ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u2	The President (in front of the standing assembly) Colleagues, on 26 March 2016, John Mangelschots, honorary member of the Chamber of Representatives, died in Antwerp. He was 88. John Mangelschots was born in the Antwerp district of Seefhoek and later moved with his family to Deurne-Noord, near the Sports Palace. On December 4, 1944, at the age of seventeen, fate struck. A V-bomb falls on the parental home and he loses his older sister and his mother. After the atheneum John Mangelschots takes two years at the Volkshoogschool and at the age of 20 he works as a head insurance agent at the Social Welfare. In 1949, he became First Secretary and then Chairman of the Young Socialists in Deurne. In 1958, John Mangelschots ran for the first time in the municipal elections in Deurne, where he was fourth on the list. He became an alderman and remained there until the end of 1983, when the merger of Deurne and Antwerp took place. In 1964, he was the foundation of the creation of the Grond- en Bouwregie, the communal land and real estate authority that built new residential districts in Deurne with 800 housing units. An industrial area for 45 SMEs was set up near the Albert Canal. The number of sports facilities quadrupled also under his mandate. He organized a series of tree plantation actions and had green areas developed where possible. In 1968, at the age of 40, he joined our assembly. For 15 years, until the end of 1982, John Mangelschots became a serious and driven MP. He was primarily active in the Committee on Public Works, Finance and Public Administration. Some of the issues that regularly reappeared in his interventions in plenary had to do with his municipal powers, such as land-use planning, housing and environmental policy. At the end of 1982 he decided no longer to hold a national political mandate and to concentrate exclusively on local politics. From 1982 to 1992, for ten years, he became president of the Antwerp Federation of the BSP. Since 1983, he has been responsible for spatial planning, housing and environmental policy in Antwerp. He takes tough measures in the areas of environmental regulations and violations. When it later turned the environment against urban heritage, it was above all to give the buildings belonging to the city a more adequate and efficient allocation. It was under his leadership that a comprehensive structure plan for the city of Antwerp was built. In his role as a sheep, our former colleague was also particularly involved in topics such as mobility, social housing and spatial planning policy. He was thus the founder and president of the Fietsoverleg, an organization for the benefit of cyclists, and he erected the development of bicycle paths as a priority for the city, through the development of a plan for the development of bicycle paths. After the end of his active political career in 1994, he continued to work for his city, his region and his party. He was a man who was full of life, a man who could see the sun shining in the water, but above all gave full meaning to the word camaraderie. For him, that meant unconditional support. In the name of the Chamber, I have expressed our sincere condolences to his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u3	Mr President, John Mangelschots was a politician who actively participated in local life. He had an innovative vision on Deurne's development. After the merger of Deurne with Antwerp, he continued his efforts to put his municipality on the map. He paid a great deal of attention to the balance between urban development and quality of life. He was determined to introduce an innovative traffic plan for Deurne as well. Later he played an important role in the construction of the Bremweide in Antwerp, a green space in an old industrial area. For fifteen years John Mangelschots sat in our assembly. During his national mandates, he has always drawn a common sense from his experiences as a local manager. Regularly, it will make interventions related to land use planning, social housing and environmental issues. Untiringly, he will bring to this House the most concrete concerns of his fellow citizens. John Mangelschots was close to the people. He put a stop to his parliamentary career in order to devote himself fully to his city. Many Antwerp people remember him as a warm and direct politician. In the name of the government, I offer my deepest condolences to his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u4	Thank you, Prime Minister. I would ask you to observe a few moments of silence in memory of the deceased colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u5	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Colleagues, on 4 April 2016 died in Jette Roger De Wulf, honorary member of the Chamber of Representatives. He was 88. Roger De Wulf was born in Vilvoorde on 5 January 1929 but moved to Machelen, where he became a member of the socialist youth movement. After his childhood he started working as an official at the National Institute for Sickness and Invalidity Insurance. He did this until 1974. During his career as an official at the RIZIV, he took his first steps in politics. In 1958 he became a city council member in Machelen for the then BSP. From 1961 he combined this with the membership of the provincial council in the then province of Brabant. In 1968, the Flemish socialists in Brussels broke off from the unitary federation and entered the election campaign with a separate electoral list. Roger De Wulf played an important role in the creation of the Red Lions, who then won an ecstatic victory. In 1971, he became a member of parliament for the province of Brabant. Three years later, he was elected to the Chamber for the electoral district of Brussels. Its focus is on internal affairs, socio-economic issues, institutional reform and, in particular, the Brussels problem. Roger De Wulf made himself known to this assembly as a politician who was both courteous and tenacious. Our former colleague has also held a number of important positions at government level. From 1976 to 1979 he was Secretary of State for Economic and Social Affairs in the governments of Tindemans II and Vanden Boeynants II. Between 1979 and 1981 he was Minister of Employment and Labour. Its main achievement was the adaptation of the system of social benefits, which also gave more rights to single people. In 1981 he received the portfolio of Health Policy in the Flemish government led by Gaston Geens. At that time, he worked in the hospital sector and, above all, in the modernisation of psychiatry. From 1988 to 1992 he was Flemish Minister of Employment. In 1983 he became mayor of Machelen, a position he held for 18 years, until the year 2000, with great dedication. During this period, he carried out numerous projects relating to the construction of social housing, the modernization of village centres, education, the development of the international industrial zoning of Diegem, linked to the airport, sociocultural association life, sports events and the consolidation of communal finances. He became a senator in 1985 and remained so until 1995. Roger De Wulf was a gentle colleague and a socially moved man. His authentic concern for the less fortunate was accompanied by a great determination and deep-rooted political conviction. I have expressed my sincere condolences to the family on behalf of our assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u6	Mr President, we should like to pay tribute to Roger De Wulf, who has left his mark on the Belgian political world. As a figurehead of the Belgian Socialist Party, Roger De Wulf was first elected to the Chamber of Representatives in 1974. He was then Secretary of State for Economic and Social Affairs and Minister for Employment and Labour. With his experience as an official at the RIZIV and his great interest in socio-economic matters, he was able to perform these functions smoothly and expertly. After the second reform of the State, he continued his career in the Flemish Executive by becoming Minister in charge of health policy in 1981. Very influential, also very attentive, it contributes to modernising the policy area of psychiatric care and services, often referred to as "middle-aged" at the time, to include it in a modern and adapted health policy. In 1988, he joined the fourth and last Flemish government led by Christian Democrat Gaston Geens as Minister of Employment. With his long political experience and strong convictions, he continued his career in the Senate until 1995. He was mayor of Machelen for almost twenty years and has certainly left his mark on his city. The development of his city was close to his heart, as evidenced by the development of the industrial area of Diegem. In 2000, Roger De Wulf said goodbye to the political world. With his death, politics loses a striking personality. On behalf of the federal government, I would like to express our condolences to his family, his former colleagues and all his fellow citizens. We wish them much courage at this difficult time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that this late colleague should also observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u8	The President (in front of the standing assembly) Dear fellow Members, also on 4 April 2016 died in Kortrijk Joseph Demeyere, former member of the Chamber of Representatives. Joseph Demeyere was born on 24 July 1936 in Roeselare as the youngest of four children. After his primary secondary education he joined the ADVV-Roeselare, where he soon became responsible for the payment of unemployment benefits. Later he became also responsible for the Social Service Department at the ADVV-Roeselare, a task which he fulfilled until his retirement. His social commitment did not stop in his professional activities. He was also chairman of the Workers' Tourist Association and the Cultural Socialist Central. Our former colleague was not known as a cock-the-front, but as a silent worker, in all modesty, as we know more West Flemish people. On 5 May 1977, elected deputy of the Belgian Socialist Party for what was then the electoral district Roulers-Tirlemont, he took an oath in the House. At the time, this implied that he would automatically become a member of what was then still known as the Cultuurraad, which in the meantime became the Flemish Parliament. He was a member of the Committee on Youth Policy, Continuing Education and Sports. On November 14, 1978, this dual term ended, but not his political career. On 3 January 1989, he sat on the municipal council of the city of Roulers. During two legislatures, he accompanied, from the benches of the opposition it is true, the transformation of his city of Roulers, which from a provincial city became an urban center in its own right. Those who have had the privilege of having known this silent power closely will remember him as a humble helper of men, a Ruslar and West Fleming: with the feet on the ground and the heart in the right place. On behalf of the Chamber, I have expressed our sincere condolences to his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u9	Mr President, today we pay tribute to Mr Joseph Demeyere, a former Member of Parliament. Joseph Demeyere is 41 years old when he becomes a representative of the Belgian Socialist Party. He'll work in the assembly discreetly, but hard. As a man on the property, he was very concerned with others. Already at a young age he started working for the ABVV, a commitment he would keep for a long time. Also present in local politics, he was known to many people in his hometown of Roulers where he sat on the communal council for many years. Joseph Demeyere died just before his 80th birthday. We'll remember him for his social commitment. He stood with both feet on the ground and close to the people. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family in these painful moments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to observe a minute's silence for this late Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u11	By letter of 18 April 2016, the Prime Minister shall transmit a copy of the Royal Decree of 18 April 2016 entitled "Government - Dismissal - Appointment'. By letter dated April 18, 2016, the Prime Minister transmitted a copy of the Royal Order of April 18, 2016, entitled "Government - Resignation - Appointment".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, the next item is the oral questions. I remind you of the Rules of Procedure: two minutes for the question, two minutes for the answer and one minute for the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this week, a great novelty in our country: a press conference by the new director of the OCAM, flanked by the Deputy Director of the Crisis Centre and a representative of the Federal Police! To say what? Are there very important elements that need to be communicated? Will the level of alerts be raised or, on the contrary, are there good news to be transmitted, particularly as regards the security of the country? Actually, nothing! A press conference is given in order not to communicate anything, but to show themselves to the media, to arouse fears and questions without any discernment. And believe that many establishments, for example in Brussels, saw booking cancellations in the evening after the press conference! There were major articles in the newspapers that were read in Belgium but also abroad. The international press has amply resumed this press conference. Is it normal to communicate on nothing? Certainly not! Moreover, if there were communications to be made on one point, they should have been made, I suppose, by the National Security Council, you and the Ministers of the Interior and Justice. Prime Minister, has this press conference been requested or authorized? Does it seem adequate to you? Are we going to attend a ritual, where every week fear is served on the daily menu? In short, have we decided to do the "Belgium bashing", the "Brussels bashing" ourselves? Have we decided ourselves to shoot ourselves in the foot? We must therefore not weep at the consequences. I look forward to your analysis of this press conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u14	Mr President, Madam Member, the press conference you are talking about is not the first of its kind. In the past and on other occasions, press conferences have been initiated by the services. To be clear, I did not, as Prime Minister, ask for this press conference. On the other hand, I have been informed of this in advance. The services considered it useful to communicate because of the many questions and questions that the press has been putting to them for the past few weeks following the tragic attacks that have struck our country. This press conference was therefore carried out by the director of the OCAM. The Director General of the Crisis Centre and a representative of the Federal Police were also present. What was that about? The aim was to explain, with the necessary serenity and setback, how the Crisis Centre sets the level of the threat and determines a number of measures implemented, including by the federal police. I'd like to be specific. When deciding to communicate, there is always the danger of not measuring the level of intensity of the message delivered. Unfortunately, communication is not an exact science. You know that, and we know that. I have therefore paid attention to the need to be particularly careful, moderate and measured when assessing, first, whether communication is necessary and useful and, second, the degree of intensity of the communication in question. Madam Member, it is also an experience for me to be confronted in recent months with this evolution of the threat in our country. We are asked – and it is quite legitimate in a democratic forum – to explain, on the one hand, the motivations for which a level is set – level 3 being a serious level – and, on the other hand, the reasons why a level is maintained. But in this case, the difficulty lies in the fact that the level is set on the basis of the information provided by the support services and that the content provided to the OCAM cannot always be fully and transparently transmitted to the media so as not to jeopardise the work of the intelligence and investigative services. These are the few pieces of information I wanted to give you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u15	Prime Minister, that's a half-goat, half-fool answer. Agree that security services have a duty to act effectively and in discretion. If there are major communications to be carried out, it is to the National Security Council to do so. As you know, the economic, social and cultural situation in Brussels, but not only, is dramatic following the lockdown, the ban on fireworks and the attacks of 22 March 2016. Tomorrow you will receive representatives of the companies. Representatives of the Region, and workers also hope to be on the side. Companies are afraid they won't be able to resist. Workers are afraid of losing their jobs. Emergency plans are released by the various authorities. Financial resources are requested. Press campaigns are being prepared to revive Brussels and, with a small press conference to say nothing, all these effects are being wiped out. This is really irresponsible! As the formula says: when you have nothing to say, you shut up and work! Prime Minister, I ask you to put our services in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u16	We all live above our stand, is an expression that will haunt you for a long time, Minister. At the end of the month, my wife is afraid to say so in silence. Yet there is another expression that will continue to haunt you, your clear, ready and full of character. A few months ago, I asked you in this place whether you, yes or no, supported the principles of the port labour law. Then you said "Cd&V" for a CD maybe that's exceptionally obvious: "Yes!" I said that I would continue to speak to you about this. This is what I am doing, Minister. Do you stand by those principles? I think so, but the question is how do you stand by these principles? In the meantime, some things have happened. We have had consultations with employers and employees. This showed that some cases were workable and others were less workable. The employers suggested that perhaps the port workers in the pool should be given the advantage of recruitment. That was a step too far, because then both Cepa's lawyers and yours said that it could not, because otherwise Europe would complain again. Where are we on the whole file? Are the structures set up by employers and employees workable or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u17	Mr Penris, I will not comment on your wife's statements, but I can confirm what I said to you at the time, namely that I remain in favour of the Major Act. We drew up an action plan in December which was delivered to the Commissioner. The Commissioner has given us until 1 July 2016 to allow it to enter into force. For me, three elements remain important to find a solution to that dossier, and I shall repeat them. Firstly, a reform of port labour, as previously agreed, is a solution to the legal problem with Europe. Secondly, the proper and efficient operation of Belgian ports must be ensured. Thirdly, a high level of social protection for port workers must be guaranteed. To this end, in silence, we have done a great deal together with the social partners, both port workers and employers, in order to find a solution. We have also worked hard on this in recent days. I have said to both employers' and employees' organisations that they are doing very well. This means that there are no raging statements in the media, that there is no polarisation, but that solutions are being sought to respond to Europe. The time runs and it gets shorter by the day, because 1 July 2016 will be there soon. Nevertheless, I have every hope that the two parties will find each other. We are doing everything we can to make that happen. I also understand that the port workers want a referendum on this issue. I respect that. The details of the questions in the referendum can only be communicated when there is an agreement, so that that referendum is concluded in a positive way. Just so we're clear, I still stand by the Major Act. I am looking for solutions to respond to Europe, and I am doing so through social dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u18	Minister, you almost reassure me. I'll give you one more suggestion. There are establishment laws in Europe and in our country. If you want to open a pharmacy, you can't do it until you have a degree from a pharmacist. You should not become a doctor until you have a doctor's degree. One can only become a lawyer if one has the lawyer's diploma, and if one also meets some additional conditions. Well, why should we not propose to Europe that we also award a diploma to our dock workers? I'll give you an idea. Let us place the dock workers at the level of our pharmacists, doctors and lawyers. They deserve this and in practice this is already happening, because they are going to the small school, the training centre for port workers. Mr Minister, let the diploma awarded there be decisive. I think that's gonna get us a long way. Minister, I will give you all the advice in this regard. I'll give my idea to the Cepa and to all the people I know in the unions. But, Minister, please do not call it the Penris Act, because I know what the port workers will do with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u19	Mr Minister, yesterday and the day before yesterday I took part in trade union demonstrations. (roaring and laughter)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u20	(...): Why not today?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u21	No demonstrations are planned today. [[again noise and laughter]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u22	Thousands of workers have come to the streets, and they were all talking about one thing: a minister dared to say that we all live above our standards in Belgium. A minister would have dared to say that everyone in the country deserved more than enough. A minister would have dared to say that he was the social face of this government. All these workers, including many people from the ACV, Mr. Minister, had heard about that minister and also knew who he was talking about. Who would have dared say that? Mr. Peeters! What anger, what a disappointment to the workers of this country: the social face of this government would have dared say that we all live above our standards in this country! You went even further, Mr Peeters. You even said that the various budgetary controls from the past were a finger exercise and that you will only have to cut deep in July. In short, an index jump is a finger exercise for you? Working up to 67 years is a finger exercise? Long-term bullying sick people is a finger exercise? As of July, it will be serious and you will go further. Minister, you will have felt in recent days that the workers of this country do not accept this. What they think is even worse is that you are coming up with a plan that goes even further against their interests. Your Peeters plan aims to make people work up to 45 hours a week, nine hours a day, while they fought a hundred years ago for the eight-hour day. My question to you is very clear, Minister. Do you agree that in the coming weeks nothing should be taken away from the workers, and that it is time to get everything from those who have money, from the millionaires of this country, because we have already paid enough?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u23	Mr President, I shall begin by quoting what you have said so that it is clear what you have said and what the commotion has been about. You literally said: 'The unemployed, the workers, the pensioners, the wealthy': my point is that we all live above our standards. All of us. Those were your words. There has been a lot of reaction to that. Apparently, you didn't miss that, because you're shocked. You posted a text on Facebook. Let me quote you again: 'If I have given people who are struggling the impression that I am not on their side, then I regret that and then I speak against it with great emphasis. The opposite is true. Happy, Kris Peeters. In other words, Minister, you say that you are on the side of the people. You have also read the responses that have been received. I won't read them, but the conclusion is clear. The conclusion is that people no longer believe you, and I understand that. Let me give you three examples. First of all, last year you had people turn in 2% in wages and benefits and you raised the retirement age to 67 years. There has been a great deal of protest and you have already made it clear that you are not on their side. Secondly, now you're abolishing the 38-hour week. It is sold nicely: longer working in winter, more staying home in summer. Do you really think, Minister, that people believe that the workers believe that they can decide for themselves? It will ultimately be the employer who decides. The only thing your measure will do is to make people work more for less wages. They won't be paid any more overtime for the extra hours. That will be the result of your measure. At the same time, you say, "I'm on your side." Thirdly, parents who want to ask for leave for a sick child will have to count on the goodwill of their colleagues, the government will no longer intervene. You leave them to their fate and you say: draw your plan, I am on your side. Obviously, you're not on their side. Mr Minister, the workers, pensioners and the sick in our country do not live above their standards. People are wondering when you're going to get the money from the big fraudsters and the big assets that the tax authorities in our country do not have to pay taxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Kitir, for the record, it was certainly not my intention to point the finger at people personally, but to define the seriousness of the situation very clearly. The seriousness of this situation is budgetary................................................................................................................................................................................ I'm worried about that solidarity. I'm also concerned about the following. Two hundred thousand pensioners will be added in the following years, and I am concerned about that. We have a budgetary challenge and I do not want to refer to the Planning Bureau or others, who say that we still have to look for 3 to 4 billion to be in balance by 2018. That is a very important challenge. I wanted to give you that concern. I have also, as you rightly say, corrected some Sundays, because anyone who has read the interview in full has also read that I am talking about justice, about the equitable distribution of efforts. I also made a plea, like my party, to continue working on a dual income tax. I have received a lot of e-mails and tweets, and I hope that this will be made clear once again, so that everyone knows what I wanted to say. Mr Hedebouw and Mr Kitir, you refer to the proposal on workable and manoeuvrable work. We have opted for a very intelligent approach with a pedestal containing a number of elements, such as the 38-hour week and the five training days, and a menu from which the sectors can choose. With regard to the 38-hour week, I believe that the truth is wronged. Firstly, the 38-hour week is calculated on a quarterly basis and it can already be done on an annual basis. You can do that by a royal decree or a collective agreement. I have here the list of all collective agreements and royal decisions that have been concluded. Well 1 093 405 employees already work in a system that calculates the 38-hour week on an annual basis. I agree that we are taking this away from the social partners, who have negotiated it in certain circumstances, but we are giving a lot of information through the menu from which they can choose. Those one million people who are now covered can then combine work with their families and so on, and that will now be done on an annual basis. Mrs Kitir, I do not know if you know page 96 of the Di Rupo government's coalition agreement. It says that the 38-hour week must be cancelled, spread on an annual basis. The consultation has ensured that one million people are already covered. We're gonna go for that cancelation. This was also stated in the previous government agreements and also on page 96 of Elio Di Rupo's coalition agreement. What we discussed in the government was sent to the Group of Ten. It will respond to that and we await their response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u25	Mr President, Minister, the first thing you should have said is that not everyone in Belgium is above his standards. That has to be said. The majority of Belgians do not live above their standards and work hard today. There should be no prune in that. What you are afraid to say is that it is time to cut down on those who really live above their standards. That's what this is about. You can get 940 million from the multinationals and the millionaires, but you don't. You don't, but you're here to take it out of our pockets. That's what this is about. You're talking about consultation. This is the third time that CD&V tries to make us believe that she is willing to negotiate and says: "Give us something and then we'll get something else with a tax shift, give us something and then we'll get something from the negotiations." Now it's really over. That's what I felt at the demonstration yesterday. Eight thousand people in the streets of Brussels clearly felt that this time it will not take any more. This time they won't have us anymore. If CD&V is trying to make us believe that she is the social face of the government, it is time we took our destiny into our own hands and mobilize ourselves against this government not to take those measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u26	Mr President, Minister, this is beyond my head. Maybe you should explain it again, because I don't get it. You say that more than one million employees are already in that system today. So you can do it today, but you want to change something. That's not an explanation, is it? I repeat, it is possible today and it was also in the Di Rupo coalition agreement to which you refer. If it is amended, it will be amended through social consultation. You can imagine: we can all stay home when it's summer and we can all work longer when it's winter and it's raining. I repeat the question. Do you really think that the workers in this country believe that they can decide when to stay at home and when not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u27	What about the one million employees?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u28	This has been done in social consultation, Mr Peeters. This means that they have had a say, and that is what changes you. You're intellectually unfair.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u29	On a sectoral level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u30	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Tuesday 22 March was a black day for our country. We were badly hit by terror. There were a lot of victims. The human consequences were immense. Meanwhile, we're a month ahead and there are other consequences. There's a heavy economic impact. After the terrorist attacks, we find that our country has been hit for a second time. My heart bleeds for a second time. Restaurants and shops, especially in Brussels and in the rest of the country, suffer from these attacks and their consequences. Because of fear and mistrust, consumers stay away. Comeos estimates that, as a result of the terrorist attacks last year, the economy has fallen to one fifth. This is an impact of 80% for our trade and catering in Brussels and the surrounding region. That's huge! However difficult and complex it may be to respond to the consequences of terrorism, we really must not let ourselves be allowed to do so. I therefore call on everyone in our country to take a positive approach and to embrace our country and its capital Brussels positively and to highlight it in the press. We must also embrace positively the inhabitants of Brussels, its catering, trade and economy. The impact on the economic tissue is considerable. I therefore believe that, in addition to a positive and hopeful approach, to which we can all contribute, a number of support measures are necessary for the economy. Minister, do you already have a clear view of the realistic economic impact of the terrorist attacks? What is the real economic impact? Will you take more support measures in relation to catering, commerce and the economy, now that the need is really high? Just after the attacks, you announced that companies would be given the option of invoking temporary unemployment for reasons of force majeure. Will you also consider other measures to encourage the economy, commerce and the catering industry?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u31	Minister, we still have in mind the terrible attacks on 22nd March that have shaken our country. The Zaventem airport and the heart of Brussels were targeted and were hit with full whips. In the wake of this unprecedented human tragedy in the history of our country, our capital is experiencing a second economic and social tragedy. Indeed, we are talking about a threat of 10,000 jobs lost. We are talking about a tsunami in the tourism sector and the Brussels Horeca, following cancellations of reservations and the decline in attendance following the attacks. The decrease in turnover is estimated at 40% for these sectors of activity, with peaks at 80% for some establishments. Brussels therefore calls for aid to all its forces and for a further appeal to all politicians, regardless of their level of power. Minister, I hope and I am even convinced that you will not remain insensitive or deaf to this call. Will you go beyond the measures you have already announced, such as the recourse to economic unemployment for the days of forced closure and the postponement of the contributions and payment of VAT for the Brussels Horeca? These measures are necessary, but not sufficient. What concrete measures do you intend to take as well? What budget will be allocated by the federal government to support this economic sector? We have recently learned that the Brussels government is putting EUR 20 million on the table. What budget will the federal government spend on this? Do you intend to propose a comprehensive recovery plan for Brussels? A large-scale promotion campaign is needed. Can you act in this direction with your Brussels colleagues, as all the actors and sectors involved demand?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u32	Mijnheer de voorzitter, mevrouw Smaers, mijnheer Vanden Burre, you're right. The situation is dramatic, particularly in Brussels, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises and the horeca sector. Didier Reynders, within the government, called for a task force. It is Didier Reynders, who has proposed to the federal government to organise a task force with the ministers concerned in order to gather all the forces and consult with the sectors concerned as soon as possible. That will happen tomorrow. Tomorrow we will consult with 40 representatives, together with the ministers concerned, and we will publish and launch a number of initial measures. Mrs. Smaers, you're right. The impact is enormous. I hope that your call, which I fully share, will be heard, to promote a better image through support from the beautiful capital of our country together far beyond. We will also take additional initiatives to this end at the right time. In my capacity as Minister of Economy, I have asked the FPS Economy for an impact study. Figures are always very important, to know how heavy the impact is. I have been promised that I can expect or get the first results by June 2016. I have already asked for a study on the increase in the terrorist threat level by the end of 2015. This has shown that the retail sectors in Brussels have achieved up to 17% less turnover. That percentage is likely to be much higher now. I have also made it very clear, as Minister for Employment, that we will apply the temporary unemployment scheme for reasons of force majeure and temporary unemployment very smoothly for economic reasons. At least until 30 April 2016, the attacks of 22 March 2016 are unconditionally accepted by the RVA as an argument. From 1 May 2016, the employers located outside the Brussels Region or Flemish Brabant must provide a description of the reasons for force majeure. We have already received many reports, i.e. a total of 2 700 reports of force majeure due to 1 020 different employers. Before March 2016 alone there were 1 502 notifications. In normal circumstances, there are, to give you an example, a hundred or two hundred. That's the situation. Mr Vanden Burre, the situation is indeed dramatic. That is why we decided to organise a task force. Measures will be implemented tomorrow. I have already had the opportunity to explain to the Minister of Employment who I am the important steps that needed to be taken. I hope that we will be able to give the capital a new dynamism and help the companies to survive in these difficult circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I think it's really time for the task force. I am confident that this can be tackled properly, with the necessary support measures. The image of Brussels and of our country needs to be enhanced. We all have a task in this, not just the ministers and the government. We must all be positive and hopeful about our country and our capital. I thank you for the existing support measures; given the very heavy impact of the terrorist attacks, additional measures will certainly have to be taken. Let us continue to work and, above all, embrace the economy, trade and catering and not let us do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answers. You're announcing a task force, but you're repeating the measures you've already announced. I don't want to argue, but I'm still a little hungry. As you said, as Mrs Smaers, Brussels is your capital, it is our capital, it is the capital of all the people who are present in this House. We must all work together to ensure that our capital rises, that the image of Brussels is renown abroad, in a word, we are all Brussels! I really call for a sacred union, no matter what the political parties, the levels of power, we must be able to put resources in place. I haven't heard of means today, Mr. Peeters. I am counting on you to ensure that there is a sacred union with the Brussels Region, with the actors on the ground, with the company, with the social sectors in Brussels, so that the capital can be raised together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u35	Mr Minister, we will shortly be discussing in plenary the report of the special committee responsible for monitoring the Dieselgate dossier. That committee was called together in response to the scam at Volkswagen. Just today, news is popping up in the media that the software is still being tampered with, this time at the Opel Zafira. For example, following a study carried out by the VRT, it was found that nitrogen oxide emissions from an Opel Zafira would have fallen dramatically after a visit to the dealer. Of course, that raises a number of questions, Minister. On 22 January 2016, you immediately commissioned the Economic Inspectorate to conduct an investigation at Opel. In the meantime, we've been on for some time. Can you give me an update on that investigation? New facts are emerging now. Apparently, even now, changes are being made to the software. Those are new elements. Will they also be included in the ongoing investigation? Finally, one of the important recommendations of the Dieselgate Committee is to draw up a code of conduct. It can be drawn up in conjunction with the sector so that commitments can be made, including on the information to be given to consumers. After all, this is a serious gap: the consumer gives his car to the dealer, after which adjustments are made to the car. In fact, the consumer has no knowledge of this. However, that is very crucial. That is why I would like to know whether there has been any consultation with the car sector. What steps will you take to draw up such a code of conduct?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u36	Mr President, Mr Dierick, as regards research and the new elements, I understand that these new elements have been brought to the attention of the Economic Inspectorate, which is still fully investigating whether they are misleading consumers and whether certain actions should be taken at the market or other level. It is very important for me as the Minister responsible for Consumers that the consumer is properly informed when buying a car. Where there are subsequent maintenance interventions, it should also be clearly communicated. The customer must be informed accordingly. I come to your second question on the code of conduct I have announced. We have had several meetings with FEBIAC and TRAXIO. Today we have a draft code of conduct which clearly states that consumers should be better informed about the updates and their consequences. If you take your Audi A6 to the garage and make changes to the software, you must know it and you must also provide text and explanation. We are now going to finalise this code of conduct as quickly as possible. There are still some questions about the technical feasibility and the way in which this should be done in concrete terms. We are also in the process of involving the Car-Pass, so that second-hand vehicles are immediately included in the code of conduct. The Economic Inspectorate is therefore fully engaged in the investigation and has received the new elements. As soon as that investigation is over, I will give you the text and explanation. We have a first draft of the code of conduct on software adaptation. So we'll be able to close this short.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for the positive elements in your reply. There has been very firm action and these new elements have been immediately passed on to the Economic Inspectorate. Besides, you're working on a code of conduct. There has been consultation with the sector and there is a draft. That is, of course, very good. Minister, buying a car is a very important decision. One doesn't do that every day, it happens purposefully. It is therefore very important to have good contact with the dealer and to have confidence in him. Consumers must be given clear information on the characteristics of the car. There is absolutely no way that the characteristics of that car can be changed just behind his back. So we really insist that you, as Minister of Consumer Affairs, take the necessary steps to ensure that consumers are protected as far as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u38	So far, the questions to Minister Peeters. Minister Jambon, as has been said in the Conference of Presidents, will not be able to be here until 16:00. I understand that the Minister of Finance will reply instead of Minister Jambon. I invite Mr Van Overtveldt to sit next to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u39	Mr President, I understand that Mr Jambon would be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u40	Yeah, from 16:00. But if I do the math like that, we won't make it. I think we should not wait unless you want to put your question completely at the end. Then I'd like to take the risk. However, he must come from Luxembourg; the chances of him being on time are small. This is the request of a member of the German government to close Doel 3 and Tihange 2. There are six questions on this subject. Can you live with that, Mr. Thiébaut?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u41	Mr. Chairman, I am surprised that Minister Jambon cannot answer the questions that have been addressed to him when this is a very difficult issue. However, we were told that he should be present in this Parliament after 4:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u42	His arrival is actually announced from 4:00 p.m. As far as I am concerned, I am prepared to postpone the questions until later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u43	Mr President, I believe that Mr Thiébaut's concern is entirely legitimate. As has been said, the Minister's arrival is announced after 4:00 p.m.; if so, as far as the matter under his responsibility is concerned, it would be normal for him to respond personally to the questions addressed to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u44	The announcement was made yesterday in the Conference of Presidents. I am ready to wait for the end of current issues. We will then see if the minister is actually present. As everyone knows, Mr Jambon is currently participating in the informal European Council in Luxembourg. So what do we do? Wait? I do notice that the Ministers None, Vandeput and Bellot are not present. Mrs. Sleurs is here. If you wish, we can proceed immediately to the questions addressed to Mrs Sleurs. However, Mr Janssens is not present. I suggest we just finish the agenda. Minister Van Overtveldt will reply instead of Minister Jambon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u45	Mr President, I once again regret the absence of the Minister of the Interior on such an important issue: the nuclear safety of our country. Minister, cracks, sabotage, fire, breakdowns, this is a series of words that we would certainly never have wanted to see associated with our nuclear power plants in Belgium. And yet, repeated incidents have been reported in the press for months, with such frequency that, in the end, they have even managed to worry our neighbouring countries. It is now the German Minister of the Environment who is asking, no more or less, to temporarily close the cracked plants of Tihange 2 and Doel 3. The point is that this request is made even though we know that there have been meetings between the German authorities and the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control, regular meetings since January. Despite this, the Agency has failed to convince the German Independent Nuclear Safety Commission that reactors are sufficiently safe in the event of a failure. This is all the more worrying because they are German experts, whose know-how and knowledge are certainly no longer to be demonstrated in industrial and technological matters. Minister, what answers are you going to give to the German government? Or rather, what answer will your colleague give to the German government? Will you agree to conduct the additional examinations requested by Germany? In its statement yesterday, the Agency seems to question the attitude of the Germans. This is also a question and one that deserves to be explained. Are there problems of cooperation between the German authorities and the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control? Finally, why not propose to the German Government to set up a group, composed of German and Belgian experts, to jointly examine our nuclear reactors and restore confidence in Belgium in the nuclear field?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u46	Mr President, Minister, as you know, the German government is calling for the temporary closure of Doel 3 and Tihange 2. For the German Nuclear Control Agency, several questions regarding the safety of these two reactors have not yet received a satisfactory response from the Belgian authorities. In addition, it is seeking additional testing to ensure that both facilities are safe. In a press release, AFCN soon responded to this request by responding that it was "always ready to collaborate with its German counterparts, as it collaborates with the other countries - France, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Luxembourg", but adding "provided that on the German side there is a willingness to cooperate constructively". Minister, I believe that the greatest caution is required in this matter. The AFCN cannot sweep German questions from the back of its hand or, let alone, allow itself to insinuate that the German position is not constructive. The conclusion of the AFCN communiqué therefore seems totally inappropriate to me. In this respect, it would be wise to take stock of the audit in question in the nuclear safety sub-committee. Minister, I would like you to be able to provide us with the report of the German Security Authority on Doel 3 and Tihange 2 and the letter that the German Minister would have sent. What are you going to say to him? Will you ask AFCN to analyse with the necessary rigour and seriousness the treatment of such an important subject as the position of the German Security Agency?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u47	The Minister responsible for the Ad interim Nuclear Safety, we have a fairly significant phenomenon, in particular thousands of cracks in the reactor vessels of two of the largest Belgian nuclear power stations, Objectives 3 and Tihange 2. Mr Thiébaut can agree, we have been discussing this for three or four years. The nuclear power stations have been shut down for a long time. They were restarted. Problems have resurfaced and they have now been restarted. Many scientists have questioned the decision of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. They said it wasn't a good idea for us to take a chance. Now there is a very important signal, in particular the signal from the German Government. Mr Van Overtveldt, nuclear safety is not your core business, but I think you are also aware that it is an exceptional signal, an exceptional démarche. No state government, but the German national government, through the Minister, has stated that there is no confidence in the safety of two Belgian nuclear reactors. They do this not on the basis of fabrications, rumors, Greenpeace reports, but on the basis of cross-inspections and investigations. They've done their homework. Don't answer their question of stopping, just stepping over it, that would be an act of inappropriate governance. I ask you, because you represent the government here today, to send a clear signal that you have heard the German cry for help and that we will work in such a sensitive matter in a serious way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u48	Minister, I would also like to take stock with you of this request by Mrs Hendricks, the German Federal Minister for the Environment, addressed to Mr Jambon, to close the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 power stations. The problems related to cracks are not new. We've already discussed it. Above all, AFCN had given the green light last November for the reactivation of these plants following numerous debates that had taken place. These debates have been particularly virulent in my region, surrounding the Land of North Rhine-Westphalia, from which Mrs Hendricks came. The pressure must be strong on his side in order to answer this question of safety at our two plants. Steps had been taken between the German Government and the Belgian Government, represented by Mr Jambon and Mrs Hendricks, to make contradictory checks, which led to Mrs Hendricks' position. What's our reaction going to be? How can we respond to these allegations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u49	Mr Minister, it is a bit difficult, because I had really addressed my question to the other minister. You're here ad interim. I will address myself to the government, and you are the personification of it. My fellow Members have already mentioned it: the German Minister for Energy has asked our country to close the two nuclear power stations Tihange 2 and Objective 3, because there is no longer any confidence in their safety. What does the German nuclear watchdog say, the German FANC? He concludes in his report, more or less literally quoted, because in translation, the safety of the two crack reactors is not sufficiently guaranteed in the case of breakdowns. Mr Minister, we do know something about the breakdowns we had in all our power stations, namely in March 2014, on 5 August 2014, on 13 August 2014, on 19 August 2015, on 19 September 2015 and so on. Just this morning we were informed that Target 1 will remain stationary until May 31st. It is about two specific power stations, but let us look at the total nuclear park. Minister, what does our government say to the German minister? Nothing, nada. The government, which is not shy of a few agreements, the government, which very quickly draws general conclusions, the government, which yesterday, through the Minister, said that it does not need a pv to act and react, does not now respond to a question from the German minister. It is a question of security! In fact, the government ignores the call for caution, the call for preventive action and to act tout court. Minister, we have to establish that our power stations are not 100% safe. What other arguments do you need? They're not 100% safe and they're not safe. I'll give you another argument. The Elia report we received this morning says that there will be security of supply until 2022. So we need to invest in alternatives by then. Mr. Secretary, you're not doing that at all. Have you seen the report of the German Nuclear Safety Commission? What was the answer to the Minister? If you keep the power stations open, what is the safety response? What is the state of play in the nuclear safety plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u50	Mrs. Temmerman, no one has spoken here for three minutes today. You do. We'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u51	Mr President, I would like to say that I would like to address the question to the Minister responsible at 4:00 p.m. You promised me I could. That minister isn't here. You measure in two sizes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u52	No, no. Mr Wilrycx, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u53	Mr Minister, the debate on nuclear power plants, and in particular its safety, has, of course, been going on for many years. It's not new. Our committee and the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety have always taken it to heart. The many hearings we have had there, with Minister Jambon and with the FANC, showed that the world's largest specialists and most renowned institutes are also involved and that the FANC has based its decision on the opinions expressed by the specialists. Another reason for this debate was the cross-inspections, which we agreed with our neighbouring countries. With the Netherlands and France, we already made this a little longer and in February the agreement was made with Germany to exchange data with each other in working groups, to cooperate transparently and to point out any difficulties or problems. That's good. It only improves safety. If there are certain questions arising from these cross-inspections, such as the visit of the German nuclear watchdog, then it is necessary to pay due attention to them. The German watchdog has some comments, in particular on the resistance of reactor walls at the start-up of Target 3 and Tihange 2. The FANC responded yesterday that the German watchdog did not bring forward any new elements and that it should not take the comments directly into consideration because they were examined. Is it true, Minister, that the FANC's research results are being questioned by the German watchdog? Will the FANC go into that? Will it do any additional research? If not, will you invite the FANC to explain this? Can we hear the agency here in Parliament about this? Have you been in contact with Minister Hendricks, who has raised the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Security and Home Affairs takes note of the statements made by his German colleague, Mrs Hendricks. These statements occur despite a meeting between the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control (AFCN), the Bundesministerium für Umwelt (BMU) and the Reaktor-Sicherheitskommission (RSK). The meeting was held on 5 and 6 April 2016 in Brussels as part of a closer collaboration with Germany, as agreed in February between Minister Jambon and Minister Hendricks. It was intended to exchange information on certain current issues, including certainly Doel 3 and Tihange 2. At the initiative of the Agency, discussions were extended in order to answer all the additional questions raised by the German delegation. According to the Agency, these issues did not, at any time, call into question its findings and there was never any discussion of new elements that the Agency would not have taken into account in its in-depth analysis of Doel 3 and Tihange 2. Its position remains the same: Doel 3 and Tihange 2 plants meet the most stringent safety requirements and there is currently no reason to shut down these plants from a nuclear safety point of view. As a reminder, as a result of the discovery of hydrogen microbulles in the walls of the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactor tanks, the Agency has put in place an extensive process of analysis, with a view to collecting the opinions of various highly specialized and internationally recognized experts and laboratories. Based on objective data, controls and analytical results, the Agency concluded that the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactors could be operated safely. This conclusion was also validated by the Belgian and foreign experts consulted by the Agency. Last January, the Agency invited foreign security authorities to a two-day international workshop on the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 nuclear reactor tanks. About 50 experts from 15 countries participated in the workshop, including Germany, as well as experts from the European Union, the Nuclear Energy Agency and the International Atomic Energy Agency. The German delegation had already formulated a series of questions, to which the Agency replied in detail in writing in a document sent on 18 February. These responses are also available on the Agency's website. The FANC is always willing to continue to work constructively with its German colleagues, as is the case with the French, Dutch, Swiss and Luxembourg colleagues. On 6 April last, German and Luxembourg experts visited the Tihange plant, where they were able to see improvements to the stress test, such as the flood wall and the new full-scope simulator. We continue to support our proposal to go even further than that visit and to work out a programme of cross-inspections, in which German and Belgian inspectors participate in each other's inspection and inspection visits. In Belgium, the nuclear safety authority, the FANC, is an independent body with the power to take decisions on nuclear safety without intervention by the government. We see no reason to doubt his expertise and judgment. In Germany, however, the nuclear safety authority is part of the Ministry, where the Minister is directly involved in the decisions of the Safety Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u55	Minister, thank you for your explanation. You said a few things, but we didn't learn much about what we read in the press and the information we took to the left and to the right. The policy of the Minister of the Interior with regard to nuclear safety has always been, since he was appointed Minister, to state that he systematically referred to it in the opinion of the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control. This is a sound position when this opinion is not systematically challenged by other bodies. In the case of Tihange 2 and Doel 3, you talked about the opinion of Belgian and international experts who had been handed over in order to convince the Agency to give its approval. Among these opinions, we already found the contrary opinion of an expert. Today, we have a contrary opinion from a German federal agency. This one tells us that security is not guaranteed. We still have another opinion. Today, the government should simply seek an opinion different from that of the Agency. It could go through, for example, the International Atomic Energy Agency, or other bodies with the necessary expertise at the international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u56	Minister, I want to start my reply to the way you started your answer. You take note of the elements, but that does not reassure us. We asked for background documents. For now, you have not guaranteed us that we will receive them. This is the Minister's letter, and the government's response to it. All the information you mentioned in your reply was contained in the AFCN press release issued yesterday. We and the people were waiting for a political response commensurate with the importance of nuclear security. Frankly, I'm disappointed. Our German colleagues tell us that there are still many questions. Don't be a deaf ear! If you do this, we will not be reassured as to the continuation of the events.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u57	Minister, it is difficult for me to blame you personally, since you did not write the answer yourself, but allow me to say that the answer is not very meaningful. Let me also say that, frankly, I do not understand the attitude of our government on this issue. Mr Reynders, you know diplomacy and foreign policy well enough, you also have enough contact with your German colleagues to know that they are not sending such a signal. A German minister says that nuclear safety in Belgium is not satisfactory and asks after looking at the reports to shut down the reactors. Your colleagues in the government say that they do not take account of the Germans, who exaggerate, and that they continue on the basis of their reports. I don't understand that. That's an act of inappropriate governance. Mr Jambon said yesterday on another subject that he would not wait for the problems to get worse. But as far as nuclear safety is concerned, the problems must be real before action is taken. Finally, next week we will have another debate on Objective 1 and Objective 2. Mr President of the Chamber, I am sorry that our engineers and energy companies are wasting so much energy on patching up the old nuclear power stations and on nasty incidents. That is energy that we should spend on another energy future. In Germany, that was understood.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u58	Mr President, Mr Calvo, to date in Germany nine reactors are still in operation. Germany has taken the same decisions as our government, namely to get out of nuclear power in 2025. Being of German-speaking culture, I like to take Germany as an example, but, on the other hand, we must also nuance things. Minister, I will have another reading grid for your answers. I would add that the slightest reply could be different if Mr. Jambon were present. I understand that the conflicting controls continue to be carried out by both Germany and the other neighbouring countries. Collaboration usually happens well, including with Germany, which I stress, and that is what I have been told about. We will still have an opportunity to discuss it in committee and to reflect on the establishment of a necessary European nuclear control authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u59	Mr Minister, we have just received the message that Objective 3 is also slowing down. Target 1 was already dead. Is there anything else you need to do? The answer of the government, Minister, is really not very good. I can reassure my fellow Members. The chairman of the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety, our colleague Peter Vanvelthoven, will invite the German authorities so that we can hold a controversial debate and see where it stands. Minister, I would ask you to pass on the following to your colleague. At one of the committee meetings on nuclear safety, Minister Jambon compared a nuclear power plant with a car. Well, it's not because everything goes electronically and every now and then a light starts to light, he said, that one has to get rid of his car immediately. In other words, we should not close down nuclear power stations. Mr Minister, not only are all the lights starting to ring, now there is also a very competent garagist who warns us to get rid of our car, because he is no longer safe. Well, I suggest that you also draw that conclusion for the nuclear power plants and finally close them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. The most important element of your explanation came at the end of it, namely that the FANC is an independent organisation. Indeed, we have always experienced that the FANC could do its job independently of the government and independently of politics. That's also the best guarantee that he's doing his job right. The FANC considered that Objective 3 and Tihange 2 could be reopened. It has called in Oak Ridge, the most renowned agency in America, among others. I believe that we can have confidence in the FANC, and I would like to reaffirm this for our group. It is, of course, important that certain concerns or difficulties emerge from the agreed cross-inspections, that there should be good communication with those other countries, that the problems should be solved among the different nuclear watchdogs and that there should be no concern at government level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u61	Mr President, Minister, my question is about road safety, in particular about the hallucinatory figures on escape offences. I know I could have asked the Minister of Mobility my question in principle, but I would like to give the new Minister of Mobility his honeymoon. I am convinced that I will receive a very effective and effective response from the Minister of Justice. Minister, the figures are captivating: 12 hit-and-run cases a day in an accident involving injured persons, 205 hit-and-run cases in an accident involving tin can damage. A car seems to be a weapon in many cases. There is a lack of driving behaviour on the part of some people, but there is also a lack of follow-up to penalties and fines. A hearing by this Parliament shows that in 2012 no less than EUR 628 million in fines were collected from both the police and the correctional penalties. A police judge is often mild for people who drive without insurance when applying the minimum penalty. Crime pays for that minimum fine, which is 100 euros, times the odds. This is often cheaper than paying the insurance premium itself. I think it's time for a change. The feeling of impunity, the negative and disastrous spiral, must be reversed as a matter of urgency. I know that you are aware of the problem, in accordance with your statement at the State General for Road Safety, which I would like to endorse. However, we must not remain in the phase of talking. We need the stage of action. From Flanders you were reached by Minister Ben Weyts about modernising the driving examination and driving training. I'm rounding up. We don't need any more studies. We must stop wiping and weighing. It is your party colleague who implemented it in Articles 24 and 25 on 18 July 1990. When does the driver's license end up with points? Twenty-two European countries have shown it to us. What about the cooperation between Justice, Home Affairs and Mobility? What about the linking of the Mercury database and the MACH database? Are you prepared to adjust the penalty measures and finally reach the introduction of the driving licence with points?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u62	Of course, I fully agree with Mr Van den Bergh's proposals on the hit-and-run and confiscation. Flight crime usually masks doping, booze, no insurance or no driver's license. It is clear that we must punish this more severely. Now that's a maximum of two years. We must be able to make a declaration, even if it does not concern the person's own vehicle or equivalent if that vehicle has already been sold, or even after three months of decay and not after six months of decay. Moreover, your question about Mercury is justified. I invested EUR 500 000 in this. The first tests will take place in October. The intention is therefore that the police can no longer be fooled with regard to the effective possession and the non-repealment of the driver's driving licence. As far as the limitation period is concerned, I am pleased to note that Mr Van den Bergh is proposing to extend it to three years. We're in favour of the driver's license with points. You have seen in the States-General that I still had to show some conviction with regard to the Minister for Mobility. However, we are moving forward. The Working Party between Home Affairs, Mobility and Justice is functioning well. You know it's not my nature to study long, but to go quickly. So you can expect to have draft laws soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u63	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your very constructive reply. I look forward with interest to the draft laws. The most important thing is that we are responding to the culprits and I think that the ultimate remedy there will often be the driving licence with points. Let's go for it to the full. It is the duty of this Parliament to save lives, and this can be done perfectly through the driving licence with points.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u64	Mr President, Minister, yesterday morning in the Defence Committee, you answered various questions relating to Operation Vigilant Guardian. It is an opportunity for the Reform Movement to recall its satisfaction with the smooth running of this operation conducted every day by the military and to emphasize their professionalism. Members must be aware of the general public's recognition of the services they perform on a daily basis. However, Mr.Minister, recent statements made by Colonel Bart Laurent, who is responsible for this operation, are of concern to us. Indeed, the military considers that through this static mission, they are potential targets and could therefore easily be attacked. Mr. Minister, should we not look at a change in the way this monitoring mission is implemented in order to limit the risk to our members?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u65	Dear colleague, I would like to thank you for your appreciation of the work done by our soldiers on the streets today. Be aware that an ongoing evaluation is being conducted with the objective of finding the most effective means of defence support to the police. As head of operations, Colonel Laurent should know. In any case, I can confirm that within the National Security Council, decisions have already been taken on how the forces are deployed on the streets. For example, in Liège and Brussels, joint patrols involving police and military personnel are organised. With regard to the port of Antwerp, reinforcements were requested in order to exercise the controls. Drones are now deployed in place of the 140 surveillance personnel. In summary, ongoing research is being carried out to make the service as effective as possible. That said, the military are not police officers. In doing so, they do not perform the tasks that are specifically the responsibility of the police. They work with their own means and by following their own procedures. That is a difference that should be stressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u66	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is of course a matter for us to continue this mission and to improve it. The goal is to make it more effective. As I have already said, a good initiative – that is, the deployment of the military on the street to secure sensitive places – should not be transformed, by a perverse effect, into a danger for those soldiers who are responsible for ensuring our security. I'm glad to hear that you'll see to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u67	I welcome the new Minister of Mobility. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u68	Minister, allow me to extend my congratulations to you! As a welcome gift, you will be plunged into the arena, during questions of the current day. Mr Minister, yesterday, the airports of Liège and Charleroi had to be closed for several hours due to the lack of air traffic controllers available in the control towers. This seems to me completely surreal and unacceptable, for both travellers and airlines, not to mention the economic impacts. Belgocontrol has therefore proved totally incapable of carrying out its tasks, obviously due to deplorable management. In fact, Belgocontrol was not able to carry out the necessary recruitments in time. This happens in a context that is not the first episode, since last week it was the Zaventem airport that was paralysed as a result of a very bad social concertation and an unacceptable strike. Belgocontrol was also unable to prevent a whole series of technical incidents – controllers, pilots report it – including computer problems, resulting in aircraft disappearing from control screens. Therefore, a series of questions arise in relation to management. But it's more serious, minister! This is more serious because yesterday it was quite possible to keep the opening of regional airports open. There is a procedure that allows CANAC 2, the National Air Control Centre, to regain control over air traffic control in place of the control towers. Had this procedure been operated yesterday, and despite the absence of the controllers at the Liège and Charleroi towers, the airport could have operated at 50%. Belgocontrol has not taken the decision to operate this procedure! However, it was up to the Belgocontrol management to do so! Therefore, Mr Minister, why did Belgocontrol not operate this procedure? Why did Belgocontrol not do anything to prevent airport paralysis?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u69	Mr President, Minister, I welcome you to our Chamber. I think you're going to bring some relief from what we've been through lately. I would like to ask you about this situation after the attacks, with the strike we had in Brussels-National. This forced stop at Walloon airports casts doubt on the ability of Belgocontrol's management to anticipate the structural reforms needed to carry out its tasks. The manager of Charleroi airport refers to the possibility of compensation for the commercial and financial damage suffered. The lack of staff has, of course, economic consequences in terms of image, but it also concerns the physical integrity and life of passengers and staff. Exhausted or ill controllers must take responsibility for taking off and landing aircraft in deplorable conditions, which are so complex that it seems that an airport controller cannot replace an airport controller at his feet. The Belgian Cockpit Association, representing the pilots, said that the shortage of staff is now a real safety problem. Mr Minister, structural solutions are needed in the short term. Are you going to implement Plan B as a matter of urgency requested by the CEO of Charleroi Airport, i.e. to establish greater versatility between airports and to employ military personnel? However, I read that this may not be the right solution. What alternatives do you propose? What about possible reinforcement by Eurocontrol staff? What about the recent social agreement that should improve the climate in Belgocontrol? What measures do you intend to implement to assess the strategic choices of Belgocontrol managers? What budget allocation would be provided to address all recent shortcomings?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u70	Minister, I welcome you and hope that your new functions will give you wings to straighten the bar in the many sensitive issues that you will now have to deal with. One of these issues relates to the operation and financing of Belgocontrol, a matter that has been of concern to us for many months or even years. As far as operation is concerned, the problems are not new but become more important every day. First of all, social dialogue is being undermined. Repeated social conflicts penalise the operation of both the national airport and regional airports. The chronic understaffing of air traffic controllers blocked the activities of Liège and Charleroi airports no later than yesterday. Secondly, management and governance have been pointed out for decades. We describe a management without vision, without opening, which would have only limited knowledge of its files. Minister, what analysis do you make of this situation? What measures do you intend to take in the short and medium term? Do you intend to present a Belgocontrol reform action plan to Parliament? If so, within what time frame? As far as financing is concerned, a structural deficit persists. For this year, it amounts to EUR 25 million. What do you intend to do to address this deficit? Have you started discussions with your Walloon counterpart about the services provided free of charge by Belgocontrol in favour of the airports under its jurisdiction?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u71	Mr. Secretary, I'd like to welcome you in advance. Unfortunately, I am already standing here today with a question about Belgocontrol. We know that our airports are currently hit by blow after blow. Yesterday an airport had to close because of ill air traffic controllers. This time, apparently, there was no problem with unjust diseases or control doctors. Last year I asked your predecessor about the possible shortage of air traffic controllers. Then I got the answer via Belgocontrol that there was nothing wrong and that there was no problem. However, yesterday an airport was closed because of this problem. How do we get into that situation? How is it possible that in the meantime we are apparently dependent on the import of Finnish air traffic controllers to keep things going? How can we remain systematically in trouble, while Belgocontrol has always been announced as the large training centre that would provide air traffic controllers across Europe? Minister, we must act vigorously. This automatically brings me to a number of clear questions. Firstly, can you give us an update on last week's actions with regard to the supervisory doctors? Secondly, is it true that Scandinavian air traffic controllers will be deployed at Belgocontrol to temporarily resolve the problems? How do you see that? Thirdly, is there a structural shortage of air traffic controllers at Belgocontrol? How will we deal with this systematically and decisively?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u72	Mijnheer de voorzitter, beste collega's, dear friends, the interruption of the Charleroi air traffic control services, yesterday between 7.15 and 11.30 a.m., is a continuation of the attacks in Brussels. Air traffic to Charleroi has increased by 40 per cent, representing a large number of flights. In Liège, the increase is 150%. A word of explanation. It should be noted that air traffic controllers have general air traffic controller training. They obtain a general air traffic controller licence. Then they are specially trained for each airport. So, today, an air traffic controller in Brussels or Liège cannot go to work in Charleroi, nor can someone in Charleroi go to work in Liège, because the controllers must have specific airport training. What happened was that there was an unavailability of controllers in Charleroi for effectively controlled health reasons. So far, the system in place is positive volunteering: that is, when an air traffic controller is unavailable for various reasons, the planning organizers contact other controllers. But it happens that these controllers had already assumed many tasks before and were therefore unable to come. There is currently no formally defined procedure. But it always worked well. Since last week, this system has shown its limitations. What corrective measures are proposed by Belgocontrol? They are included in a social agreement which was concluded on 12 April and contains various provisions. The first of these is for the commitment of 37 employees for 2017, but it should be noted that the training of a controller lasts several months. The second is the introduction of a "contactable-recallable" procedure. In other words, when planning interventions, a list of alternates will be prepared. However, this reminder system can only take effect from 1 June, because the schedules are set for one month. Some people who were ill and absent will be included. We want to move forward. I've already met the Belgocontrol management team. As I took office three days ago, it's hard for me to go faster. We suggest the installation of a pooling system, i.e. the formation of a pool of air controllers, by training them not only for Charleroi, but also for two or three other airports. Finally, mobility between towers will also be promoted through the creation of a pool of traffic controllers capable of operating in different towers. As I explained to you, licenses are not general licenses that allow entry into all towers. What are the measures to be considered by the government? I will present, as soon as possible, the procedure and the endorsement of the social agreement which has been concluded within Belgocontrol. The second part, which will be attached, is to ask for additional resources for Belgocontrol. There has already been an exchange of views to provide the means to make the necessary investments. The government will of course be careful to ensure continuity of service, a vital service for the image of Belgium. But we don't just live from the image! There are all the socio-economic aspects, with the social and economic aspects. It is therefore vital today to make use of the technical and financial elements so that we can restore the situation and ensure that we will no longer be in a tense flow as we have been. I therefore appeal a little to the wisdom and responsibility of the various speakers, so that they will leave me, that they will give us a little time to continue, to ask for endorsement, to ask for the additional resources. As regards the possible arrival of Scandinavian and other controllers, the problem is that the training of the designated airports is not done in one day. As I told you, it takes several months. This is therefore not a possible situation. As regards the renegotiation of the 1989 Cooperation Agreement with the Regions, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this cooperation agreement does not make the user fees for airports free of charge. It has frozen the situation, as concluded in 1989. I have a few numbers in mind. I believe that Charleroi airport paid in the order of EUR 5.9 million, but that the passenger surcharge which was blocked in 1989 does not give rise to any additional amounts of user fees. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what I can tell you today about the state of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u73	Mr Minister, we must remember from this situation the inability of Belgocontrol to carry out its tasks. Your answers - rather those prepared for you by Belgocontrol - do not convince me. You're telling us that the blame is for the attacks! Of course, the controllers are trained and assigned to a particular control tower. This is nothing new. There have been peaks, it is true, since regional airports have resumed some of the traffic that Zaventem could no longer provide. But the structural problems pre-existed in this situation. I see two big problems. This is not just the result of the attacks. Belgocontrol has simply not been able to anticipate the recruitment of controllers early enough, whereas two years are needed to train them. Next, inquire and question Belgocontrol; the procedure for regaining control from CANAC 2, i.e. the national control centre, was yesterday applicable but was not. This is unacceptable because it demonstrates a form of sabotage of regional airports, which is deplorable for travellers, airports, companies and the economic impact that airport paralysis has caused. Mr Minister, it is time to put Belgocontrol in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u74	Mr President, this situation is due to the major shortcomings for which Belgocontrol is responsible. The controller engagement system doesn't seem to be up to date. There seems to be a lot of work to do. We can no longer afford hours of flight stoppages in the coming days. We are ridiculing ourselves on the international stage and we must put an end to this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u75	Minister, thank you for your answers. Whether it is about the social agreement that you have committed yourself to come to committee or about the requests for additional financial resources for the necessary investments that you have also announced, the environmental group will be careful to follow up on this matter which is very close to our heart. For us, the main thing is that there is a pilot in the Belgocontrol cockpit. We're counting on you to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u76	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. There is a lot going on at Belgocontrol and there are a lot of things we need to deal with. I understand that three days is a little too short to solve all that. We will work intensively together in this House to tackle all these difficult issues, all those challenges that threaten our aviation sector. We must do this in closed order so that Belgocontrol can re-enable the economic engine that Zaventem and regional airports are. That is my main concern. We will work closely together in committee to achieve the right results.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u77	Mr President, you called me half an hour ago for my oral question, I was still splashing through the parliamentary corridors, but I was too late. Madam Secretary of State, I say that to point out that sport is important. Sport is part of their lives for a lot of people. Especially for young people, membership of a sports club is a way to develop, to live off, to have fun. In my opinion, therefore, free sports is not a constitutional right, but a right. This week, however, the Royal Swimming Union made an almost incomprehensible decision: mixed water polo will be abolished. In practice, this means that 170 girls in our country will no longer be able to exercise their hobby in competition. After all, there are too few girls to set up a separate competition and so the competitions were mixed for years. From now on, however, girls are excluded, sluts, done. At a time when the debate on fundamental values is raging so violently, I think it is very important to raise certain essential values when it comes to questioning equality between men and women. Of course, and I want to understand that, there may be reasonable reasons for the decision of the Swimbond, but these grounds seem to me to be very shaky. The first element cited is that water polo would be very rough and physical integrity would be compromised. I read the newspaper every day, I've been a sports fanatic for 40 years, but I don't have any knowledge of that impairment of physical integrity. The insurance agencies would also like to base themselves on this, but I also have no knowledge of it, let alone of a well-founded debate that would have taken place on this issue. For me, however, this is not a failure diverse in a lesser known sport. This is about taking opportunities from girls in our society. As far as I am concerned, this is unacceptable discrimination. But also boys here are suspected of not being able to behave in a common sport. Yesterday the matter was raised in the Flemish Parliament, where it was said that sport would be a community matter. However, this is about the Belgian Swimbond, and that is why I am asking you the question, you as Federal Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities. I read that the Institute for Equal Opportunities has already contacted the Swimbond after complaints from parents. Any results? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u78	Thank you, Mr Janssens, for your question. There have indeed been very unfortunate statements made by the Royal Belgian Swimbond. The statements sketch an image that boys and girls should be separated from 11 years of age, because it is dangerous if they are underwater together. That's more than a bridge too far. The signal is given here that boys and girls working out together would be dangerous, because things would happen that cannot be tolerated. I think that is a totally wrong starting point and I find these statements unacceptable. Besides, there's never been one incident in all these years. As far as anti-discrimination legislation is concerned, the regulation that has now been imposed could be a violation of it, in particular with regard to the gender law. Teams must of course not be mixed and separate competition teams may be deployed, but based on the principle that a team should not be mixed because certain actions could be made between the two sexes could be discriminatory. That is why I asked the Equal Opportunities Institute to investigate this matter further on its merits. I cannot anticipate the investigation, but the investigation into possible discrimination is carried out in full independence. As far as I'm concerned, the water polo girls can't stand in the cold. I hope that the Royal Belgian Swimming Federation will accept its responsibility: it is never too late to reverse a wrong decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u79	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I am pleased and satisfied that we are taking swift and firm action. I hope that the 170 girls will soon be able to dive back into the water to give the best of themselves. Equality between women and men remains a fundamental value of our society. We Liberals will always stand up and fight for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u80	That concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u81	Following the terrorist attacks on Tuesday 22 March 2016, the following Parliamentary Assembly expressed my condolences: - the Landtag of the Land of Bavaria, - the State Duma of the Russian Federation, - the Chamber of Representatives of the Czech Republic, - Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, - Parliament of the Republic of Albania, - the National Assembly of the State of Kuwait. In connection with the terrorist attacks on Tuesday, 22 March 2016, I received messages of support and condolences from the following parliamentary assemblies: - the Bavarian Land Parliament, - the State Duma of the Russian Federation, - the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic, - the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, - the Parliament of the Republic of Albania and - the National Assembly of the State of Kuwait.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u82	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 April 2016, I propose that you enter on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the draft law approving the Cooperation Treaty between the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on combating organised crime and terrorism, drawn up in Brussels on 18 February 2014, Nos 1646/1 to 3; - the draft law amending the Law of 19 March 2014 on the legal definition of the craftsman, Nos 1638/1 to 4; - the legislative proposal (Mr Philippe Goffin, Mr Gilles Foret and Mr Richard Miller) amending the law of 25 Ventôse year XI in the notarial office, with a view to abolishing the prohibition on the immediate re-election of members of the notarial commission to enable the exercise of two successive mandates, No. 598/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 April 2016, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the draft law approving the Convention on Cooperation between the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco in the Fight against Organized Crime and Terrorism, done at Brussels on 18 February 2014, Nos. 1646/1 to 3; - the bill amending the law of 19 March 2014 on the legal definition of artisans, Nos. 1638/1 to 4; - the bill (MM. Philippe Goffin, Gilles Foret and Richard Miller) amending the Act of the 25th Ventôse an XI containing the organization of the notariat as regards the lifting of the prohibition of the immediate re-eligibility of the members of the commissions of appointment for the notariat in order to enable the exercise of two successive terms, No 598/1. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u83	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. This bill was on the agenda of 10 March, but the discussion was postponed at the request of the government. The rapporteur, Ms Gwenaëlle Grovonius, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u84	Mr President, Minister, on 25 February we adopted this draft in the House's Committee on External Relations. As I said at the time, this is an indispensable tool in the fight against terrorism. My group is convinced that this is a top priority. Therefore, such conventions must be negotiated. That is why we have supported this project in committee and will continue to support it today. However, this struggle cannot be organized in any way. Thus, it cannot be carried out to the detriment of human rights and international conventions in this field. Morocco is not a democratic State like Belgium and does not respect several human rights conventions. Violation of the rule of law is not a solution to terrorism. Through the debates in the Council of Europe, we see that an instrumentalisation of the concept of "terrorism" can very quickly extend to mere political opponents, with all the excesses we can imagine. That is why I have asked a number of specific questions to the minister in committee, particularly as regards the implications of the Convention for the government's counter-terrorism measures. I am thinking here of the Belgian definition of the concept of "terrorism". It is essential to describe and delimit precisely this concept, because the definition is not the same in our country and in Morocco. I am obviously referring to the question of human rights and the question of the rights of defence, but also to the exclusion of any torture or inhuman and degrading treatment. I have been able to ask questions about article 12 of the Convention and the guarantees given in this area. Indeed, several organizations, including Amnesty International and the League of Human Rights, had reservations about the statement of reasons in French concerning the article in question, which was different from the text of the Convention. If Article 12, paragraph 1, provides that "each Contracting Party shall refuse assistance where it is likely to threaten the sovereignty, security, public order or other essential interests of the State or where it is contrary to the legal provisions in force in its territory", the statement of reasons relating to that same Article shall adopt a less binding wording. It thus provides that each Contracting Party shall not, but may refuse assistance. That is why, Minister, I would like you to reassure us in this plenary session by explaining why the explanatory memorandum does not reflect the wording of Article 12 of the Convention. Finally, I would like to point out that the legal provisions mentioned in the draft clearly include the international commitments made by Belgium and Morocco, including all the human rights treaties ratified by each of the two countries. The explanatory memorandum on Article 12 also states that refusal of assistance concerns situations in which cooperation may lead to a violation of fundamental rights, including the prohibition of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment. I will therefore conclude by stating that Belgium, whether with Morocco or with any other third State, must take all necessary measures to prevent such conventions from leading to tacit or explicit approval by our country of the use of torture and other ill-treatment. I therefore hope that the government will take all the measures and guarantees within the framework of the future conventions, but also of the latter and the previous conventions, against cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment, including in the context of the fight against terrorism. This has always been a priority for which Belgian diplomacy and my group have been involved. The difficult context in which we find ourselves must not deviate from this position. Minister, could you please reassure us of this, with respect to section 12?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u85	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium has for many years built deep, positive and mutually beneficial relations with Morocco. Within the framework of the Arab Springs, the King of Morocco and his government are gradually moving the country towards reform, although it is sometimes too slow, while at the same time ensuring social peace. Admittedly, progress still needs to be made, including the decriminalization of homosexuality. However, we welcome the political developments. We observe and encourage with interest the country's journey towards further democratization, without the clashes and violence that have been experienced and that some neighbouring countries are still experiencing. We also know that Morocco is an important player in the Middle East peace process, which was able to convey messages to each other. Morocco is therefore, in our view, an extremely important country, a partner with many advantages for the Mediterranean region. It is not anecdotal to draw attention to the fact that the Tangier Business School has inaugurated its cycle of diplomatic conferences by highlighting the relationship between Belgium and Morocco. In fact, on 14 January, a conference-debate took place in the presence of the Belgian Ambassador to Morocco, His Excellency Mr. Frank Carruet. It was entitled "Belgium and Morocco, a sparkling relationship", which I welcome. Mr President, under the previous government, Belgium and Morocco have signed a series of bilateral agreements that strengthen cooperation between the two countries. It was an opportunity to conclude, for example at the level of the social affairs ministers of the two countries, an agreement allowing Moroccan workers who had completed their professional life in Belgium and who decided to resettle in Morocco to benefit from the reimbursement of their health care in their country. Another agreement concerns cooperation against organized crime and terrorism. It is this text that is before us today. It should have been dealt with a month ago, but this proved impossible in view of the events which unfortunately took place in Brussels. I would like to congratulate you here on the speed with which the competent services are able to table on the benches of our house, the bill that reflects this agreement. As a reminder, a similar text had already been drafted in 1999, but it had never been ratified. However, in view of the tragic events that we have experienced since then, the text had to be redrafted. Thus, the new law provides that the police services of both countries will exchange their information in a structured way in the future. This is obviously important, even "cardinal" – if I may say so – when it comes to combating drug trafficking, combating trafficking in human beings, but also the movement of terrorists linked or not to Syrian events. These are the reasons why I believe that this bill must be approved by a large majority and that political divisions must be overcome. Indeed, as parliamentarians, we must ensure that we maintain the excellent relationship we have with Morocco.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u86	Minister, the cooperation agreement before us today is particularly important in the context of information exchange, counter-terrorism and terrorist cases, among other things. The last few weeks have shown that information exchange is important, internally in our country, but also, of course, abroad. Minister, there is an important point in this respect: it is forbidden in our country to use torture to obtain information. The question is whether or not these practices take place in Morocco. Amnesty International has asked you to send a letter to Morocco to ensure that the information we receive from Morocco will not be obtained through torture. That guarantee is important. I understand that Amnesty International has so far received no response from you, so I would like to put the question to you today. For sp.a, this is an important fact for our voting behaviour. So we are curious about your reaction in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u87	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as I said in committee, the need to consider cooperation between Morocco and our country to help the police to resolve the ongoing terrorist cases, and unfortunately to come, is absolute. This is also necessary to help our intelligence services prevent them. We do agree on that. This collaboration, however, cannot be done at any price for the Greens. As Mr Flahaux said, this text was concluded on 10 February 2014, which is quite rare, given the number of treaties we sometimes approve about ten years after their conclusion. This is rare enough to be stressed: Belgium and Morocco have done so quickly to be able to sign this treaty. The prize for this collaboration has two sides. The first, as Mr Blanchart pointed out, is that the respective definitions of terrorism that Morocco and Belgium are designing differ significantly. The discussions we have had together in committee have taught us that both countries will have to write a letter to imagine the concept of terrorism for both sides. We know from precedents – such as Ali Aarrass's for example – that these concepts differ fundamentally. It has even been particularly systematic for the concept of terrorism to be applied to political opponents by Morocco. On the specific case of the binational Ali Aarrass, I would like to repeat one thing on page 7 of the report. Mr Minister, you said in committee that there was no indication that convicted Ali Aarrass was tortured. I'm sorry, but we have to repeat it here: the evidence is overwhelming. The United Nations reports are clear; Ali Aarrass was tortured by the Moroccan authorities. That must be said in this democratic forum. The definitions of terrorism are therefore significantly different in our two countries, but there is a second problem. This is the systematic practice of torture, especially for persons who are returned or deported to Morocco for terrorism. Since 2010, there have been three recent judgments of the European Court of Human Rights which demonstrate consistent jurisprudence. I quote them: on 18 November 2010 in the Boutagni v. France case, on 30 May 2013 in the Rafaa v. France case, and on 2 June 2015, in the Ouabour v. Belgium case, the European Court of Human Rights systematically issued opinions refusing the expulsion of Moroccan nationals to Morocco in the name of the practice of systematic torture. It is therefore extremely important, before ratifying this kind of agreement, not to go head down and to think carefully about the impact on our rule of law and on the fundamental rights of those who would, for one reason or the other, be sent back to Morocco. I repeat, it is necessary for Ecolo-Groen to work together, but not at any cost. That is why we abstained in committee and will continue to abstain earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u88	Mr President, Minister, we will not be able to support this text for three reasons. The first is that the executive can define the list of crimes, which we find problematic. The second problem is the Moroccan definition of terrorism. It is likely that Morocco would use the information obtained to prosecute activists and opponents of the regime. The third is that, whatever Mr Flahaux says, there are too many and important human rights problems in Morocco. Like Mr Hellings, I will mention the case of Ali Aarrass, about which I asked you a question. This is the case of a Belgo-Moroccoan, imprisoned and tortured in Morocco for five years. It is the symbol of Amnesty International's campaign against torture. In the question I asked about him, I felt very little support from the minister for this Belgo-Moroccoan. When I say "too little support," it's an understatement! These flagrant cases of torture are of course a problem. That is why we cannot support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u89	Mr President, I would like to thank the groups that support this project because it is important for the fight against terrorism and organised crime. We are sharing more and more information, not only within the European Union, but also with partners outside it, in particular with partners in the southern part of the Mediterranean. This is particularly important, especially since the exchange of information, particularly with Morocco, has already made it possible to advance a number of investigations in an effective manner. I am still a little surprised that there are still parliamentarians in this House who oppose this kind of exchange when we know the importance of this approach. This has been discussed recently with the debate on the exchange of information from Turkey. In the same way, we must make progress with Morocco and if we do not pass a convention, we will not be effective in this process. As regards an individual case which is regularly referred to, I would point out that thanks to the efforts made by the Belgian consulate, the Moroccan Commission for Human Rights was able to visit the person concerned every week. I have clarified its current situation following visits by the Moroccan Human Rights Commission at the request of the Belgian consulate. It is important to remember that we conduct consular procedures whenever necessary. Finally, and I answer Mr Blanchart's legitimate question, the text of Article 12 is quite clear on the refusal of assistance in the exchange of information by the contracting parties, and therefore Belgium in particular, where such assistance is likely to threaten sovereignty. The text of the explanatory memorandum is very clear in Dutch. The explanatory statement in Dutch is very clear on this point, Mr Vanvelthoven: "It is stated that assistance should always be refused if it could threaten sovereignty, security, public policy or other essential State interests or if it is found that the assistance is contrary to the legal provisions in force in its territory." The same applies to human rights. I confirm that the text must be identical in French. There is no option: it is a question of refusing assistance when these situations arise. I assure you. At the same time, I am replying to the letters of some non-governmental organisations, but I think it was logical to give priority to the members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u90	Mr President, Minister, the problem is not to cooperate with Morocco. It is torture that Morocco practices. The implementation of this agreement poses a real problem if Morocco transmits to Belgium information, important for the resolution of an investigation in the case of terrorism, obtained under torture. The case law of the European Court of Human Rights has been consistent in this respect with regard to Belgium, in particular since the El Haski judgment of 25 September 2012. This ruling stipulates that the Belgian courts may not use evidence obtained under torture in a trial. The challenge is to collaborate with Morocco and encourage it to stop its systematic practices of torture. That is why it is necessary to intensify cooperation with this country while insisting that these practices of another age should cease.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u91	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u92	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1646/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1646/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u93	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u94	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u95	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u96	Mr President, I would just like to go back to the content and usefulness of this bill brought by Minister Borsus. It amends, let us recall, various provisions of the law of 19 March 2014 on the legal definition of the craftsman. This law, which had been passed on Sabine Laruelle's initiative, aims to enable artisans to see their quality recognized by consumers, in particular through an ad hoc logo. The draft law, in the interests of administrative simplification, provides, in particular, that the absence of a decision by the Commission and the Crafts Council within the legal time limits will henceforth be as acceptance of the request for recognition or extension of the status of craftsman, and not as rejection, which has prevailed so far. The draft also contains several procedural adjustments. Our group in the Reform Movement welcomes the Minister's attempt to simplify the work of artisans whose work deserves to be valued. We also welcome the announcement made in committee that the Royal Decree on logos will soon be adopted, allowing consumers to identify unknown artisans.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u97	Thank you, Mr. Friart. Does the government wish to respond?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u98	Mr President, I would simply like to thank all the groups for their support in committee and for the mobilising of everyone to make our craftsmen known, to enable them to work, to promote their products and thus make this "craft" identification a real success for the people concerned but also an economic and employment success.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u99	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u100	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1638/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1638/4) The draft law has 13 articles. The bill has 13 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u101	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u102	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Philippe Goffin, Gilles Foret, Richard Miller.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u103	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Van Cauter, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u104	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for several years now, the Notarial Appointment Commission's progress report referred to the fact that the know-how was not transmitted, since there was a break-up among the members of the Commission. They could, of course, serve two four-year terms, but there was no possibility of having members in the Commission who would have served for a number of years and others who would have joined. We have therefore tabled a proposal to address this difficulty in the transmission of the know-how. I thank all the members of the Committee on Justice who unanimously approved this bill in response to this request. This proposal and the amendments tabled during the discussions, following the hearings held in committee, were modelled on the opinion of the Federation of Notaries. The system that will now be put in place meets this objective of transmission of know-how with other difficulties as well. How are we going to do this? It is now planned that, every two years, there will be a partial renewal of the members of the Commission. The principle does not change. The members of the Commission shall be elected for a term of four years. Another principle that does not change is that they can be re-elected, but there will always be, as is already the case, a four-year standstill period, so that the Commissions do not turn on themselves with the same members. Through this system, since partial renewals will allow for the presence of experienced members and new members, this objective is being met. In the three groups comprising these Appointment Commissions, there is, on the one hand, the notary group. We added an element to it. From now on, it will be possible to have honorary notaries. When I say "des", he is an honorary notary on the Dutch-speaking side and an honorary notary on the French-speaking side. For the second group, university professors or magistrates, this is the same principle. They will be renewed either. And finally, for the external group of experts, there will be the possibility of having a partial renewal of one or the other. In the case of notaries, it is the National Chamber which will make the choice of two years or four years at the first renewal, since a transitional period is required. This is the case with this provision. In the other two groups, it will be up to this assembly to choose between those who sit for two years and those who sit for four years. Another element that has been amended in the context of this bill is the presence of a secretariat to facilitate the work of the Commissions. Finally, the final point was that, as a result of the Ombudsman's arrival, it was no longer necessary to see complaints handled by the Commission of Appointment. It is now a competence which is withdrawn to devote itself only to its essential function, that of appointing candidates notaries to perform the function of notary. I thank the members of the committee for having unanimously supported this text in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u105	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u106	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (598/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (598/4) The title was amended by the Committee in the proposal for a law amending the law of 25 Ventôse year XI on the notary office concerning the nomination committees for the notary'. The title has been amended by the commission to propose a law amending the law of 25 Ventôse an XI containing organization of the notariat with regard to the commissions of appointment for the notariat. The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u107	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u108	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (1720/1) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (1720/1) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u109	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to plenary at the end of an important work which our Parliament has undertaken by setting up a special committee on the Dieselgate. Behind this term, we initially covered the case of rigged software whose engines in Volkswagen cars had been equipped and then, by extension, the other problems we found. When I say 'we', it is not just to designate Belgium, but also the other European countries. By beginning reading this report with four votes, let me, ladies and gentlemen, first of all thank the chairman of our committee for the work they have conducted and for the way in which she has done so in accordance with what we had agreed from the outset, namely a work which was not limited to seeing differences, but to seeking consensus, beyond the too conventional majority-opposition divides. I also thank her for her commitment and willingness to succeed, including on the most sensitive and contentious issues. I would also like to thank the committee secretaries who have accompanied us and the various departments, who have spared no effort to assist us. We were able to benefit from the contribution of some 30 hearings. It's not nothing! I turn to the content of the report, which, as you can see, is divided into eight chapters: consumer protection, public health, the environment, Europe – since it is concerned in several points –, controls, mobility, taxation and follow-up to the recommendations. My colleagues will develop them. For my part, I will only go over the one on consumer protection, which has adopted sixteen recommendations. This shows the importance that we wanted to attach to this dimension. Indeed, behind the VWgate scandal, Dieselgate, regardless of its name, there is also a scandal related to the non-respect of consumer rights. It is not for nothing that the first recommendation we have adopted is intended to indicate that it would be unfair to punish the consumer. In the first sentence of its report, the committee wanted to point out that the consumer is under no circumstances responsible for this scandal. According to the committee, it is up to Volkswagen – I would point out that the report has been adopted unanimously – to make a proposal that is sufficiently attractive, I would insist on these terms, so that consumers can bring their vehicles back in the context of the procedures that the government has initiated. I will not go back to recommendations 2, 3 and 4. Instead, I will focus on Recommendation No. 5, which seeks to ask the federal government to ensure that the quality of consumer information is improved. They need to know clearly what the content is and what changes have been made at the manufacturer's request, but also what the consequences are for both their first purchase and the resale of their vehicle. It is voluntary that, in this oral report, I have not, at this stage, read the parenthesis. My objective is to stress more clearly the importance of this parenthesis, which has been made clear in the debate we have had in committee. We call on the federal government to ensure that consumers benefit from the original content of the software applications, as well as from the changes and updates that have been made. You will recall, ladies and gentlemen, that we have had various hearings, including in camera. On this occasion, our attention was drawn to the importance of controlling the content of the software. It is also valid for D'Ieteren, whose representatives who participated in our hearings pointed out that they were not aware of these elements of the software. The recommendation to the government is clear and firm in this regard. The written report contains other recommendations that you will have an opportunity to read. But let me stop for a moment at Recommendation No. 9, which has been the subject of lengthy debate in committee – Mr Senesael, as the other Commissioners will remember – on whistleblower devices. I will read the recommendation and recall how we reached this agreement, thanks in particular to Mr Miller's contribution. It is not in session today, but I would like to point out its positive contribution to recommendation 9. This recommendation, I quote, "requests the federal government to examine, after consultation with the sectors, the modalities for the establishment of a legal mechanism for whistleblowers (reserved for reporting illegal practices) and calls on the government to put in place legal protection for whistleblowers in this system". Yes, our report leads to ambitious proposals and hopes that the government will put in place a mechanism for whistleblowers. There is no longer any debate on the principle; however, there is a debate on the modalities and this debate is to be held with the sectors. This is a step forward in this recommendation. Let me conclude by referring to the last two recommendations in this chapter. Recommendation 15 asks the government to assess the desirability of establishing, in particular on the basis of existing arrangements, a monitoring of the evolution of values, following the Dieselgate, in the vehicle resale market. This recommendation specifies that, if a loss of value is established as a result of the technical adaptations to the Dieselgate, manufacturers must ensure that there is adequate compensation. The principle of compensation is one of our recommendations on the basis of a monitoring that needs to be assessed by the government in terms of timeliness. We know that different devices already exist. Recommendation 16 states that all previous recommendations apply to similar scandals in other manufacturers. It is voluntary that we did not mention them because we knew that others were either already being analysed by the administration, possibly by the courts, and that other scandals were perhaps going to break out. Yesterday, in Flanders, Opel's case came back to the forefront. With this recommendation, your committee has anticipated the extension of the other recommendations for brands other than Volkswagen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add my thanks to Mr Nollet. As agreed with the other rapporteurs, I will report briefly on the Controls and Mobility sections. There was a very rapid consensus in our committee on the Controls section. The Controls section contains five recommendations from the Committee. Among other things, it calls for further investigations into suspected manufacturers, but also for checks to be carried out on other manufacturers using illegal software. This should take into account the results of the tests carried out by accreditation services and consumer associations in our country and in other countries of Europe. In addition to this recommendation, it calls for an alternative system to ensure transparency and traceability of the vehicles concerned. For the Mobility section, our committee has made nine recommendations. The main focus is on using alternatives to the individual vehicle, for example by promoting car-pooling and public transport. It also recommends more sustainable mobility. The focus is on chain mobility as sustainable as possible. The Committee recommends that the use of the bike should be maximised and more focused on teleworking. Last but not least, it also calls for a legal framework for the mobility budget. So far, my brief report on controls and mobility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will also be brief. I too would like to thank everyone for their contribution to this committee. I believe that the general summary was complete and correct. I'd like to talk about the health section. Specifically in the field of public health, we have made a number of recommendations to the federal government and the European government to further examine this issue and integrate it into a transition. The main recommendations in this respect are Nos 17 to 19. In Recommendation No. 17 We call on the federal government to combat all forms of harmful emissions and their consequences, and to focus on reducing emissions of NOX, fine dust and ozone, as well as other pollutants. In Recommendation No. 18 We ask the federal government to further investigate the impact of excessive NOX emissions from diesel cars on public health and to draw the necessary consequences in terms of health objectives that can reduce and prevent the impact of harmful emissions. Finally, Recommendation No. 19 asks the federal government to strengthen the analysis of the impact of particulate matter on health with particular attention to all groups at risk. We also have two recommendations in a European perspective. In Recommendation No. 41 We ask the federal government to at least advocate the application of WTO standards on fine dust in the context of harmonisation at European level. Recommendation No. 42 calls on the federal government to promote emission standards at European level that take greater account of public health and the environment. By addressing the NOX, we ask the federal government to reconcile mobility and greening. In doing so, we pay particular attention to the importance of NOX on public health and ask the federal government to map it. I shall conclude, Mr President. We have adopted the recommendations in committee on a broad basis. I thank everyone for their cooperation. Majority and opposition have adopted these recommendations. I hope this can be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the elements I have to explain here are specifically about Europe, Fiscality and the need for follow-up. It is striking that the Europe strand has become an extensive chapter because, of course, this issue is also very wide-ranging. Some things can also be better dealt with in this way. The Committee has expressed its support for a number of concrete recommendations, for example for a better publication and mention of NOX emissions. A European standard should also be introduced which obliges manufacturers to inform consumers properly, including on NOX, but also on other parameters such as fuel consumption. In addition, the link with the Real Driving Emissions should also be very clear. The Committee believes that these data can be inspired by the existing eco-score. After all, these figures must be legible and accessible to the consumer. This automatically implies taking into account the different car models on the market. The efforts made at European level in terms of emissions of NOX, CO2 and fine dust also ensure that better account is taken of the environmental and public health impact of these issues. The committee also felt it essential to start a dialogue with the automobile industry so that measures can be taken to compensate for what has gone wrong in recent years. This means that this can take the form of financial compensation, but it can of course also be about other things, such as concrete and effective solutions that can protect public health and the environment. In the whole package we also note that supervision of the approval services, of those who are actually responsible for the approval and recognition of models, should be strengthened. It should also be independent in order not to miss its effect. In addition, the benefits that would emerge from this whole infringement procedure should be available to all possible customers in all European Member States, so that everyone can rely on them. The traceability of vehicles was also cited by the committee as a very important aspect. The national authorities of the EU Member States are urged to do so, in order to ensure that this can also be followed if there is a cross-border sale in a Europe where the free movement of goods applies. It is also necessary to ensure that the European framework is put in place and that all available information is available for the approval and inspection of vehicles. Then you can also check which settings are specifically active. This should also ensure that a recommendation was also made that reliable testing and accreditation procedures are effectively ensured and that those relevant ecological criteria can be invoked. We must be able to count on it. The reflection that is being launched within the European comitology bodies needs to be strengthened, as is already provided for in the new European institutional agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u113	Finally, the Committee on Europe has also recommended the application of WHO standards on fine dust, so that we can achieve results. Specifically with regard to the Real Driving Emissions tests, on which very much emphasis was placed in the committee, it is absolutely necessary to tighten up the tests and possibly extend them to other matters, such as CO2, fine dust and other substances, so that we can also build in the necessary guarantees. It is also essential that we should be able to guarantee its introduction in the short term in order to take account of the lessons learned from the committee. In the field of taxation, the section on mobility, which has been referred to briefly, calls for a modal shift and thus less polluting technologies and fuels and alternative modes of transport, because it is a whole package of measures to increase their share in the transport mix. This means automatically that, as far as taxation is concerned, fiscal greening must be implemented at federal level in order to promote the least polluting technologies and alternative modes of transport in order to increase their share. In this respect, the Committee calls very clearly on the government to investigate the extension of tax parameters for commercial vehicles, because it is necessary to take into account, among other things, the impact of NOX and other pollutants linked to mobility, of course in consultation with the Regions, so that there is a credible and realistic alternative that neither the workers nor the employers will sanction. The Commission fully recognises the future potential of zero-emission vehicles, including electric vehicles. In this respect, the committee is clearly asking the government to examine the profit potential of less polluting alternative vehicles by promoting research and development in this area. The policy choice for low carbon electricity can already increase the profit potential in the areas of society, the environment and public health. Colleagues, the recommendations require further steps to ensure that everything is implemented. The Committee asks the government to draw up an action plan by the end of 2016 which translates these recommendations into concrete measures. We also stress the agenda and the actual implementation so that results can be achieved. The committee also calls for a debate to be held on the progress of the recommendations and on how they can be implemented in each committee responsible for Parliament for the first time within six months and thereafter each year. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus formulated a whole series of recommendations on a whole range of subjects. They must enable us to learn a lot of lessons from the whole Dieselgate problem, to choose the way forward and to respond to what we can learn from it. We all know that there are challenges in terms of mobility, CO2 and climate. When the recommendations before us are implemented in practice, we are taking a lot of steps in the right direction. Of course, I still have to thank everyone for the cooperation we have had in committee. There has indeed been a lot of meetings. There have also been many speakers. We must also thank the chairman of the committee and all the members of the committee for their constructive cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to join in the thanks and congratulations which have been extended by my colleagues to all those who have contributed to making this committee a success. As a parliament, our duty is not to leave the fraud of the Dieselgate without further action. Our duty is to learn all the lessons in order to better protect public health, the environment and consumers. The thirteen hearings in committee allowed us to better understand the scale and nature of the fraud introduced by Volkswagen. Thanks to the positive attitude of all Commissioners, we were then able to agree on a series of reforms to be implemented. I will come back to that in the second part of my speech. As a first step, I would like to recall a few observations. First, the fraud of the Dieselgate is primarily a fraud against public health. Volkswagen manipulated its diesel engines to mask some of the nitrogen oxide emissions. However, we know that these emissions cause respiratory problems. Asthmatic persons, the elderly and children are the first victims. So there's a terrible cynicism behind Volkswagen's manipulations. To make a profit, to sell more cars, some people are willing to put public health at risk. This is obviously shocking and totally unacceptable. Secondly, the European fraud detection system is not effective enough. Worldwide, 11 million vehicles are affected by the Dieselgate. In the European Union, there are 8.5 million vehicles. And in Belgium alone, 320,000 vehicles. It should also be noted that this fraud lasted almost six years between 2009 and 2015. It is therefore a large-scale fraud, which was organised by a European company. What is calling for is the fact that the European authorities have not been able to stop Volkswagen's manipulations. It was not in Europe, but in the United States that the frauds were made public. We must be honest and see that the Dieselgate is also a failure of the European supervisory authorities. Thirdly, there is a great hypocrisy about the actual level of pollutant emissions from vehicles. Beyond the Volkswagen case, the Dieselgate has reinvigorated the debate on the large difference between the level of pollutant emissions from vehicles and the actual level of emissions as observed on the road. For years, manufacturers have developed a series of schemes to achieve better performance in laboratory certification tests. Manufacturers use special oils, overflat tires, remove mirrors, etc., to artificially limit pollution from their vehicles. The problem is that all these schemes are obviously not transferable to vehicles on the road. As a result, the gap between laboratory and road measurements continues to increase. It now reaches 40% in terms of CO2 emissions and 300 to 400 % in terms of nitrogen oxide emissions. It should also be noted that laboratory results are also used to inform and attract consumers when purchasing; this difference between laboratory tests and actual road conditions must therefore be addressed in order to better control actual air pollution and to better inform consumers. I will come back to that when I address the committee's recommendations. Before that, I come to the fourth and final point. Dieselgate is also a symptom of a certain opacity in the automotive sector. In September, when the scandal became public, Volkswagen apologized. However, it was later found that the car manufacturer did not play the transparency. How is it possible that internal controls at Volkswagen could not prevent this large-scale fraud? Who was aware and who authorized this fraud within the company? These questions are important but, unfortunately, I have no answer because the Volkswagen representative interviewed on 23 November 2015 was not able to make transparency before our committee. After the apologies of September, we are now entitled to opacity and some form of denial. Matthias Müller, CEO of the Volkswagen Group, said in January about the Dieselgate: "Frankly, it was a technical problem. We did not have the correct interpretation of American law. We set some goals for our engineers. They solved the problem, achieved the goals by finding a solution with software that is not compatible with American law." Answering a question as to whether Volkswagen's attitude had been ethical or not, Volkswagen's CEO replied: "I don't understand your question." We're a long way from the September apology! This attitude of Volkswagen's CEO illustrates, in my view, a state of mind present in some multinationals. With the banks in 2008, we saw the damage of the big to fail too! Unfortunately, we must note that this also exists in the automotive sector. The Volkswagen manufacturer is so big, so rich and so many jobs that the temptation is great to leave him alone and not to hold him to account. From a moral point of view, this is unacceptable. We must be able to hold to account while preserving the workers in the sector. On the one hand, justice must do its job to punish offences and, on the other hand, it is up to the public authorities to implement the necessary reforms in order to prevent such fraud from happening again in the future. By adopting 59 recommendations today, our assembly refuses to leave the Dieselgate unanswered. We have been committed to protecting consumers, but also to learning more comprehensive lessons in the fight against car pollution. As far as Belgian consumers are concerned, their vehicles will be rid of fraudulent software free of charge. We also ask that a replacement car be provided when necessary. Re-conformity shall in no case cause harm to the consumer. Vehicle performance must remain in line with what consumers have purchased. Tests must be carried out before and after compliance in order to provide guarantees to the consumer. Parliament therefore calls on the government to ensure that recall actions are carried out properly, so that consumers are not harmed in any way. Beyond the Volkswagen case, the Special Committee has also unanimously adopted global recommendations on pollutant emissions from vehicles. We ask that the emission levels displayed by manufacturers be much more realistic. Consumers need to have accurate information on fuel consumption and the level of vehicle pollution. This information is essential in order to make an informed purchase. Through a series of recommendations, we also call for the strengthening of the certification and control services in order to better detect exceedances of pollution standards. This also implies better access to software that is multiplying in vehicles. Ladies and gentlemen, we must reduce the level of pollutant emissions from vehicles, but the real structural solution is to allow as many people as possible to opt for alternatives to private cars. Without punishing motorists who do not know how to do otherwise, citizens must be given the choice of leaving their cars in the garage. Public policies in terms of mobility and taxation should give priority to soft mobility or public transport. This includes revising the company car system while preserving the purchasing power of workers. The PS group is pleased to see the House support this approach. The 59 recommendations adopted unanimously in committee are obviously a compromise. So we also had to accept that some of our requests were not included in the final text. The PS group requested that the House require European consumers to receive compensation equivalent to that of American consumers. In the United States, the owners of the vehicles concerned receive $1,000 and three years of free assistance from Volkswagen. Additional compensation of $5,000 per client is also discussed. For European consumers, Volkswagen does not foresee any surplus of the re-conformity of vehicles. Although European and American legislation are different, there is no reason, in our view, for European consumers to be less well treated. I regret that this request by the PS could not have received a majority in the committee. Colleagues, the government must now address the 59 recommendations of our special committee. It is essential to avoid further cases of fraud in the future, but also to ensure that there are no further cases of fraud today, as Mr Nollet pointed out. I am thinking in particular of the latest information on Opel or Mitsubishi. In conclusion, I would like to return to a recommendation that is particularly important to us. I think it is an essential tool to reduce the risk that such fraud will happen again. I am talking about the government's request to put in place legal protection for whistleblowers who denounce illegal practices. We will pay particular attention to the measures that the government will take to implement this and the other 58 recommendations. Finally, I fear that the Volkswagen scandal is only the tip of the iceberg. Evidence of this, Mitsubishi who admits to manipulating tests to show better energy efficiency. But, ladies and gentlemen, to all the fraudster builders, I would just like to remind you of this little sentence which tells us that "when the lie takes the elevator, the truth takes the stairs". It takes more time but always ends up coming. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u115	Mrs Dierick, you have the floor. You will ask Mr. Senesael to re-explain his image!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in September 2015, it came to light that the Volkswagen Group had installed intelligent software, the so-called shuffle software, in its cars. This software can detect test conditions and thus adjust the engine control for better test results. These irregularities were detected in about 320 000 vehicles in our country of the Volkswagen, Audi, SEAT and Škoda brands. In our country, immediately after these facts, an investigation was started by the Economic Inspectorate, and that investigation has already been delivered to the public for further follow-up. This situation raised many questions for many consumers, but of course also for us as MEPs and the relevant ministers, while the information was not always complete and clear. In order to be able to follow up the dossier properly, it was decided on 22 October to set up a special committee. The purpose of that committee was to provide information, in addition to the follow-up, to members, to hear persons and to request documents, and finally to submit a report containing conclusions and recommendations. As has already been said by my fellow Members, we have worked in a very constructive atmosphere. We have worked hard on many recommendations. No less than 59 recommendations have just been presented to you. The consumer protection recommendations also apply in cases of similar scandals with other manufacturers and are therefore not only addressed to the Volkswagen Group. For example, we are also receiving reports of suspicious emissions, including at Opel today, and also Japanese car builder Mitsubishi would have falsified test data. As the recommendations clearly state, the necessary investigations should continue with regard to any manufacturer suspected. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall not speak very comprehensively. However, I would like to highlight four recommendations, which are very important for CD&V. Everyone will agree with me when I say that the consumer may be the victim throughout the Dieselgate. One doesn't buy a car every day. The purchase of a car is usually a deliberate decision, because there is always a serious cost involved. A good contact with and trust in the dealer is important. Such information about the characteristics of a car often determines the choice of a particular car. Just in there, they're being cheated. For CD&V, an optimal and complete consumer protection is the main objective. The consumer is affected by this fraud and is in no way responsible for it. At the time of the purchase he did not know that his car was equipped with this software. For CD&V it would therefore be unfair for consumers to be sanctioned before, during or after the adjustment. As the consumer was informed that his vehicle was involved in this fraud, we consider it very important that he be encouraged as much as possible to bring his vehicle in. We believe it is very important that there should be no adverse effects on the consumer in this recall action and that, if there are any inconveniences for him, they should be kept to a minimum. Moreover, the adjustment must also be free of charge. The consumer must therefore not suffer or be punished in any way. We must also have the courage to look to the future. Therefore, there are several recommendations that go much wider than just this Volkswagen scandal. CD&V is absolutely in favour of a code of conduct agreed with the sector. Through consultation with the sector, this code of conduct can set out agreements. For us, the quality of the information that consumers receive must be much better. The consumer must be given very clear information about the software changes that are taking place at the request of the manufacturer, and he must also be clear about the consequences. This is also very important for the next owner when selling. We are therefore pleased that Minister Peeters has already explained today that he is taking steps to sit with the car industry and that there is already a draft code of conduct. We hope that it can be achieved quickly. CD&V not only wants to protect the consumer, but also the whistleblowers. People still have to dare to expose illegal practices, without personally being harmed. That is why we in the committee have called for a study, after consultation with the sectors, of the possibility of better legal protection for whistleblowers. Finally, our group is pleased that the demand for a legal framework for the mobility budget has been included in our demand. My colleague Jef Van den Bergh has been pending a legislative proposal on this since the previous legislature. The aim is to create more freedom of choice for the employee. The company car is an option, but at least it will be able to use other, more environmentally friendly means of transport. The legislative framework must be completed within a reasonable time. The support base, even now within the majority, seems to have increased in recent weeks. We must not miss this opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last few months we have worked together in a very constructive atmosphere on a whole series of recommendations. The hearings enriched our knowledge of the problem and were very useful. We have worked hard within a short period of time, I dare say. I would, of course, like to thank the fellow Members of the Committee on Transport and Tourism for that. But, ladies and gentlemen, our work has not been done here. We must continue to follow up on this dossier and check whether our recommendations are actually being followed up. That is why it is also good that the recommendations make it very clear that further follow-up is needed. We expect the ministers concerned to deliver a very clear action plan by the end of 2016, so that we can follow our recommendations well. However, ladies and gentlemen, we must also take a look at Europe. The report pays a great deal of attention to Europe and, of course, we also have many recommendations for Europe. That makes sense, because in terms of standards, accreditations and tests, most of the rules are European. A special committee has already been set up in the European Parliament. We must continue to monitor the results of this. Our work will not stop here; we will, of course, continue to follow up this dossier in the relevant committees, the Committee on Industry, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Public Health, together with Minister Peeters, who has been very interested in this dossier. Ladies and gentlemen, while we are discussing the recommendations here, the car market is simply moving forward quietly. Policy makers at all relevant levels must now act decisively. With additional measures and control mechanisms, we must and will restrict fraud and prevent consumers from turning a blind eye. Let us continue to work constructively on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u117	Mr President, very briefly and without wanting to block the proceedings, could the government be asked to join us? In view of the work that has been done and the recommendations that are addressed to the government, it would be good if it could be represented.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u118	If we don't hear from the minister within three or four minutes, we'll start the research. Und jetzt, Frau Jadin.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u119	Mr President, thanks to you, ladies and gentlemen, especially to those who, over the past four months, have made a very substantial contribution to the outcome that we are presenting to you today through the 59 recommendations that we are proposing to this House. When the Dieselgate broke out, it quickly became clear that it was necessary to ensure that Belgians faced with engine manipulation of their vehicle could be properly informed, but also and above all that they could have all the tools necessary to protect their rights as consumers. To this end, ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Presidents decided at the end of October to set up our special committee. During the four months of its work, our committee was able to address successively a series of themes arising from this dossier. In addition to consumer protection, I am thinking of health and environmental issues, including fine particulate matter, NOx and CO2 emissions. I am also thinking of the European dimension. As we have noticed, it is absolutely essential in this case. I thank the rapporteurs for giving everyone some insight into the recommendations most discussed in our committee. I am also thinking of the forward-looking aspect that will have given us a glimpse of the future of automobiles and mobility. Colleagues, in the course of our work, we have addressed these different themes through a series of hearings that have allowed us to list a number of recommendations that we are addressing today to the federal government. Here I would like to thank all my colleagues for the very constructive work they have done, which has led to the result we know. Today, I would like to go beyond the role of President which I have been given to assume during these few months to go back to a few points to which the MR is particularly sensitive and which he felt important to defend during the committee's work. At the heart of our demands is the desire to ensure and strengthen consumer protection. We called for a reflection on extending the protection of the latter to all the victims of the Dieselgate. We were very inspired, Mr Nollet, because, as you said, we quickly realized that this scandal related to software rigging and diesel emissions was not just about Volkswagen but also about other car brands. This week's news gives us a new demonstration. Such an approach would be a real added value for the holders of liberal professions as well as for other professionals. It is also important to ensure that Volkswagen allows injured owners to bring their vehicles back and regularize them completely free of charge. It appears that this procedure is under way. We can only welcome this approach. We will also pay attention to the fact that the consumer does not pay for the bad behaviour of his manufacturer. It was important to make the consumer aware of the importance of being able to bring his vehicle back in the context of recall actions, in particular in order to stop the impact on health and the environment. In an effort to reach consensus, we have accepted – among the fifty-five recommendations we are submitting to you today – some measures that leave us somewhat sceptical. It is only to think of my colleague Senesael and the vigour of his remarks. In this regard, we are surprised that some of the trainings that have strongly advocated for reflection on whistleblowers have not yet found it useful, even though they had the opportunity to do so, to establish them in the public sector. I am thinking of the Brussels and Walloon regions or the French Community. Since 2004, Flanders has had similar schemes. As for the federal government, it has been three years since such a system was put in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u120	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u121	Our scepticism remains - as we said in committee at the hearings - as to whether it should be extended to the private sector. It will be surprising, moreover, that other training courses which plead with a great deal of enthusiasm for the establishment of such a system do not put it in place where they have the opportunity to do so. It seems to us more useful to evaluate its effectiveness in the public sector before applying it in the private sector. As I have announced, our scepticism is all the more justified because the Belgian private sector already has safeguards within which whistleblowers or similar mechanisms can evolve. I am thinking in particular of audit committees and non-completion mechanisms, several ad hoc legislation in the field of combating the financing of terrorism and money laundering, reporting mechanisms in the context of tax fraud, or provisions contained in the Belgian Code of Corporate Governance. To want to generalize this mechanism, which in my opinion can also lead to encouraging a form of delation, and to make it a rigid instrument, seems premature to us. Prior and in-depth consultation with the private sector is planned. That is what we held ourselves to in committee. It will of course also be an opportunity to discuss it further. It would also be important, ladies and gentlemen, to be able to take stock of the measures that will be taken by the federal government in the near future, beyond what has already been achieved. With the tax shift, the federal majority demonstrates its willingness to encourage less polluting behaviour, while supporting innovation to develop cleaner technologies. The implementation of the production of the new Audi Q6 electric vehicle model on the Forest site, which was also involved during our work in committee, is obviously good news, including for the jobs that can thus be maintained after the production of the Audi A1 on the same site has stopped. Zero-emission vehicles, i.e. electric vehicles but also other models, represent a real opportunity. We will therefore continue to advocate for the potential gain of alternative vehicles by promoting research and development in these different areas and by including this approach in a low-carbon electricity strategy. Moreover, the MR is prepared to discuss alternatives to the company car system as long as it is a credible and realistic alternative that does not penalize workers or employees. It would be important to take stock of the various avenues for reflection that the federal government could draw from by the end of the legislature. It should also be borne in mind, ladies and gentlemen – those who have worked in this committee know this – that the Regions have many tools to support the federal action: vehicle control, monitoring of recall actions, air quality protection and I am passing. Since the sixth reform of the State, they have had important levers. It is imperative that they can also take concrete steps, along with the recommendations we make today. Finally, it quickly became clear that the European level was certainly the most appropriate level to remedy the deficiencies revealed by the Dieselgate. That is why we wanted to advocate for a strengthening of standards and tools at European level. The federal government has worked and secured the adoption of a standard requiring manufacturers to provide information on the consumption and emission of pollutants for their vehicles, getting closer to the actual traffic conditions while helping to tighten the requirements in terms of real-world driving (RDE) tests, which was very useful as we were able to see on various occasions during the hearings. Of course, the agreement finally reached at European level could have been much more ambitious. But it was long overdue and this compromise between 28 Member States is an important first step. We are no less convinced that we will also have to advocate in the future for the tightening of these tests and, of course, standards. In addition to the question of standards and tests in real-life situations, it seems to us that one of the characteristics of Dieselgate was its massive character. It is the whole of Europe, not to say all the countries that have been affected by this scandal. We are calling for common consumer protection in Europe. This would protect us better than today, if only to assert the rights of our consumers in Europe, but also the rights to repair. This is also the case when one sees the difference in treatment that VW makes between injured American consumers and Europeans. Consumer protection law has already been regulated, for the most part, by various European standards. However, it would be appropriate to imagine that in a scandal of this magnitude, on a European scale, the positive steps taken by the company itself towards the customers of a Member State also apply to all the customers of the Member States of the Union. Greater transparency on comitology will also have to be achieved as provided for in the European institutional agreement. This subject has given rise to major debates in committee. This mechanism, far from involving the federal government alone, operates at all levels of power, including the Regions, and throughout Europe for many years. It would be sound to strengthen the dominance of policy on these a priori technical subjects but whose political stakes are never very far away. Work is continuing at Union level and we will be paying attention to the conclusions that the European Parliament will draw from the work of the committee of inquiry set up last December on the Dieselgate. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to stress that we are not against the car, but for another form of car, cleaner, less greedy for consumption, more respectful of the consumer, of health and of the environment, but which continues to be this extraordinary tool of freedom that it has always embodied. A car that, without dogmas, without hierarchy, will, in the near future, have to be part of a mobility offer that meets everyone's expectations and respects the freedom of choice. It is now up to public and private actors to build this mobility of the future by retaining the lessons of the Dieselgate. Our group will continue to propose concrete ways in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u122	I have a little question for you, Mrs. Jadin. I listened carefully to your interesting speech on behalf of the MR Group. I am astonished that you did not hear in the gallery specific elements... you were astonished too, but externally.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u123	But I talked about it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u124	Yes, but not consistent with that. We are still in a position to possibly add a recommendation that will allow you to integrate your astonishment with the fact that the European consumer, who is grazed in the same way as the American consumer, cannot benefit from the same compensation. We all regret it. Mr Senesael reminded us earlier of the amendments that have been tabled, and so have we. I say it to save time, knowing that other interventions are planned. Could we take advantage of the remaining interventions and use the time to work on an amendment? We must not necessarily take up Mr Seneseal's text, but his idea. We could add this 60th recommendation that would make sense if we wanted to make the words that surprise us coherent with what is really a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u125	I am not at all surprised at your proposal, Mr Nollet, not that I saw it coming, but I thank you for taking note of my astonishment. I am quite prepared to answer you, as I did in response to a question that was put to me at the beginning of the plenary session. Of course, that raises questions. Indeed, Volkswagen's production of cars distributed in Europe is significantly higher than in the United States and thus more consumers. However, since the judicial system of compensation is more restrictive and punitive in the United States, Volkswagen has decided, through a commercial approach, to propose compensation that it does not propose in Europe. That's amazing! What proposals and solutions have we already incorporated into the various recommendations we have made? It must be noted that judicial systems throughout Europe, with the possible exception of Great Britain, do not have the same coercive means to bring forward, for example, compensation proposals, such as Volkswagen in the United States. Therefore, strengthening and examining the effectiveness of the action class would be an important element, which would allow us to also have more coercive means in the future to avoid, Mr Nollet, compensation in that order. My astonishment is real. However, as I have just explained, it is also important to understand that we have different judicial systems that result in different results. This is a very important thing, when we make this direct comparison of the compensation paid in the United States with the compensation paid in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u126	Mrs Jadin, I will also speak in the gallery. But I'm overwhelmed by what's going on here. In committee, many of us have fought to try to be firm on a number of actions to be implemented to preserve the consumer affected by Volkswagen's attitude. But you and I are learning this morning that the American consumer is not treated in the same way as the European consumer. You see this in a press release two hours ago. I repeat: we have spent more than a dozen sessions hearing and working on resolutions, particularly on class action. My feeling is that things have been rather restrained by the way you worked, when we wanted to go much further. Today, you are turning your jacket in relation to this element. If you agree that Volkswagen is getting around the table and compensating both the European consumer and the American consumer, let us say that today in the resolution. It is still time to add an amendment and have it adopted. Let's stop stinging. Let's go! I am now opening an amendment to the signature in order to indicate this in the motion for a resolution that is voted on. We mustn't make fun of the world!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u127	Mr President, I would like to respond briefly to Mr de Lamotte if I am allowed to speak. It's a matter of respect. I think I've already taken stock of my astonishment and its reasons. We see a difference in treatment, but I explained that it was due to the different legal systems in the United States and Europe. Once again, Mr de Lamotte, I hear your proposal, but we have already had this discussion. How could the government allocate coercive means in this area? It's simply not possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u128	Mr President, we are in a position to reach an agreement to be consistent with the various points made. I know that a motion was co-signed earlier by the various colleagues. She said that the House endorsed the 59 recommendations. In addition to this motion, which was circulating a moment ago and which we may adopt at the end of the debate, as I hope, I will table on your desk a supplementary request, which reads: "In addition to the 59 recommendations, the House asks the Belgian Government to take steps to ensure that European consumers are compensated as a result of competition from what American consumers will receive." The aim is to avoid any ambiguity regarding the statements of each other. That is the spirit of Mr Senesael's speech. I would like to include this request in the suggestion for a final vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u129	Mr President, I apologize for getting involved in this debate when I did not participate in the committee, but I hear Mrs Jadin talking about elements of a legal nature to explain the difference in procedure between the United States and Europe. I heard her plead in her speech that the action class should be recognised in Belgium. Mrs Jadin, is there any evolution on the side of the MR in relation to this attitude? Under the previous legislature, we voted for an early class action. On the table of the Justice Committee, there are proposals tabled during the previous legislature and under this legislature. I'm thinking about the sp.a. Can I infer from your statement that the MR will finally be in favour of voting with those who have submitted texts to this effect aimed at establishing a class action in Belgium roughly equivalent to that of American law?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u130	Mr Brotcorne, your questions are interesting. If you had read the report – I think you did not do so with respect to the recommendations – you could have realized that, in our recommendations, we stressed the need to assess the effectiveness of the current legislation that dates from the previous legislature. Minister Vande Lanotte proposed it at the time. We call for an examination of the effectiveness of this law in order, if necessary, to see how the mechanism can be improved with a view to allowing more coercive actions, in particular for damages.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group, I would also like to thank the chairman, Mrs Jadin, as well as the reporters, the committee secretary and the staff of the various groups, who participated in the committee meetings and prepared everything so that we could do our work properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u132	Mr President, I do not need to repeat the history of the setting up of the committee. It is clear from last week's media reports and even today's reports that I am thinking of the Opel story on the VRT and the reports on Mitsubishi...................................................................................................................................................................................... Given the enormous impact on health and the environment in a country like ours, with a lot of diesel cars, it is all the more worrying that fraud and fraud have been organised on this scale. I attended the last meeting of the committee. I would like to thank Mrs Detiège, who is now absent, and Mrs Temmerman, who has followed the work in particular. I only tried to land with a certain consensus at the end, with the finish in sight. I would like to mention a number of points from the last sitting. Our group is satisfied with the aspect of the eco-score. When I was a kid, I had maps comparing car dynamometers based on speed and acceleration power. I hope that in the future children will compare car dynamometers on the basis of the ecological footprint, based on an ecoscore. Because of that score it is very easy for the user to compare. Secondly, I was surprised that it took so long to reach a consensus on our amendment on the mobility budget. After all, at the time of the debate on this subject, several parties had submitted legislative proposals and other parties in the press had stated that they considered the mobility budget to be very important. I was therefore very surprised that some groups initially rejected the amendment at all prices from the text and that they only wanted to include it as vaguely as possible afterwards. In the end, we have reached a consensus. I understand that in such committees, where unanimity is rightly sought, there is some vagueness. I shall read out paragraph 51 here, because that point certainly does not represent the great revolution we proposed in our amendment. I quote from the text, paragraph 51: "Ask the federal government to implement the government agreement within a reasonable time by creating, in consultation with the social partners, a legal framework for the mobility budget, within which commercial vehicles can be one of the possible choices, but also in which there are sufficient incentives to make as environmentally friendly a choice as possible. This must be done within a budgetary neutral framework for workers and employers." When I read that point again here, I still do not understand why it was so difficult to convince a certain group to include that passage in the text. In the end, the other members of the committee succeeded in convincing that group as well. A third element I would like to mention concerns our amendment with the clear question of including quantity requirements in SNCB's management agreements in addition to quality requirements. Ladies and gentlemen, if we really want to do something about the overcrowded roads and the pollution they cause, we must invest effectively in public transport. Not only must we, of course, give public transport the necessary resources; we must also impose quality and quantity requirements. That is why we have included this in paragraphs 54 and 55. I'm concluding. In general terms, this is a fine agreement, which we must now implement fully. With an agreement alone, with a paper alone, we are of course nothing, the consumer is nothing, the citizen in the street who cares about his health is nothing. Supporters of the report and the recommendations, like us, certainly see a number of elements coming back to it, in particular that Volkswagen is responsible and not the consumer and that Volkswagen should bear the costs. There is also a need for clarity about the adjustments and their impact on cars, so that the consumer knows where he or she is going. A code of conduct with sanctions must be drawn up and properly implemented. There is a clear demand to take into account all harmful substances emitted and their limitation. There is a demand to develop a clear score, the ecoscore, because it simply informs the consumer. There is a call for better account to be taken of the environment and public health when drawing up emission standards. An initiative is being launched to examine an alternative form of mobility, which will have to be translated into policy. I do not doubt that, because it was already included in the government agreement and the mobility budget is being worked out effectively. The greening of transport tax is also an important step. What element have we now agreed to, when we believe that a further step could have been taken? There are no clear, ambitious and effective commitments to tighten emissions rules as quickly as possible. It is good to take greater account of the environment and public health, but that should be the basis for further standards. There is also the compensation scheme, which we have just debated and which was also for discussion in the committee, as I learn from the reports. Moreover, such an arrangement was possible in the US. Even if that concept has not been achieved in committee, I am pleased that there is some openness and I am very curious how the majority will respond to the amendment that has now been tabled; hopefully it will be adopted. This is also a European debate. In our texts we call for the strengthening of European standards. I think this is a little too good. Instead of "Pleiten', the word "Pleiten' should have been replaced by "Pleiten'. Overall, this seems to me to be a positive step in the right direction. Our group will help to adopt the recommendations in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will focus on public health and health problems. I believe that my speech is complementary to that of my fellow Members who have already spoken. After all, nothing, or little, has been said about this. There has been a very clear link between fine dust emissions, especially from traffic, and health problems. Fine dust is the biggest environmental-related culprit. For example, fine dust is the direct cause of cardiovascular diseases and lung diseases such as asthma and lung cancer. The World Health Organization has calculated that every Belgian loses one healthy year of life due to exposure to too much fine dust in the air. A recent report by the European Environment Agency shows that in Belgium 11 000 cases of premature death have been caused by air pollution. The OECD concluded that air pollution will be the largest environmental cause in the world by 2050. Moreover, if we are told that software is being tampered with in motor vehicles, which in reality means that the real emissions of pollutants are much higher than is expected, this government cannot and cannot delay taking initiatives. I have put many parliamentary questions to the various ministers responsible in committee on this issue. However, I was sent from the locker to the wall. Either it was a shared competence, or it was a competence of the Regions, or it was too much for them to decide and they had not yet discussed it together. In short, umbrella dressings are very often raised. It is therefore very important that we have received very clear opinions from a number of experts in the hearings, and not from the least. I quote Professor Ben Nemery, Professor of Toxicology at KU Leuven: "The first principle is that people are entitled to clean air, just as they are entitled to clean water and clean nutrition. When people go to the store, people hope that they do not have to choose between a chicken with dioxin and a chicken without dioxin. There just can't be any dioxins. Just the same should apply to the air. Everyone has a right to clean air. Just let that clean air be a big problem in our country. A second group of experts, Frans Fierens and Luc Hens, from the High Health Council, has shown us very clear maps of the excesses of fine dust in our country. There are very clear zones along busy roads and busy streets, called street canyons. Let it be so that especially vulnerable groups such as children, prematures and pregnant women suffer additional burdens and disadvantages. A final group of experts, Greet Schoeters and Catherine Bouland, respectively from VITO and ULB, also explained a number of studies that show that there are three types of effects: short-term effects, which affect the airways, long-term effects and, again, effects during pregnancy, on organ formation of foetuses and, above all, effects on children. I would therefore like to conclude with a great deal of support for the three very important health objectives and recommendations of the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I fully support them. Our group has also fought hard for it. The first recommendation calls on the federal government to combat all forms of harmful emissions and to use them to reduce emissions. The second calls for the analysis of the impact of particulate matter on health to be strengthened and for more analyses to be carried out, with particular attention to all groups at risk. The third recommendation calls on the federal government to further investigate the impact of excessive NOX emissions from diesel cars on public health and to draw the necessary consequences in terms of health objectives that can reduce and prevent the impact of harmful emissions. The Minister for Health is not present at the moment, but I was very pleased that she said in the Committee on Dieselgates that she was not satisfied with the new emission standards set at European level. It has also recognised that air quality has an impact on the general health of people, that there are vulnerable target groups, that air quality must therefore be improved and that everyone, including this government, must take responsibility. She promised she'd work on health goals. I'll hold her to it. I'll keep her to myself. Ladies and gentlemen, know that you in our group can find a loyal ally to build on the policy of getting the air back clean in our country and, above all, to reduce the impact on public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u134	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this committee, which we have devoted a great deal of time to, leaves me with a feeling of work done, because we have done almost forty hearings in a short time. A very broad panel of auditioners has touched on all the issues that we believe are important: consumer protection, the environment, health and mobility. This is precisely the difficulty: succeeding in taking a look at the issue of Dieselgate, whose repercussions are enormous. These hearings have been very informative. Unfortunately, they have sometimes opened more doors than they have provided us with real answers. For example, these hearings have shown that Volkswagen's case is far from being an isolated case and that emission standards are frequently violated. Therefore, we could not limit ourselves to known cases and had to make broader recommendations for the whole sector. It is clear that emission standards, at the centre of our discussions, are one of the main elements of a necessary reform. The health effects of NOX emissions, but also of fine particulate matter, have been widely highlighted in terms of both public health and the environment. The consequences are astronomical. Although it is difficult to assess the precise effects, there are still several hundred additional deaths per year due to fine particles in some of the studies presented to us. Besides that, there are also cardiovascular diseases. These include a 25% increase in lung cancer risks near major roads. We can no longer allow our fleet to pollute our environment and reduce our life expectancy in this way. Our recommendations are therefore numerous in terms of reducing emissions of polluting substances, primarily in the automotive sector, but also in general with the Regions in order to improve air quality. I will not mention them all here, but I would just like to reiterate the importance of working to strengthen European standards on NOX and fine particulate matter, in particular with a view to reducing the margins of derogation approved here by Europe. Emission standards must be more respectful of public health and the environment. In fact, we make it clear in our recommendations. Europe must also carry out a major revision of the approval procedures. It is up to the Commission to take a first major step in tackling this reform, which will make it possible to revitalize the European project because the issue affects consumers a great deal. In particular, the committee calls for the toughening of the RDE tests and their extension to CO2, fine particles and other pollutants. Of course, the software in question must also be included in this revision. The approval tests shall be capable of including a verification of these tests. That is why access must be guaranteed. Controls must be reliable and comparable across Europe. Everything must be put in place to prevent manufacturers from finding subterfuges to pass between the meshes of the net. Many examples were cited. We also want to go even further by setting up a system of post-production control and random checks throughout the vehicle life cycle. In particular, this is a recommendation for which our group has argued. Reducing pollution must be one of our priorities. This is why an important part of our recommendations relates to mobility and the importance of reducing the use of private cars. The recommendations are broad and cover a number of areas, including the collective agreement on telework, incentives for the use of bicycles, the use of trains and boats for goods, and the need to provide the necessary means for SNCB to meet quality and quantity objectives. The need for a budget in terms of mobility to achieve all these objectives is essential in the very near future. Let's go back to the specific case of Volkswagen. Our recommendations are also numerous. We clearly call on the government, among other things, to make every effort to ensure that the recall procedures are properly carried out and that the inconveniences of refurbishing the vehicle are limited to the maximum. To date, information to injured consumers has sometimes been lacking. It is therefore necessary that, in the future, they are clearly aware of the procedures, but also of the precise content of the modifications that will be made to their vehicle. It is indeed Volkswagen's responsibility to inform the injured consumers as best as possible, but also to make them a sufficiently attractive proposal so that they can bring their vehicle back to order. This was crucial to us. Indeed, the responsibility lies not with consumers but with the company. But Volkswagen doesn't seem to be the only responsible brand. This is why the recommendations are also directed at requesting the federal government to continue the necessary investigations against any suspected builder. The government and parliaments must also draw consequences from this or these cases and make legislative changes in this area. In particular, our hearings have highlighted the need to review the Code of Economic Law, in particular the class action, so that in the future consumers are perfectly equipped to deal with such frauds. It is precisely in this area of consumer protection that my second feeling can be seen for the first time: a feeling of lack of ambition. Of course, we have heard a large number of people and, of course, we have discussed very important and very broad topics. But the resulting recommendations could have been one or even two or three more ambitious steps. Almost all the topics that our group has proposed for these recommendations can be found there, which is a positive point for us. However, unfortunately and very frequently, the majority took precautions using verbs such as examining, evaluating, investigating the potential... We would have much preferred verbs proving a real position and the departure of an action and not a simple openness to reflection. However, this commission was so important that there was a need for unanimous recommendations. That is why we supported them, with this regret of lack of ambition. First, the majority did not wish to see compensation for the injured persons, unless a loss of value of the vehicle is proven. But as D'Ieteren told us, at the moment this is not the case. Our commission also asked the government for an analysis of vehicle performance before and after compliance to determine a potential loss of value. Yes, there is tax compensation in case it is proven, and yes there is indeed the rehabilitation of the free vehicle, without the consumer being able to be punished. But there is no compensation as was offered to American consumers. For us, an American consumer is equal to a European consumer. Or rather the opposite. And a European Volkswagen is equal to a Volkswagen from the United States. The opening up of a dialogue with the automotive industry at European level on a possible set of measures that the sector could take to compensate for the excesses of emission standards in recent years has also been foreseen, which was necessary. We would have liked European consumers to be treated as American consumers. Of course, Volkswagen cannot be imposed directly in this area. The initiative is left to them. But if we had already been able to enter into a dialogue on this matter, that would have been a step forward. We regret the timidity of the majority on this point. It would have been essential to force Volkswagen to get around the table in order to reach an agreement on consumer compensation. It is not logical that American consumers should be compensated, not Europeans. It is clear that Volkswagen is denouncing the European consumer by its attitude. The company refused, in March, an amicable settlement with a Belgian consumer. She refused to take the car back at the purchase price and even refused her request to be informed correctly about the fate of the car. Should we therefore conclude that some members of the majority are also denouncing the consumer, because they do not want this compensation? We cannot, in any case, count on his good will. All we have to do is rely on justice to compensate all these injured people. Unfortunately, it's not that simple. Nevertheless, we can table a text in order to change the course of things. This is what we are studying for the moment and if texts already exist, they are timid. In the same vein, it is necessary to assess the desirability of setting up a monitoring of the evolution of car prices at resale, which has been reflected in our recommendations. Another evaluation! How can the impact be clearly determined if price monitoring is not put in place? My second regret concerns the need to act from a fiscal point of view in order to achieve more sustainable mobility. In this regard, the majority did not seize the opportunity. We would have liked the majority to take responsibility and commit themselves to a real tax shift. We have achieved a mobility policy that translates a real modal shift towards the smooth mobility of public transport and cleaner fuels. I quote a request to the government for a federal "greening" of taxes. We do not understand how the terms "real tax shift" are so difficult to accept. We hope, however, that the elements recorded will lead to a great deal of progress in this area. Thirdly, the committee highlighted the malfunctioning of the Technical Committee on Motor Vehicles. As a reminder, the representative of the Minister of Mobility was sent there without any mandate and decided to vote alone for NOx exemptions. That is why the committee has highlighted the need to review the functioning of these committees and, above all, to decide on a position before they meet. In this case, for example, the representative met with the representative of the regional administrations and did not or very little follow their position. We therefore regret that in these recommendations it has not been further specified that the opinion of the Regions should weigh in the balance and that it was a position of Belgium which the representative to Europe should take, not a position of the federal State alone. Fourthly, it is the issue of whistleblowers that we are delighted to see in these recommendations. Mr de Callataÿ, whom we have heard, highlighted in his presentation that some countries are far more advanced than we are in this area and that it is time to legislate to facilitate their application and avoid the offence in terms of defamation. All means must be put in place to prevent such fraud from happening again in the automotive sector but also in all sectors. I will conclude by recalling that most of these recommendations are addressed to the government. That is why we have planned the tabling by the end of 2016 of an action plan followed by annual hearings of the competent ministers so that these recommendations are not wishful thinking. With my group, I will be very attentive to the progress that will be made by this government following our recommendations. In the wake of the debate that has just taken place, we are putting forward a supplementary amendment to allow Volkswagen's requests for compensation to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u135	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 18 September 2015, the United States accused the Volkswagen Group of deliberately circumventing air pollution rules. Indeed, between 2009 and 2015, the German manufacturer equipped some diesel models with software to bypass emission tests. The German manufacturer acknowledged that 11 million vehicles around the world had been rigged using this spy software. In Belgium, 393,648 vehicles are driven with a handled engine. I see – this is an excellent thing – that many recommendations have been made in the framework of the Special Committee on Dieselgate. Let me repeat some of them in the light of the various themes raised in this committee. Firstly, consumer protection. As has been pointed out many times, the consumer is not responsible for this scandal. It was misled by the manufacturer. In no way should he suffer the consequences of the Dieselgate. In this respect, I particularly welcome recommendations Nos. 11 and 12 aimed at establishing a code of conduct including a sanctions mechanism, but also requiring that within the Volkswagen Group, faults and responsibilities be established. However, I ask myself the question of consumer compensation in this case. In today's press, it can be said that Volkswagen intends to pay $5,000 to every American customer who has acquired a vehicle with a fixed diesel engine. Therefore, why not provide for the same compensation mechanism for Belgian customers? In the chapter on Public Health, I refer in particular to Recommendation No. 18 of the text, which calls on the federal government to continue its analysis of the public health effects of excessive NOx emissions from diesel vehicles and to draw conclusions in terms of health objectives. While I welcome the recommendation, I also suggest that we go even further. In my view, an overall study of all emissions from diesel and petrol vehicles in Belgium could be carried out, with the term "excessive emission" referring exclusively to NOx emissions from the Dieselgate scandal. As far as the environment is concerned, at the meeting of the committee on 7 October 2015, Olivier Maingain had already highlighted the fact that the automotive sector is not the only sector where standards of control escape the vigilance of public authorities. Too often, standards of control are assigned to the business sector itself or to independent bodies directly funded by the professional sectors themselves. This inevitably raises the question of the independence and reliability of oversight bodies. Although part of the reflection is devoted to recommendations 28, 31 and 35, Olivier Maingain calls for a reflection that goes well beyond the control of standards in the automotive sector alone. In order to be effective, reflection should be carried out at European level, but this is not possible. In terms of mobility and taxation, I am a little more dubious. While the recommendations raised in committee must be welcomed, it must be noted that, since the beginning of the legislature, alternative mobility and environmental taxation have hardly been absorbed by the federal government. In Recommendation 51, for example, the committee asks the government to implement a legal framework for a mobility budget in which company cars could be one of the possible choices. This alternative should be fiscally neutral for workers and employers. No alternative to the company car is really foreseen in the reform announced by Mr Peeters, Minister for Employment. According to the OECD, the average annual subsidy per vehicle was €2,763 in Belgium. What alternative means can be used to compete with this subsidy? The bike? Public transport? In my view, the only measure to be taken in the context of the mobility reform is the modification or, in the long term, the abolition of tax incentives linked to the use of company cars.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u136	Mr President, my two colleagues have stressed the importance of the work that has been done. I myself had the opportunity, as rapporteur, to present the elements relating to consumer protection. I will begin by addressing you, Minister, since you are here with us. I assume you approve of these elements. The last two recommendations commit you and the government to table an action plan with a clear schedule by the end of the year. In the course of this debate, I would like you to confirm briefly that the government – many of your colleagues are affected by the problem, and we have received some in committee – will fully comply with this recommendation and table an action plan here in Parliament at the end of 2016. The timetable is relatively tight and we are aware of it. Then we will follow up every six months here in committee. For the rest, Mr President, I would like to return to the question of the amendment with Mrs Jadin. There is a simple possibility: you are accompanying the amendment that was created here in the gallery and you are saying that this additional recommendation, which we will call it in this way, even if it is technically worded otherwise, translates into the text what you have said outside this House and that you have repeated here in the gallery. Now the hour of truth is near. I am referring to the introduction, in the text we are voting on, of what is said outside and inside. If that is the case, things are quickly settled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u137	I'm reacting because you're calling me directly. Mr Nollet, I have already had the opportunity to say my astonishment, and I repeat, as regards the difference in compensation and the commercial approach, since it is a matter of commercial law, which VW reserves to its American and European customers. I have also referred to the causes that may have led to such behaviour across the Atlantic in relation to what exists on our continent. I keep that astonishment. I also maintain my dismay at this Volkswagen approach, but I do not see, Mr Nollet, how much this can involve the government. It is indeed a matter of strengthening the legal instruments, something which we have discussed at length in committee, as Mr de Lamotte reminded us earlier. The usefulness of reviewing the effectiveness of the Vande Lanotte Class Action Act is an essential element for this legal strengthening, first of all, to allow commercial approaches as we regret to see them in the United States. I will also be very clear, since I see that you have tabled an amendment, a supplementary text providing for a recommendation. In view of all the work we have all done together to reach a consensus on the recommendations, I would find it very sad if it could not succeed, despite the debate we have now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u138	Clearly, the commission has worked well. We know that. As far as we are concerned, Mr. Daniel Senesael has regularly provided us with a detailed progress report. You are right to say that it has not always been easy to reach consensus, but what is important is to have a consensus, to carry it out and to make the necessary reforms. It's obvious. I'm sorry you guys were playing alone later. Rather than defending collective work, you are surprised that European consumers are not on an equal footing with American consumers. Yes, but then, it's not just surprising; it's a little simple! Collectively, an answer must be given. That is why, Mr President, I think we need to find a consensus on a sixtieth recommendation. Many of us have tabled an amendment – and I would like it to have a consensus – calling on the Belgian government to take the necessary steps to ensure that European consumers are placed on an equal footing with American buyers. Either you agree right away, and we vote on it, or we send it back to committee to discuss its modalities. We're collective or we're not! We're going to the end or not! For our part, we wish this sixtieth recommendation, which, far from the hypocrisy of "astonishment", goes pragmatically right to the goal. Let us fight for European consumers!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u139	Mrs. Onkelinx, there is no hypocrisy. I have just explained the reasons – and I would like to do it a third or fourth time – it is not the government that will be able to determine Volkswagen's business approach. It's the role of law. It is the legal instruments that we have dealt with in committee that will allow this to happen. This is the subject of a specific recommendation. If you reread the work, you'll see it the same way I do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u140	When a company wants to fold luggage and risks putting hundreds of workers on the pavement, the government makes contacts, and discussions are taking place. How many times have we not brought together the social partners and representatives of the company in question around the table? Why does Volkswagen make a difference between Europeans and Americans? We are no less important than them!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a proposal. Indeed, after listening to you, I have come to the conclusion that it would be wiser to refer this amendment back to committee, even if in so doing the text under consideration would be voted on one week late. Is there a consensus on this? Since there is no vote against it, we shall do so. I suggest that we close the discussion on this now. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u142	Mr. Van Hees did not have the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u143	I will take the floor next Thursday.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u144	And I will give you the word in the first place!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u145	What an honor, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u146	We shall then return the amendment to committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u147	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 April 2016, I propose that a special committee be set up, in accordance with Rule 21 (3) of our Rules of Procedure, "international tax fraud/Panama Papers." In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 April 2016, I propose that, pursuant to Rule 21(3) of the Rules of Procedure, a special committee on international tax fraud/Panama Papers be set up. It shall be responsible for: - examine both the findings and the implementation of the 108 recommendations of the parliamentary investigation report of 7 May 2009 on major tax fraud cases (DOC 52 34/04) in the light of important dossiers such as Offshoreleaks, Luxleaks, Swissleaks and recently Panama Papers; - assess the status, efficiency and effectiveness of the Belgian anti-fraud policy, both in the judicial and fiscal field, and how plans to combat the tax fraud of the various governments have been implemented since 2009 and to develop an action plan to give additional impetus to the anti-fraud policy; - examine what additional measures can be taken in the fight against tax havens and offshore constructions at both national and European level, to carry out an in-depth investigation into Belgian policy on the conclusion of double taxation treaties, to draw up a clear definition of the concept of tax haven and to seek a common list in this field at international level (EU and OECD) with possible sanctions for blacklisted countries; - to examine the Belgian part of the Panama Papers in detail and to examine the role of certain advisers and other intermediaries, in particular financial institutions, as well as the supervisory professional federations and control bodies (FSMA and National Bank of Belgium); - examine the organisation, operation and efficiency of the various state services responsible for combating international tax fraud (including the FPS Finance, the FPS Justice, the financial sections of the public prosecutors, the federal police, the Central Office for Combating Organised Economic and Financial Delinquency (CDGEFID), the CFI (CEL for Financial Information Processing)) and in particular whether staff, financial and technical resources (including data mining/data matching) and the legal framework available to these services are adequate to combat international tax fraud and abuse of tax avoidance; - examine both the impact and the extent to which the OECD Action Plans, including BEPS (Base Erosion and Profit Shifting), the proposals of directives at European level and the recommendations of the European Parliament's TAXE Commission, can be implemented at Belgian level in the context of the fight against tax fraud and aggressive tax planning; - examine the measures already taken in the field of transparency and exchange of information at European and international level and how to strengthen the instruments for combating cross-border fraud. The Commission shall be responsible for: - to examine both the findings and the implementation of the 108 recommendations made in the Parliamentary Investigation Report of 7 May 2009 on major tax fraud cases (DOC 52 34/04), in the light of important issues such as OffshoreLeaks, LuxLeaks, SwissLeaks and, recently, Panama Papers; - to carry out an assessment of the status, effectiveness and firmness of the Belgian anti-fraud policy, both in its judicial and fiscal aspects and in the light of the Evaluate the implementation of the anti-tax evasion plans of different governments since 2009 and develop an action plan to give further impetus to the anti-fraud policy; - to examine what further measures can be taken to combat tax havens and offshore constructions at both national and European level, to examine Belgium's policy in the context of the conclusion of preventive double taxation conventions, to draw up a clear definition of the concept of tax haven and to work towards a common list of tax havens at international level (EU and OECD), with possible sanctions for countries on the blacklist; - to analyse in depth the Belgian aspects of Panama Papers and to examine both the role of certain advisers and other intermediaries and, in particular, the financial institutions, as well as the supervisory role of professional federations and regulatory institutions (FSMA, National Bank of Belgium); - examine the organisation, operation and effectiveness of the various State departments responsible for combating international tax fraud (including FPS Finances, FPS Justice, Financial Sections of the Public Prosecutor's Office, Federal Police, Central Office for Combating Economic and Financial Crime (OECDFO), Financial Information Processing Unit (CTIF)) and in particular whether human, financial, technical (including datamining/datamatching) resources and the legal framework available to them are adequate to combat international tax fraud and tax evasion abuses; - to examine both the impact and how the OECD action plans (in particular the BEPS or the Erosion and Profit Shifting Base, Erosion of the Tax Base and Profit Transfer), the proposals for directives adopted at European level and the recommendations of the European Parliament's TAX Committee can be implemented at Belgian level in the context of the fight against tax fraud and aggressive tax planning; - to examine what measures have already been taken in terms of transparency and exchange of information at European and international level and to verify how cross-border anti-fraud instruments can be strengthened. The special committee shall consist of 17 effective members, and by way of derogation from Rule 22 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, a single alternate per political group who shall sit on the committee. The other political groups may each appoint a member who shall participate, without voting rights, in the work of the special committee. The special committee is composed of 17 actual members, and in derogation from Rule 22, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, only one alternate member per political group represented in the committee. The other political groups may each appoint a member who will participate, without the right to vote, in the work of the special committee. The special committee will, if it deems it necessary, be able to hear and request documents. It will be able to call on experts. The committee meetings are in principle public. The committee itself lays down all the other rules relating to its operation which this text does not provide for, and will ensure that they comply with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives. The Special Commission shall hear the persons and request such documents as it deems necessary. It may call on experts. The meetings of this committee shall in principle be public. The Committee shall lay down all rules of operation which are not provided for in this text, without prejudice to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. The Conference of Presidents also proposes that if this special committee "international tax fraud/Panama Papers" conflicts with the limits imposed by the powers of a special committee, the Chamber should set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry. The Conference of Presidents also proposes that if the limitations of the powers of a special committee hinder the task of the special committee on international tax fraud/Panama Papers, the Chamber should establish a parliamentary committee of inquiry. The Special Committee will start its work in the week of 25 April 2016 and end them by the end of calendar year 2016. The special commission will begin its work in the week of 25 April 2016 and finish it by the end of the 2016 calendar year. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u148	I propose that the special committee on 'international tax fraud/Panama Papers' be set up. I propose that you proceed with the composition of the Special Committee on International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers. The special committee shall consist of 17 effective members appointed by the Chamber of Representatives among its members, according to the rule of proportional representation of the political groups. The Commission shall consist of 17 effective members appointed by the House of Representatives from among its members in accordance with the rule of proportional representation of political groups. An alternate shall be appointed by political group. He shall be appointed one alternate member per political group. The other political groups may each appoint one member who, without the right to vote, participates in the work of the special committee. The other recognized political groups may each appoint a member who will participate, without the right to vote, in the work of the special committee. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, the distribution of this committee is as follows: I would point out that, in accordance with Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, the allocation of this committee is as follows: - N-VA: 4 - PS: 3 - MR: 3 - CD&V: 2 - Open Vld: 2 - sp.a: 1 - Ecolo-Green: 1 - cdH: 1 The chairmen of the political groups have sent me the applications of the members of their political groups who will be part of this committee. The presidents of the political groups have sent me the nominations of the members of their group who will make up this committee. N-VA
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u149	- Peter Dedecker. - Robert Van de Velde - Johan Klaps - Brecht Vermeulen
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u150	Sophie De Wit PS
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u151	- Ahmed Laaouej - Stéphane Crusnière - Eric Massin.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u152	Frédéric Daerden MR
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u153	- Vincent Scourneau - Benoît Piedboeuf - Gautier Calomne
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u154	Benoît Friart CD&V
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u155	- Eric Van Rompuy - Roel Deseyn
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u156	Griet Smaers Open Vld
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u157	- Luk Van Biesen - Katja Gabriels
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u158	Ine Somers sp.a
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u159	Peter Vanvelthoven
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u160	Dirk Van der Maelen Ecolo-Green
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u161	Georges Gilkinet
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u162	Kristof Calvo cdH
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u163	Benoît Dispa
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u164	Christian Brotcorne Members without voting rights / Members without voting rights: - Jan Penris (VB) - Olivier Maingain (DéFI) - Marco Van Hees (PTB-GO!) - Aldo Carcaci (PP) Since the number of admissible candidates corresponds to the number of seats to be taken to the political groups which have nominated candidates, it is not necessary to vote in accordance with Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of eligible candidates corresponds to the number of places to be given to political groups that have nominated candidates, there is no vote in accordance with Rule 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure. I hereby declare elected candidates who have been nominated. Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated elected. The committee will meet in the Europe room immediately after the plenary session. Colleagues, I should like to announce that the government has called for urgency for a bill to fund end-of-care measures for members of the local police (1751/1). This request for urgency has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u165	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 April 2016, I also propose that you consider: - the bill of Mrs Nathalie Muylle and Mrs Els Van Hoof amending the law of 14 July 1994 on compulsory medical care and benefits, as regards the maximum invoicing for patients admitted to a psychiatric hospital (No. 1777/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u166	- Mrs Sonja Becq's proposal to amend the Civil Code in order to anchor the child's right to non-violent education and to ban any form of violence against children (No. 1778/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u167	- the draft law of Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mrs Leen Dierick amending the bankruptcy law of 8 August 1997 and introducing the Central Register Solvency (No. 1779/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u168	- Mrs Els Van Hoof's legislative proposal amending the Royal Decree of 20 June 2002 on conditions for the operation of solar power stations with regard to the compulsory registration of solar power stations (No. 1780/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u169	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 April 2016, I also propose that you take into account: - Mrs Nathalie Muylle's and Els Van Hoof's bill amending the Act of 14 July 1994 on compulsory health care and allowances insurance, as regards the maximum amount to be charged for patients admitted to a psychiatric hospital (No. 1777/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u170	- Mrs Sonja Becq's bill amending the Civil Code with regard to the child's right to non-violent education and the prohibition of all forms of violence against him (No. 1778/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u171	- Mr Servais Verherstraeten's proposal for a law amending the Bankruptcy Act of 8 August 1997 and introducing the Central Register of Solvency (No. 1779/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u172	- Mrs Els Van Hoof's proposal for a law amending the Royal Decree of 20 June 2002 on the conditions for the operation of tanning centres (No 1780/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u173	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I also suggest that you consider: - the proposal by Mr Georges Gilkinet, Mr Kristof Calvo and Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and Mrs Meyrem Almaci to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to bring forward recommendations on the fight against major tax fraud in the light of the major fraud cases brought to light, in particular the Panama Papers (No. 1781/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u174	- the legislative proposal of Mrs Fabienne Winckel, Mr Jean-Marc Delizée, Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mr Paul-Olivier Delannois concerning planned ageing (No. 1783/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u175	I also propose that you take into account: - the bill of Messrs. Georges Gilkinet, Kristof Calvo and Jean-Marc Nollet and Mrs Meyrem Almaci to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to update the recommendations on the fight against major tax fraud, in the light of the major fraud cases brought to light, in particular the "Panama Papers" (No 1781/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u176	- the draft law of Mrs Fabienne Winckel, Mr Jean-Marc Delizée, Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mr Paul-Olivier Delannois on programmed obsolescence (No 1783/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u177	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u178	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Finance and Budget Committee on 12 April 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Finance and Budget Commission of 12 April 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 117/1): A motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Marcel Cheron and Gilles Vanden Burre; A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Gautier Calomne, Peter Dedecker and Eric Van Rompuy. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 117/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Marcel Cheron and Mr Gilles Vanden Burre; A simple motion was tabled by Mr Gautier Calomne, Mr Peter Dedecker and Mr Eric Van Rompuy. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put that motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u179	Yes 77 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u180	This inquiry was developed in public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture of 13 April 2016 This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for Business, Science Policy, Education, the National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture of 13 April 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 119/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Muriel Gerkens; - a simple motion was tabled by Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and Kattrin Jadin and Benoît Friart. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 119/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Muriel Gerkens; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and Mr Kattrin Jadin and Mr Benoît Friart. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put that motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u181	Mr President, I would like to draw the Minister's and colleagues' attention once again to the fact that, for the time being, the fate of organic farming and organic farming labelling is being discussed at European level, aiming at contamination and the presence of the lowest possible or no unauthorized products. Mr Minister, in committee, you have told us that you are defending pure organic farming, with the withdrawal of the label for those presenting contaminated products. In this regard, you replied in committee that you would first take notice of the motion before answering me. I say in the motion that, in the event of contamination of a production of organic farming, it is not up to the organic farmer alone to bear the costs and costs of disqualifying his production. It is the responsibility of the producer of non-organic agriculture (pesticides and other), responsible for the contamination, to assume and participate in the costs. It is a polluter-pays responsibility that Belgium must defend in the European Council of Ministers, since that is where the decision will be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u182	Mr President, since I was in committee at that time, I would like to make it clear that the Minister had responded with great clarity and detail to Mrs Gerkens' questions about Belgium's position on this issue at European level. However, in June 2015, the Latvian Presidency called for greater autonomy of the Member States and greater flexibility of controls. The Minister opposed this and called for harmonisation among all Member States so that all products bearing the organic label meet the same criteria. He had also called for a strengthening of the level of requirements to better protect the consumer. Unfortunately, a qualified majority of Member States had endorsed the proposal of the Minister and the Latvian Presidency. For example, the Minister indicated in his reply that he would table a new proposal in June, as there will be a new Council of Ministers in June. In your reply in committee you thanked the minister for his very strong response in favour of organic farming. However, you have maintained your motion and we are astonished at it. That is why we are tabling a simple motion today. I invite my colleagues to vote in favour of this simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u183	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u184	Yes 78 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u185	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service of 13 April 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 13 April 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 123/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Emir Kir; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koen Metsu. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 123/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Emir Kir; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Koen Metsu. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u186	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u187	Yes 78 Yes No. 56 No Abstentions
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u188	Abstensions Total 135 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u189	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service of 13 April 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 13 April 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 125/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Nawal Ben Hamou and MM. Stéphane Crusnière and Emir Kir; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koen Metsu. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 125/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou and Mr Stéphane Crusnière and Mr Emir Kir; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Koen Metsu. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u190	Mr President, I have indeed asked the Prime Minister about the return of controls at our country's internal borders, border controls with France. The way this has been done is deplorable, without any respect for European rules and above all without consultation with France. We even approached a diplomatic incident. For my group, this is an unacceptable attack on the Schengen area, which, although some believe, constitutes an inalienable basis for the European project. These measures have just been lifted. We can be happy about that, but our concern for the future remains great. That is why these motions have been tabled. Yes, we are calling for a strengthening of Schengen's external borders, but in order to do so, we also need a European solidarity response, both to deal with the refugee crisis and their compulsory relocation, and to provide them with a dignified welcome that respects humanitarian law. We also welcome the European Commission's proposal to create a European Border Guard. In the motion, we also asked the government to plead within the Council that the European Union should continue the rescue action in the Mediterranean. We've seen in the last few days that it's still very topical. We also called on the Council to advocate in order to speed up the relocation of refugees and to sanction the Member States that are holding back the European relocation policy, as endorsed by the Council. We also called for an increase in Belgian humanitarian action in Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey in refugee camps. We asked to plead within the Council in order to create legal channels for asylum and migration allowing migrants to reach Europe without endangering their lives. In conclusion, we asked to plead within the Council to determine a new and true common and solidarity European migration policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u191	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 79 Yes No. 56 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u192	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service of 13 April 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 13 April 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 128/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Laurette Onkelinx; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Richard Miller. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 128/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Laurette Onkelinx; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Richard Miller. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u193	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u194	Yes 78 Yes No. [[55]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 134 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Mrs Gerkens voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u195	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service of 13 April 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 13 April 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 130/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Michel de Lamotte; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koen Metsu. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 130/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Michel de Lamotte; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Koen Metsu. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u196	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u197	Yes 79 Yes No. 56 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u198	This interview was held at the public meeting of the External Relations Commission on 13 April 2016. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the External Relations Committee on 13 April 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 131/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Rita Bellens and Mrs Els Van Hoof and by Mr Richard Miller. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 131/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms Rita Bellens and Ms Els Van Hoof and Mr Richard Miller. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u199	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that I have had an interplay on the lack of freedom of the press in Turkey, but the situation is getting worse so quickly that I am making another attempt to ask for more action from the government than the passive permanent state of concern, in which people have been wallowing for some ten years now. The incidents are getting more and more gruesome. At the newspaper Zaman, the editorial offices were emptied with water cannons and tear gas, to turn a critical newspaper into a pro-Erdogan newspaper. From another opposition newspaper two journalists were put in prison and they are now risking life sentences. In fact, for a lifetime there is just over the average of 15 years in our country. Meanwhile, Erdogan's censorship has consequences not only in Turkey itself, but also in the rest of Europe. During the last week, we were able to follow the whole discussion about Böhmermann in Germany, a comedian who, thanks to Erdogan, has not only withdrawn his performances and broadcasts in Germany, but is already living in hiding there. Today I could even hear that the Turkish consulate in Rotterdam is e-mailing and writing to the Turkish organisations in the Netherlands to summon them to report insults to Erdogan. In other words, a hotline for insults to Erdogan is being set up in the Netherlands. State interference, which has now become normal in Turkey, is now becoming the norm in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, for once, I ask you not to crawl before Erdogan. Making crooked deals with a man is one thing, but if you really mean it with the right to freedom of expression and freedom of the press, the values and standards that you are so committed to, then you must strongly condemn it. That's what I'm asking in my motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u200	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u201	Yes 86 Yes No. [[45]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 133 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Mrs Schepmans voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u202	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u203	Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1646/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1646/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u204	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 124 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (598/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (598/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u205	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1638/5) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1638/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-21-54-plenair-ip107x.u206	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 28 April 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, April 28, 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. If possible, we will conclude our examination of the report of the Dieselgate Committee. Colleagues, the installation of the special commission "Panama Papers" will be made by the first Vice-President of the House – whom I thank – in room 2. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 28 April 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday 28 April 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
