ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u1	Madam Secretary of State, my question dates from the end of last year and is based on an article in which Rik Torfs, the rector of the University of Leuven, raised a problem. Through BELSPO, both Flemish and French universities receive funding to meet the needs of foreign EU students. The special law of 1989, which imposes this obligation, allocates resources on the basis of the number of students in 1989 as follows: about 80% of French-speaking universities compared with 20% of Dutch-speaking universities. Since 1999, we have seen a difference in the proportion of students, which is 33% compared with 66%, but the distribution of resources has remained the same. As a result, the Flemish universities have already missed several millions, the rector sued. You then responded by saying that you would thoroughly examine BELSPO in that year. That is why I wanted to come back to that at the end of last year. Madam Secretary of State, what are the results of the BELSPO screening? What are the possibilities of correcting the imbalance in the current subsidy amounts without touching the special law? After all, that was agreed. What steps can and will you take in the file?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u2	Ms Bellens, the grants for the financing of university education for foreign students are arranged on the basis of a key laid down in Article 62 of the Special Law of 16 January 1989 on the financing of the Communities and the Regions, as amended by Article 40 of the Special Law of 13 July 2001. That article nominatingly sets out the figures for the Flemish Community, EUR 27 662 438.42, and for the French Community, EUR 56 162 756.97. Those amounts shall be adjusted annually to reflect the average change in the retail price index. The appropriations are entered in the budget of the Science Policy PPS, but within that administration there is no margin for policy on the implementation of their payment. This means that the funds will not be paid directly to universities but will be paid to the French Community and to the Flemish Community in the form of monthly grants. In short, universities are financed for their needs regarding foreign students, respectively from the budget of the French Community and the Flemish Community. Unfortunately, since the mechanism for determining the level of donations is laid down in a special law, it is only possible to derogate from this by means of a special legislative amendment. In other words, once again, I conclude that the sixth state reform is not conclusive, far from it, and that the removal of the Interuniversity Attraction Poles means that an important federal funding of the universities goes to the Communities, on which we are satisfied, but that the students have not been considered. I'll take that determination to the future, and I hope you will.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u3	Madam Minister, as you yourself see, it is once again a pity that such distortions exist. I'd like to get the numbers on paper from you, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u4	That's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u5	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, my question is in keeping with the one I addressed to you on February 10. For unknown reasons, it has been slow to reach you, which means that it may be a little out of step. This is the request for the restitution of works of art carried away by the Napoleonic army and which today make the French museums happy. I like French museums, but there is no justification for them to show Rubens or Rembrandt taken in the Netherlands or Belgium. I led a campaign within the Wallonia-Brussels Federation – the president will remember that, since we were sitting together at the time – and the assembly unanimously decided to proceed with a request for restitution concerning a painting of Rubens stolen by the French troops at the Cathedral of Tournai. There is evidence that this painting was ordered by the church factory and was paid by the Tournaisians. The property does not pose any questions but the work is exposed to the museum of Nantes, while it would be better in Tournai. I know that these are complex problems and that countries are reluctant to embark on restitution procedures. You replied: "This problem being always examined in case not case, i.e. work of art per work of art, it seems to me advisable to carry out a more systematic study based on these cases." Where are you then in the painstaking work you were announcing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u6	Dear colleague, on 15 July and 30 November 2015, experts and representatives of the Communities and the federal government addressed the issue of cultural property lost under French rule. At the meeting held at my office, it was agreed to conduct a systematic historical study of the paintings and sculptures that have disappeared in the past, as well as of any other cultural property that this study could teach us about. The intention is to create an up-to-date inventory of all factual information relating to each of the works examined. I entrusted this scientific study to the Royal Institute of Artistic Heritage, the most appropriate centre of expertise among the federal scientific institutions under my authority. Historians and art historians will contribute to this study, which will begin in 2016. Historical and legal facts will also be specified in terms of ownership and possession, according to the international legal bases in force. The study as a whole will be conducted for two years. Once this study is completed, an international symposium will be organized at which we can discuss the results announced.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u7	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. You did what you told me. This is already a first reason for satisfaction. The second reason for satisfaction is that you have chosen the right method. Indeed, requests for restitution on a case-by-case basis were not sufficiently effective. Consideration should be given to how to use the results of the study and the symposium. As far as diplomacy is concerned, a number of questions and questions have been addressed in our Assembly to various foreign ministers, including Mr Reynders. They all said that they were ready to take the step, provided they had something in hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u8	Madam Secretary of State, in its current form, the Science Policy PPS has a complex relationship with federal scientific institutions (FSIs). At the same time, it is involved in political direction, financing decisions, management and administrative support. In this regard, precisely, the government agreement provides that the Science Policy PPS will be integrated elsewhere as a Directorate-General and, to this end, a vision note on the empowerment of FSEs and the overall reform of the Science Policy PPS was to be submitted to the government by the end of 2015. Madam Secretary of State, can you tell me if this note has been submitted to the government? If so, what does it show? If not, when is it planned? Can you tell me if it is possible to have a copy of this note?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u9	Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, the vision note you are talking about has not yet been submitted to the Council of Ministers. The note is temporarily finalized and we are busy discussing it in an intercabinet working group. This is the subject of discussion within the government. We intend to submit it as soon as possible to the Council of Ministers for approval. The vision note fits perfectly with my political guidance note of which it is a concrete emanation. As long as the discussion is under way, the note cannot be made public.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u10	I totally understand. These are files that are important to me and I will come back to you in about six weeks to see how this issue has evolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u11	An intercabinets working group was held yesterday and the next one will be held next week. In a few weeks, we should have made good progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u12	I'll come back with this question, and by then I'll give you time to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u13	Madam Secretary of State, one of the ten federal scientific institutions concerns the General Archives of the Kingdom and the Archives of the State in the provinces. The objective is to increase internal storage capacity, make security copies and acquire a new management system for the longer-term preservation of archival collections. In this regard, I have read in your policy note that, with regard to records retention guidelines, you will introduce new technical standards by ministerial order and circular to federal departments and institutions by the beginning of 2016. Madam Secretary of State, has the introduction of the new technical standards already taken place? If so, how are these implemented? If not, when will they see the day?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u14	Ms. Cassart-Mailleux, the circular and ministerial order on technical standards and basic rules to be met by federal public services, public programming services and services that depend on the federal government when moving into storage facilities for archival purposes have not yet been published. In recent weeks, a working group composed of experts from the Régie des Bâtiments, the Centre scientifique et technique de la Construction et des Archives de l'Etat has prepared a draft text for a ministerial decree. On 15 December 2015, the finalized text was submitted to my firm for action. On 13 January 2016, a meeting was held with the relevant departments and offices to evaluate the text. The comments were incorporated into the final draft text. Meanwhile, a draft circular was also discussed by the working group at its meeting on 12 February 2016. I hope that this dossier will be closed in March 2016 so that the circular and the ministerial decree can be published as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u15	Minister, thank you for the clarification and the answers you have given to my questions. I also think that this is a case that should be followed up. Work is moving forward and I'm happy about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u16	Question No 9032 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u17	Madam Secretary of State, the integration of the Centre d'Études et de Documentation Guerre et Sociétés contemporain (CEGESOMA) as an operational directorate within the General Archives of the Kingdom was to be carried out by 1 January 2016, since the principle had been approved by the programme law of 24 December 2002. Madam Secretary of State, can you tell me whether the integration of CEGESOMA into the General Archives of the Kingdom has been achieved? Why did this integration take several years since the programme law was passed in 2002?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u18	Madam Secretary of State, I am not going to repeat what has just been said. The CEPESOMA maintains its location and staff, but I am concerned about its autonomy and its long-term future. We fear, in parallel with the reform of the Memorandum announced by Minister Vandeput, that the coup at CETESOMA is in line with this government's general tendency to simply dismantle federal science policy. Therefore, why did you choose to implement such a reform? What are your arguments for this integration? You announce in the press that "through this decision, an important step has been taken towards better preservation and accessibility of archives essential to our knowledge of the Second World War". How is this decision positive for the accessibility of these archives and the autonomy of CEGESOMA? We are not against the rapprochement and logic of poles, but we want CEGESOMA to maintain its full capacity to carry out all its tasks. It is on this point that we have many concerns.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u19	Ladies, as regards the legal basis for integration, the Act amending Article 419 of the Programme Law of 24 December 2002 was adopted in plenary session on 17 December 2015. The two implementing decrees, the royal decree laying down the rules and procedures and the ministerial decree laying down the organization chart of the General Archives of the Kingdom, are ready, but the procedure for administrative and budgetary control is not yet fully finalised. I anticipate that the two orders can be signed and published in the course of February 2016. Although the integration of CEGESOMA as the fourth operational direction is not a complex process, many practical cases still had to be resolved so that, after 1 January 2016, the General Archives of the Kingdom would also remain in compliance with the current management rules and they could pay the invoices and staff of CEGESOMA. The rights of CEGESOMA staff should be safeguarded and continuity of operation and services guaranteed. Before the end of last year, the most urgent points of attention were discussed and implemented, i.e. the integration of accounting and the mutual harmonisation of all financial management instruments, the validation by the Finance Inspectorate and the signing of amendments to the employment contracts of the CEGESOMA employees and the transmission of transfer extracts to the Central Fixed Expenditure Service in the context of the transfer of staff, the preparation of the recognition of the ASL Vrienden van het CEGESOMA (Friends of CEGESOMA) and the preparation of the extension of the contract with the ARISTA external prevention services to CEGESOMA staff. A consensus was reached quite quickly on the reorganization of the Budget and Control service and on the provisional support of the integration process by a number of CEGESOMA employees, particularly in the area of HR and IT. This was followed by consultation. It covered the future role of the CEPESOMA Scientific Committee, the organisation of the survey and the survey agenda for the coming years, publication policy, digital services, the investments needed to modernise the digital and communication infrastructure and the various aspects of collection policy. The consultation continued after 1 January. It is expected that by the end of the month most attention points will be emptied and solutions put forward for the remaining pitfalls. I am thinking, among other things, of the implementation of labour regulations, of a regulation for the reading room and of a regulation on the pricing of products and services throughout the establishment. The political will to decide and mandate the various actors to implement integration has been lacking in the past. It was only after the political agreement of this government that the effective work of the integration process could begin in such a way as to sustain the missions and staff of CEGESOMA. The 2002 Programme Act already provided for the institution to be attached to the State Archives. Unfortunately, the execution orders were never taken. The survival of CEGESOMA remained uncertain because it lapsed on the threshold of the legislature. Therefore, in view of this hardly idyllic situation when it comes to carrying out long-term scientific research projects as well as the very critical remarks made by the Finance Inspectorate, it seemed to me appropriate to offer a way forward to CEGESOMA by permanently attaching it to the State Archives. This decision has been made easier by the fact that the two entities carry out some of the same tasks without being identical, carry out joint research projects, and by the knowledge and appreciation of staff members. Moreover, the operational management of the State Archives has a very wide autonomy in terms of defining scientific priorities and seeking complementary funding within the framework of legal prescriptions. In addition, their missions will be extended to those which CEGESOMA has so far carried out. With regard to the preservation and communication of archives, CEGESOMA will be able to count on the long and rich expertise of the State Archives and benefit from the investments that will be made through the establishment of a new search engine and participation in international portals, such as the European Archives Portal (portaleurope.net archives). Similarly, the dynamics of digitisation of archives and their dissemination to a wide audience will be strengthened by the use and maintenance of common tools.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u20	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. We want to have the assurance that the CEPESOMA can continue its missions and amplify them, notably through an alliance with the Archives – which we therefore do not question. The important thing is that it is not swallowed by the latter. Indeed, the Memoir must remain a federal jurisdiction, which is that of an entire country. It cannot, therefore, be divided within internal boundaries. That was the concern I wanted to talk to you about. I think you answered that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u21	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u22	Mrs. Caprisse told us she was on her way. We can follow the agenda or give the floor to Mrs Lalieux for her question No 8959 if MM. Calomne and Dallemagne don't mind... that's right, you have the floor, Mrs. Lalieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u23	Minister, the Museum Night Fever, it is a remarkable night where all the museums are open in Brussels. Thousands and thousands of people visit museums, especially since there are also performances, other events that take place in museums. Many people thus enter museums where they would never have gone under other circumstances. The image of these Brussels federal museums is thus valued. And the Brusselsers go there, while usually you don't visit your own museums. I have learned, you will tell me whether it is true or not, that for 2016, the Mim can still participate in this Night of Museums, but for 2017, given the financial conditions, the Mim will no longer be able to participate because it would amount to a surplus of guarding of 1,000 euros. Minister, have you really made this decision to ban participation in the Museum Night Fever for budgetary reasons?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u24	With respect to your first two questions about the cost of the Night Fever Museum and nighttime at the Music Instruments Museum, I can tell you that these costs are much higher than you think. In accordance with the Rules of the House, I submit to you in writing the costed portion of the revenues and expenses related to the two events in 2015. There they are. I will also communicate these figures to the House so that they can be incorporated into the official report. This committee is therefore not intended to go through all these figures, but I can give you a brief summary of them. The entire organization of the Museum Night Fever cost, net of income, 9,080 euros per mim. As for Nocturne in 2015, it recorded a loss of 1,020 euros. In view of the above, the management of the Royal Museums of Art and History, to which the Mim came, decided once again to organize the Night Fever Museum in 2016 and to move the Nocturne to the 50th anniversary, to the main building of the MRAH. The costs and benefits of these two events will be carefully assessed. Based on this assessment, management will decide what will happen to these two events in 2017, but I would like to point out that the management of the institution has taken this decision independently, in accordance with its financial responsibilities. I stayed completely out of this decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u25	Thank you, Madam Minister. To be eschewed from culture, I find that there are many cultural institutions on the city of Brussels to participate. I wish you would be present at this Night Fever Museum that will be held in a few weeks. It is a remarkable event for Brussels but especially for museums. Culture is not always about costs and benefits. I know you're making drastic cuts in cultural institutions. I think it's a bad choice. I already told you. I sincerely believe that this Night is access to culture for many people who never go to the museum. If this is not your goal, I believe it must be the goal of any government that loves and supports culture. If I read correctly, the cost-benefit ratio is actually EUR 1 000. A thousand euros a year for an event like this, in the centre of the city, for the image of Brussels, I think it is a sacrifice that must not be made. I'm going to write to the management of these museums because decentralizing them to the 50th anniversary is not a good idea. There is a central dynamic. All museums are in the centre of the city and all participate, all levels of power combined. At the 50th anniversary, there's no one there. I find it a very bad decision or a lack of knowledge of this new direction in relation to the museum dynamics.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u26	Madam President, I tabled my question in the course of December. Since then, things have changed a little. Mr. Miller asked a topical question three weeks ago. I will try to adapt my question. Madam Secretary of State, in December 2015, you announced that it was not possible to allow the reception and presentation to the public of the federal collection of modern art in the former Citroën garage, acquired by the Brussels Region to make it a museum pole in the canal district in Brussels. So you said that this building was not adequate to house a museum, and you also added that there was no longer any question of placing the collection in the former Vanderborght stores in Brussels, or even in the recent Museum End of Century, as you had mentioned at one point. In this respect, it seems that today you prefer the reopening of the Museum of Modern Art in a space of 3,000 m2 located rue de la Régence in Brussels. That is the meaning of the answer you gave to Mr Miller in plenary session. This space should be renovated by the Federal Buildings Authority. Madam Secretary of State, could you give us the precise reasons and reasons why the former Citroën garage and the former Vanderborght stores were not considered satisfactory by your services to host the collection? Can you confirm your choice of relocating works of art to the site on Rue de la Régence and, if so, is there a government agreement on this? I should like to recall the latest decision of the Council of Ministers on the re-establishment of the former Vanderborght stores. Has the government made another choice or is it planning to make another one in the near future? In the event of a sealed choice, is there an estimated budget for the implementation of this project and at what time will the collection be visible again in these buildings? I would like to touch on one last point which is that of the project supported by the Brussels government. Could you give me an overview of the contacts that have taken place between your office and that of the Brussels Minister-President on the reception of the federal collection in the Citroën Museum? Has an official notification been sent to them regarding the absence of any response to the idea of a loan of works between the federal and the Region? Thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u27	Madam Secretary of State, I am not going to repeat everything my colleague has said very well. I participated in the agreement of the previous government between the Régie des Bâtiments, the Scientific Policy and the City of Brussels on the former Vanderboght stores, with a view to considering as soon as possible the presentation to the public of the collection of modern art and a little contemporary art. The budget was made and the City of Brussels respected this agreement and this notification from the government since we had entered into a contract for the renovation of the envelope of the former Vanderborght stores, which is waiting to be awarded. Without the approval of the federal government and without a formal decision to the contrary, it is difficult for us to award this market for a future museum. How do you justify the decision not to use the old Vanderborght stores? In a discussion I had with Mr Jambon, he said that this was the cheapest solution and that a study by the Régie des Bâtiments should be carried out on the cheapest solution. I'm still waiting for this study, along with a government decision. How do you justify not entering into a dialogue with the Brussels Region regarding the Citroën garage at all? The loan of works of art makes the liveliness of our museums. They lend works of art all over the world. It would be particular if they did not lend them to a Region and a place that are located right next to these museums. Have you vetoed a collaboration between federal museums and the future museum of contemporary art located in the Citroën garage? Has the Council of Ministers formally taken the decision not to work with the Brussels Region? With what means will the renovation of the rooms of the present museums be carried out? Do you have an estimate of the cost of this work for the collection of modern art and some contemporary art? How long will this work be completed? When can the collections finally be shown to the general public?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u28	From the start, my intention was to relocate the collection of modern art, attached to the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium (MRBAB), within the same institution. Modern art cannot be dissociated from ancient art since it results in federal collections being maintained as a whole. The "extensions" rooms so named within the MRBAB, are suitable for presenting the collection of modern art. As a result, the "end-of-century" circuit can remain where it is currently located, in spaces originally reserved for modern art. I would also like to point out that hosting modern art collections outside MRBABs would be a costly undertaking. We need to develop new surfaces and at the same time restore the unoccupied spaces of the MRBABs. In this way, we should, on two occasions, face substantial expenditure. It should be recalled that according to several specialists, the Citroën building is not suitable to become an exhibition space for works of art. This has been explained in detail in the media. As for the Vanderborght building, it was never presented as a durable solution, but rather a temporary one, by the promoters of this place. Currently, in collaboration with Minister Jambon's office in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, we are studying how to secure funding for the integration work to be carried out. I do not have the correspondence from the Minister-President of the Brussels-Capital Region, asking the federal government to make available the collection of modern art in the Citroën building.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u29	You have the merit of consistency as this is the answer you have given to Mr. Miller. With regard to your proposal to reintegrate modern art collections into MRBABs and, in particular, from its extensions, has a feasibility study already been carried out on the cost of the work? Furthermore, since Vanderborght is likely to be a temporary solution, have other avenues been explored? What about this decision? Is there a government agreement to reintegrate the modern art collection into the MRBAB?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u30	The government's agreement is that the collections remain together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u31	As far as the cost is concerned, you did not answer. Not as far as timing is concerned. Finally, everyone's goal is for the collections to be seen as quickly as possible by the public. This collection of modern art must be seen by the Brussels, by the other Belgians and by foreign visitors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u32	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. Each art derives from another art but then from contemporary art also derives modern art and from ancient art derives medieval art. You should put everything in a big room. In New York, there is a modern art museum that is completely separated from ancient art museums or others. Please don't have a totally archaic and conservative view of culture. We're no longer there at all in capitals around the world. We must try to work with the curators and the directors to ensure that art is highlighted for the public and for the tourist attraction of Brussels. I recall that the studies that were done at the time and that you no longer want to go out showed that the Vanderborght stores were less expensive than the renovation of a classified building. It was a temporary measure, since the MIM had to settle there, with a pole at La Monnaie. This would have been a very interesting redeployment of museums. This building was purchased by the City of Brussels for the federal government. You never contacted the City of Brussels, its mayor or its college to tell us that the Vanderborght solution was over. I think that would have been the least of all. You are bound by government notifications and not by a government declaration. Decisions and laws must come from the latter, otherwise I don't know what we're doing here. There would be a government declaration for five years and then neither the executive nor we would do anything in Parliament. This is not the way work is done in an executive or parliament. With regard to the Citroën site where the Museum of Contemporary Art will take place, it must be avoided from the outset that this place is inappropriate. Many places around the world - you have to travel a bit... - show that such museums are usually installed on industrial sites. The ancient and modern arts can be welcomed in other settings. I would simply ask you to be open to debate, consultation and a true culture in Brussels. However, I have the impression that this is not the case at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u33	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, as you know, the legal dispute between the Belgian State and the International Polar Foundation (IPF) has recently seen a new turnaround. Indeed, the Brussels Court of Appeal, in a judgment of 17 December 2015, undermines the government's position regarding the management of the Princess Elizabeth polar station. By reforming the order issued in October 2015 by the Court of First Instance, the Brussels Court of Appeal seems to resettle the International Polar Foundation in its material, intellectual and even presence rights at the station, with a number of tags. Moreover, and this raises a great question about the objectivity of the fight initiated by the Belgian State, the Royal Decree of 10 August 2015 evicting the International Polar Foundation of the Polar Secretariat is recognized as irregular by the court. Moreover, it stresses that the Belgian State has not acted in a transparent manner, and that is the least to be said, announcing in March-April 2015 a procedure for the appointment of the members of the strategic council and preparing, at the same time, the royal decree of 10 August 2015 which removes the International Polar Foundation. More concretely, pending the completion of the ongoing proceedings, the Court confirms that the Foundation owns all the equipment that was not the subject of the 2010 divestiture inventory, grants it the right of access to the station as soon as the Belgian mission is completed and condemns the State to carry out an inventory of the station's equipment and an adversarial inventory. Finally, and this is the subject of my question, without being able to compel them to do so, the court invites the parties to negotiate a new partnership protocol for the organization of the expeditions to be held from 2016-2017. Madam Secretary of State, considering the position of the Court of Appeal, are you going to start the process of negotiating a new partnership protocol with the International Polar Foundation for upcoming expeditions, on the basis of the Court's suggestion-recommendation? How long? Will you respect the International Polar Foundation's right of co-ownership and access to the polar station established by the judgement of the Court of Appeal?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u34	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, the dispute between Alain Hubert and the Science Policy is not dated from yesterday. Legal decisions are multiplying but not similar. During the discussion of the policy note at the end of 2015, you told us that "the Finance Inspectorate's reports reveal a clear confusion of interests and a total lack of transparency". On 21 October 2015, the Brussels court of first instance gave you the right by prohibiting the president of the International Polar Foundation from going to the base. But, on December 17, 2015, the Brussels Court of Appeal handed down a very different judgment. The lack of transparency is now attributed to the Belgian State. This decision grants ownership of all of the station's equipment to the Foundation, with the exception of the assets that were the subject of the disposal inventory in 2010. The decision also calls on the Polar Secretariat to negotiate a new agreement with the Polar Foundation. What you were not opposed to in the discussion of the policy note. You pointed out at the time that you did not exclude a new collaboration with Mr Hubert, but that it should be based on very clear rules. Madam Secretary of State, my concern is to ensure the sustainability and effectiveness of the polar station and all its research programmes. That is why I would like to ask you about his future. What is the status of the distribution of equipment? Has the property been restored? Has an agreement been reached between the Polar Secretariat and the Polar Foundation? Have any contacts been made to follow the court's invitation and renegotiate a new agreement with the Polar Foundation? A new international ASBL must be created in which the authorities will hold majority participation, you have defended in parliament. Does this decision of the Court of Appeal call into question this structure? What is the status of this decision? How do you intend to ensure the optimisation of scientific research in the polar station?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u35	Madam President, Mr Cheron and Mr Dallemagne, I do not know whether you have read the various court decisions, but allow me to clarify the decision of the Court of Appeal of 17 December 2015, since you are reading them personally. Indeed, the judgement has only been partially reformed. The measures that have been taken to ensure the shipment have rightly been taken. It is also an appeal against an interim procedure, giving that decision a provisional title. An order on the merits is still pending. The only thing to which the decree requires the Belgian State is in fact the contradictory realization of an inventory of the station's equipment and equipment, at the end of the 2015-2016 BELARE expedition and before the end of the polar summer. Furthermore, the judgment provides that the International Polar Foundation is authorised to use the polar station provisionally from 23 February 2016 in order to achieve the social objectives of the FPI and provided that such use does not affect the provision of public services on the spot by the Belgian State. The other statements cannot be inferred from the text of the judgment of the Court of Appeal. The Court of Appeal does not rule on the illegality of the royal decree of 10 August 2015 and even declares that it is not in a position to cancel the royal decree erga omnes or to impose negotiations with a view to concluding a new partnership agreement. The Court considers that such a measure is not desirable and that it is not legally justified either. Nor does the judgement of the Court of Appeal render a substantive judgement on the right to property. It provides for a temporary situation of co-ownership. Finally, I would like to point out that you consider only the order of the Court of Appeal of 17 December 2016, without taking into account the more recent decision of 20 January 2016 in which the Brussels Judge of First Instance confirms the provision of 21 October 2015 and therefore reiterates the prohibition for the FPI to travel to the polar station, to disrupt the functioning of the polar station and to make use of the remote control system. The return of the goods removed was also ordered, and this was subject to a penalty in case of non-compliance with the decision. I come back to your questions regarding negotiations on a new IPF partnership protocol for future shipments and the possibility of contracts already entered into on this subject. As a first step, we believe it is important to comply with the Court of Appeal's order of 17 December, which asks us to conduct an adversarial inventory and an inventory. To this end, contacts have been initiated between the representatives of the FPI and the representatives of the Belgian State. It was agreed that the inventory would be carried out from 19 to 23 February, in a few days' time. With regard to the conclusion of a new partnership protocol, even if the judge had found that the royal decree was illegal, which is not the case, the judge personally admits that he cannot order a new partnership and that he can only invite the parties to do so. The Royal Decree only states that the FPI is no longer a privileged partner of the State. I am already in a position to inform you that with a view to the participation of private partners in the BELARE expedition of the next season – as the Polar Secretariat will also continue in the future to use the private sector to provide the required services on site – a public procurement will be established. The Council of Ministers decided at its meeting on 24 September 2015. Like other private actors, the IPF can register and compete for the public market. In matters relating to respect for the right to co-ownership, we have always respected the orders, judgments and judgments of different jurisdictions, and we will continue to do so in the future. Negotiations related to the completion of the inventory and its start date have been established. With regard to the right to property, we await the decision of the judge on the merits, as is appropriate for a rule of law. As long as there is no decision on this right of ownership and in the absence of an inventory with an overview of the goods and equipment present in the polar station, it is of course impossible to allocate the equipment. However, since there is a question of co-ownership, as you rightly mention, we do not believe it is up to the FPI to use the station exclusively. The government agreement and my policy note refer to the creation of an international BLSO as a possible management structure for the Princess Elizabeth Polar Station. This structure should make it possible to organise the best collaboration between private partners and public authorities. The idea of an international ASBL as the legal basis for our activities at the Polar Station had already been raised by the previous government in 2013 and 2014, but without having received any further action. The current framework, formed by the Polar Secretariat, a separate managed state service linked to the Science Policy PPS, was already adopted by me in 2015 in order to comply with the principles of transparent management of public resources. The Council of Ministers of 10 July 2015 approved this reform, which was necessary in view of the structural confusion of interests, due to the fact that a representative of the International Polar Foundation was President of the Strategic Council of the Polar Secretariat and that he was also the main beneficiary of the public resources available to that Secretariat. As a result of this reform, the BELARE scientific campaign was organized in time for the 2015-2016 season in collaboration with Defence. This campaign will soon be carried out successfully. I have met repeatedly with the FPI, other private partners and the authorities concerned. It must be noted that the interest in the creation of an international ASBL or a similar legal form is still relevant, but that some actors are now placing themselves in a more proactive attitude, given the ongoing legal affairs which the FPI has taken the initiative against the Belgian State and the media attention that surrounds this subject. In order to continue to ensure scientific research at the Polar Station, the Polar Secretariat will shortly launch tenders to provide the necessary support, in collaboration with Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u36	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer, but I am not reassured. I did not expect the Secretary of State to smoke the peace cup with the International Polar Foundation, but I had hope for judicial proceedings. We are in a conflict that has taken a judicial turn, with a first decision. I am a member of the Justice Committee, I know how long things can last. We are certainly not in the final judgment. There will be the appeal, then other decisions. I will not replicate the elements and will read the answer carefully when I have the opportunity to do it head-rested. I must admit that I am probably representing a number of people in this country who no longer understand this issue. But they understand one thing: Belgium was part of the creation in Antarctica of a base that is dear to this country. Belgium marked the history of the presence there, in a central place for the Earth ecosystem. Our polar station is known for its zero emission level, which is a world first. Many countries are very envious of what has been done. I'm not judging Mr. Hubert, it's not my role. In the judgment of the Court of Appeal, I noted that the Court invited the parties to negotiate a new protocol. I have always considered that when the Court of Appeal calls for negotiation, it is rather good news. If this could be done in many cases, it would avoid many unnecessary wars. I wonder, then, whether it is not time to take up the question of returning to a little more calm. I know that this case was initiated by the previous government, in particular by the head of scientific policy who made it a personal war – but he is at war with everyone, including you, so no worries! Here, the Court of Appeal invites us to find the way to effective collaboration. I would point out that around Mr Hubert, there are personalities, who are not directly linked as interests but who are in the strategic configuration around the International Polar Foundation, who also invite discussion. In particular, Mr Bodson, Mr Maystadt, who are not lit up. They invite us to have a little more than legal or judicial war formulas for this project than the whole Earth envys us. Madam Secretary of State, in addition to a series of operations that justice requires you to do, I can only invite you to try to see if it is not time to resume negotiations. I do not judge each other, but I think that Mr. Hubert had some courage to do what he did, even though he has a lot of faults. It would be a bit stupid to deprive oneself of this possibility of reconnecting the sons of dialogue. I would like you to think about it, beyond the legal proceedings to be undertaken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u37	Madam Secretary of State, I was present at Tour & Taxis when we showed the Princess Elizabeth station before she left for Antarctica. I remember the emotion and the crowd that was rushing to visit this station, as well as the pride of Belgium to be able to develop again large expeditions like this one, quite original. As Mr Cheron said, this station is zero, experts and the whole country have mobilized for it. Today, this great project led by a great entrepreneur in the first sense of the term - an explorer who, in some respects, has had shortcomings in management - Belgium must try to save it. Belgium must ensure that this project and research can continue to develop. You have admitted it yourself: the ASBL International Polar Foundation is at a standstill; there is a conflict in which we no longer know very well who is wrong and who is right - one court decides in one direction and another goes in the other direction. Like my colleague, Mr Cheron, I think we need to find a new method of dialogue and work on this issue. I think it is important to have in mind that the aim is to continue this project and develop it, to keep this pride in having such a distant and essential project in relation to major issues that are mobilising us all. It is necessary to ensure that, around Belgium, a series of international teams can mobilize. I ask you to reconsider the method you worked with. I do not want to judge it, but I simply observe it in terms of objectives and outcome. I don't think the result is up to it. There is a need for a change of approach; this conflict must be resolved and the higher interests of this project can prevail and the people who have been at the instigation of this project can continue to be associated with it, in accordance with the procedures and the law. They should not simply be considered as a foreign third party in a tendering system. Mr. Hubert and the International Polar Foundation cannot be regarded as an ordinary third party, as they have initiated this project. This is not the right method for this project. I really ask you to reconsider how to approach the future of this polar station.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u38	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, as to remaining in our country's major projects in relation to its future, I would like to ask you about the creation of the Belgian Space Agency. The government agreement of 10 October 2014 already specified the creation of an inter-federal office for space. Your policy note, discussed in December 2015, stated that the bill for the creation of this Interfederal Space Agency would be submitted to the government by the end of 2015. This agency was to be operational by 1 January 2016 at the latest. But it would seem that your bill is far from being finalized and above all that it is subject to a great deal of criticism. The sector is very concerned about the future of space, especially when it becomes aware of the opinion, relayed by the press, of the Finance Inspectorate which proposes to delay the establishment of the Agency until 1 January 2017. The Belgian space sector is a real economic challenge with annual turnover of around €350 million and some 4,000 direct jobs, not to mention indirect jobs. It is therefore essential to preserve it. The discussions were quite lively during the discussion of the policy note and highlighted that we could not yet clearly know what the space agency would be, particularly as regards its functioning, the autonomy of its structure or the representation of the Regions. It is necessary to reassure the sector and to be able to guarantee that this reform will not lead to a break-up of space policy which could involve the loss of major payers such as Airbus. Madam Secretary of State, what is the status of the bill establishing the Interfederal Space Agency? Has the deadline for the establishment of this Agency been extended to 1 January 2017? Have the very many criticisms of the Finance Inspectorate been followed? What will be its structure? What will be its distribution among the Regions? How does consultation with the sector take place across the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u39	Madam Secretary of State, the Government Agreement provides for the creation of a more flexible modern structure to be more responsive to our space policy. In doing so, you are in particular responsible for accompanying the creation of a Belgian space agency to which the federated entities would be associated. A preliminary draft law is therefore being prepared with a view to the establishment of the Belgian Interfederal Space Agency. A few days ago, the Vif-L-Express referred to a negative opinion of the Finance Inspectorate on the initial agenda and on several provisions. In particular, the Finance Inspectorate indicated in this opinion that it was waiting for a series of improvements in efficiency in the context of the proposed reform. It seems to me, however, important to be able to take stock with you on this issue. Madam Secretary of State, what is the status of your draft bill? Do you already have a schedule? To what extent will the federated entities be involved in the reflection on the creation of the Belgian Space Agency? As far as its legal structure is concerned, can you confirm to me that it will have its own legal personality, as provided for in the government agreement? What about administrative and budgetary control? What fate will it be reserved for the space budget? How will it be funded? What lessons do you learn from the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate mentioned by Le Vif-L'Express? Have you associated the sector with your work? If not, do you plan to do so? Thank you for taking stock of this vital issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u40	Mr de Lamotte, Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, the bill establishing the Interfederal Space Agency is ready, as is its implementing orders. Currently discussed within the government, it is subject to final changes. The intercabinets working groups are in full discussion in this regard, taking into account the views of the Finance Inspectorate and many other parameters, including administrative and budgetary control, hierarchical structures, advisory bodies, relations with federated entities, etc. I can confirm that all actors have been involved in the creation process, whether they are trade unions, concerned federal ministers, several international organisations or federated entities, in accordance with legal procedures. The birth of the Interfederal Space Agency is scheduled for January 1, 2017, but we will try to put it in place earlier. We have already taken the technical and budgetary steps in this direction. All the necessary steps have been taken, so that this will not interfere with the rigorous preparations for the ESA Ministerial Conference to be held next December. We therefore guarantee Belgian players the financing and continuity of services. More importantly, we are working to make the ESA Ministerial Conference the first operational test of the Space Agency, while being aware of the ambitious nature of this project. The structure of the Space Agency will allow for a much more efficient and efficient use of federal space resources. Its creation was foreseen in the government agreement, as I have already explained in detail in my 2016 political guidance note in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u41	Madam Secretary of State, I take note of your answer. The creation of the Agency is well postponed to January 1, 2017. I look forward to the outcome of the consultation with the federated entities. You did not answer the question about the structure of the Agency. I wish I'd known more about that. Donors like Airbus are very attentive to what will be put in place in view of this situation. It is important not to reduce the number of partners, which would make them unconscionable for negotiations with these major donors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u42	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for taking stock of this important issue. As you said, the deadline is January 2017. It is our responsibility to be able to return to you later this year to see how the situation is changing. The inter-cabinet working groups are conducting discussions. The various actors were involved. I noted in your response that the federated entities will soon be consulted. There is still the work of setting up and financing. I think you'll consult with all the partners. I'll let you work on this issue in the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u43	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, according to my generally reliable information, the Royal Museums of Art and History would be forced to dissolve their educational service. If this is the case, it is a significant loss in terms of cultural action. Indeed, what will become of programmes for schools and specific audiences, continuing education programmes and cultural mediation? Madam Secretary of State, if this is confirmed, I am afraid that this is a further step towards dismantling certain federal cultural services. Your government clearly gives priority to security policies. However, culture is known to be one of the alternative policies of great interest to society. We are talking about spirit, social ties and education. Culture has a fundamental role to play. Cultural sectors fulfil a front-line mission vis-à-vis populations and create links between communities, in particular between linguistic communities with respect to federal scientific institutions (FSIs). They make it possible to work for the emancipation of citizens through artistic and cultural practices. In addition, museums have a fundamental mission of service to the public and schools. They should not be dispossessed of this crucial mission for the social and cultural construction of children. Madam Secretary of State, do you confirm – I hope not – that the existence of the educational service of the Royal Museums of Art and History is threatened? If so, what is the reason for this dissolution? Are similar situations to be feared in other cultural institutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u44	Madam President, Mr Cheron, in response to your question on the possible threat of the disappearance of the educational service of the Royal Museums of Art and History, I can inform you that you have nothing to fear. It is absolutely necessary to reform the educational services, including that of the Museum of Musical Instruments, which has recorded an annual loss of around 800,000 euros, while the cost of salaries for the twenty-nine members of the educational staff amounts to 1.2 million euros. On the other hand, the dynamics of these services need to be completely revised, starting with their denomination which does not really attract young people. Freelance would be used more and the current university-level collaborators in archaeology and art history will, in part, support the curators in the inventorying of collections, which is a priority. The other part of these teaching staff will be responsible for developing new programs to attract more visitors to the institution. As a first step, trainee teachers could be asked to create, as part of their training, educational tools for their future students. A second suggestion would be to encourage grandparents to carry out an educational mission towards their grandchildren by raising interest in the works of art exhibited at the Royal Museums of Art and History. A third proposal would be to accompany more tourists during their visit to the Royal Museums of Art and History. A fourth idea would lead us to reflect on how to best guide specific social groups, such as people with disabilities, during their visit to museums. Educational staff are working with other stakeholders on these innovative ideas in order to implement an up-to-date approach for different audiences. Finally, as for the question of what might happen in what you call "other cultural institutions", it is not within my competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u45	Madam Secretary of State, a priori, here I am reassured! But you know me, I'll check your statements. I would also like to recall that during an inquiry into the consequences of the lockdown in Brussels, I invited you to reflect on the idea of revitalising the museums and institutions affected by the introduction of level 4 security in December. At the time, we reviewed together the figures for this alert and you provided me with a list of the consequences of the Brussels museums. We noted that, unlike the SME sector for which specific aid was decided by the government, it was probably better for cultural venues and institutions of this type to think about launching a campaign. I would like to stress that this seems to me to be in connection with the point we are dealing with today. In the Internet era, it is in fact a question of attracting the public again to these institutions that have been suffering for years from disaffection. For working for some time in this kind of place, I am very much in favour of the idea of revitalisation, which seems to me to be a necessity for Brussels. To do this, we need modern communication tools at our disposal. I am thinking of audioguides and a number of contemporary teaching methods that differ from the traditional guided tours given to visitors by an employee. I am not saying that these methods can no longer exist, but I am looking forward to checking on the ground that there is a real reinvigoration in this area. I therefore invite you once again to reflect on the creation of a more general campaign to attract our people to the jewels that our federal museums make up in terms not only of heritage, but also of places of memory, culture and history. These are important educational tools that must reach all audiences. I am pleased that actions specific to certain audiences are being put in place. You mentioned people with disabilities, but I think there are other audiences who, thanks to adapted teaching methods, can take a taste for culture in the best acceptance of the term.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u46	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, it rains at the Royal Museums of Fine Arts! It's raining at the Natural Sciences Museum! It's raining at the 50th anniversary too! Anyway, it's raining! It's not just tunnels, there are museums. Whether it is roofs that allow rain to enter, mouldy walls, broken windows, flooded basements, the condition of the buildings of these florets of culture is catastrophic. If nothing moves quickly, the consequences in terms of heritage and image may be serious. We've all seen these buckets that accompany a Rubens, a Jordaens. The buildings of the Museums of Fine Arts are home to rare and fragile works. Therefore, the first thing we check for is hygrometry. Hygrometry is not only the temperature but also the degree of humidity in the air. If we're not at 65% hygrometry, either it's too dry or it's too wet and works suffer. These buildings of the Museums of Fine Arts are in a worrying situation. The Balla building is leaked from water as soon as heavy rains fall on its canopy under which there are Rubens and Jordaens. At the 50th anniversary, one of the most important museum poles in the world, the Royal Museums of Art and History and the Royal Museum of the Army are in a pitiful state. Never renovated, they are victims of the time, the disinvestment – which goes back a number of years – that leaves traces in the roofs, in the foundations, in the floors. Yet, there are exceptional collections that it would be unacceptable to have to move under cover of unforeseeableness. Other places are in the same state and are still waiting to be fixed. The Natural History Museum has released the buckets, the Music Instruments Museum is becoming obsolete, the Chinese Pavilion and the Japanese Tower are in a state that is beginning to pose a problem. They were closed two years ago pending renovations. They are abandoned today and there are traces of vandalism and degradation. The situation is serious. How can we imagine that such a cultural heritage can be exposed to conservation hazards of this magnitude? How can we explain that works of such historical importance are not properly exposed and protected? Why aren't these buildings, architectural flagships, among the priorities of the Régie des Bâtiments? I would like to ask you and your colleague, Mr Jambon, in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments. Exceptional, rapid and structural action must be taken because inaction would be unacceptable. Madam Secretary of State, what do you intend to do to protect these works of art in the short term? Have you contacted Mr Jambon, the minister responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments, to find emergency solutions for the institutions I mentioned? Are you working on a structural solution, in order to allow, in the medium to long term, a thorough renovation of cultural and scientific institutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u47	Mr Cheron, it is true that the Royal Museums of Fine Arts at Mont des Arts and the Royal Museums of Art and History located in the Parc du Cinquantenaire have been pointed out in recent days because of the water infiltrations whose direct cause is to be sought in exceptional rainfalls, the weariness of roofs and the systems of evacuation of water. I myself made immediate contact with the Régie des Bâtiments, responsible for the renovation of the architectures of these buildings, as well as with the minister responsible for this matter. To my knowledge, the Régie will begin the most urgent sealing work in the short term. In concrete terms, the Royal Museums of Fine Arts will carry out the work on the roofs of the Delporte, patio and Rubens rooms for a total amount of 1,751,000 euros. The curators constantly follow this problem and are ready to intervene if a work of art was in danger. Fortunately, no damaged work has yet been reported. Zinc drainage pipes for water disposal will be restored this year at the Musée du Cinquantenaire, in the garden of the cloister so named. The image of water flowing from the stone staircase, as seen in a recent report, will soon belong to the past. An intervention is also planned to address water infiltrations over the space where the Wolfers store will be installed. One-off repairs will continue to be carried out. The budget for these interventions is EUR 280 000. With regard to the Chinese Pavilion and the Japanese Tower, an investment of €1,727,000 has been made over the past decade. However, a comprehensive renovation plan has yet to be drawn up by the Régie des Bâtiments, which will carry out studies on the subject this year. This year, the Porte de Hal will have a new roof estimated at 600,000 euros. The Music Instruments Museum has no major problems and requires only a few small maintenance work. As for the Royal Museum of Army and Military History, it does not belong to the group of federal scientific institutions, which fall within my jurisdiction. In the longer term, it is clear that a structural approach is needed for federal scientific institutions with the most pressing needs. The Régie des Bâtiments and its responsible minister are currently analysing this matter. I hope and am convinced that they will find a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u48	Madam Secretary of State, I listened to your answer with great interest and found you particularly willing. You see, I'm positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u49	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u50	To help you, and because I know you don't just have friends in this government when it comes to finding money – especially when there aren't many! – I have drafted a motion to raise sufficient interest in short-term measures. I would also like to thank you for your concern about the fate of the Chinese Pavilion and the Japanese Tower, which have been in an advanced state of disrepair for the past two years. I can only support you, too, on the other issues that need to be addressed. Similarly, I agree with your intention to develop with the Régie des Bâtiments a true masterplan, which obviously requires significant investments. I am referring here to the global aspect, since it is a question of national heritage. Madam Chair, I therefore put this motion in your hands in order to assist the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u51	Do you have a few million extras?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u52	Not yet! It used to be philanthropy. It's getting lost.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u53	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Marcel Cheron and Stefaan Van Hecke and read as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Marcel Cheron and the response of the Secretary of State for Poverty Reduction, Equal Opportunities, Persons with Disabilities and Science Policy, Assistant to the Minister of Finance, asks the government - to take all necessary urgent measures in connection with the damage in buildings housing federal scientific and cultural institutions; - in conjunction with the Régie des Bâtiments, to develop as soon as possible a comprehensive masterplan of the structural renovations to be carried out in the buildings of the Cinquantenaire, the Royal Museums of Fine Arts, the Museum of Natural History and other buildings housing federal scientific and cultural institutions, including an evaluation of objective priorities; - on the basis of these priorities, to release an extraordinary budget intended to renovate in depth the most old buildings, yet we are proud of Belgium's architectural and cultural heritage; - to propose modern ways of energizing the management of federal museums, which make it possible to diversify their sources of funding, and which guarantee the federal status of collections. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Marcel Cheron and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Marcel Cheron and the reply of the Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, Equal Opportunities, Persons with Disabilities and Science Policy, attached to the Minister of Finance, calls on the Government - take all necessary urgent measures in view of the damage to the buildings in which the federal scientific and cultural institutions are located, - to draw up as soon as possible, in consultation with the Government of the Buildings, a comprehensive master plan for the structural renovations to be carried out in the buildings of the Jubelpark, in the buildings of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts and of the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences and in the other buildings in which the federal scientific and cultural institutions are located, and to define the objective priorities for this purpose; - in the light of these priorities, draw a credit from the extraordinary budget for the in-depth renovation of the most crumbling buildings, which are nevertheless gems of the Belgian architectural and cultural heritage; - to provide modern thinking for more dynamic management of federal museums, which can diversify sources of funding and safeguard the federal status of collections. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Goedele Uyttersprot. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Goedele Uyttersprot. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u54	Madam Secretary of State, the Wiertz and Constantin Meunier museums are undeniably major cultural and tourist hubs in the Brussels region. The wealth of their heritage contributes directly to the education of culture, the leisure of our fellow citizens and, of course, the international influence of our country. In this respect, these museums are places of multiple interest for which the public authorities are intended to facilitate accessibility by the greatest number of people. It is my responsibility that these two institutions, which depend on the federal government, are subject to fairly rigid timetables. Indeed, the Wiertz museum is closed during the weekend, while the Constantin Meunier museum admits only group visits, only upon prior reservation. You will agree that these accessibility rules are not very favourable to a large part of our citizens who, for the most part, are subject to professional obligations and can therefore only travel, often with family, to these places of leisure during the weekend. I would also like to ask you the following questions. What exactly are the attendance figures for these museums from Monday to Friday? What are the objective reasons that have so far legitimized the restriction of access to the general public during the weekend? Do these correspond to the reality of citizens' needs? What is your position on changing the schedules of the above-mentioned museums? Have you initiated a reflection on this issue and, if so, could you communicate the conclusions and measures already adopted to facilitate the accessibility of these sites to as many people as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u55	Mr Calomne, with regard to your question about the attendance figures for 2015, I can tell you the following: for the Constantin Meunier Museum, 1,578 visitors; for the Wiertz Museum, 4,243 visitors. Museums are open from Tuesday to Friday from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. and from 12:45 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. The reason why museums cannot stay open on weekends is practical in nature. There are also safety and conservation reasons. In addition, both museums are not suitable for large numbers of visitors. It is up to the management of the institution to determine its policy in terms of opening hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic338x.u56	I can hear your answers, minister. Although I understand that the management - and this is the same direction as the Royal Museums of Fine Arts - has an important museum pole emotionally, these two museums may be the poor parent of all these institutions, which I regret, especially since they can be complementary to visits that can be made in relation to the large museums, as they are called. I was wondering if you, for your part, could engage in a discussion or awareness-raising with these directorates because, as I said, opening hours do not favour workers or students who would like to have access to this culture. Opening hours are so restrictive that they make these museums almost inaccessible to workers or people in working life. This is a bit of a shame since it is these people who are also helping to finance these museums through their taxes. It would be worth considering this. I will also allow myself to talk to the directorates about this, but I think it will have more weight in your words, Madam Secretary of State.
