ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u1	Minister, a few months ago I asked you about a state of affairs concerning the language problem in the emergency services. I raised this problem for emergency medical interventions, including the problems that arose in Rekkem. However, this municipality at the language border is not the only one facing this problem. However, the federal government agreement explicitly states that the federal government will ensure that in the areas around the language border and in Brussels there will always be an emergency service staff in the other country language, someone who everyone understands. In the previous question on this matter, you indicated that there was a consultation with your colleagues in the health sector and with the provincial authorities concerned. Four working groups were then set up. In the meantime, you have also announced that you would like to introduce a menu for the emergency number 112 and thus address some of the language problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u2	May I ask that the people who no longer work here continue their conversations elsewhere. Proceed, Mr Demon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u3	Firstly, what are the results of the specific working groups set up? Secondly, are you going to follow the path of launching a menu for emergency number 112 and inserting a language choice option as a possible solution to the language problem? Thirdly, what is your response to the criticism that has come from different angles of the investigation to introduce a menu of choice to the number 112? Finally, what other options do you propose to solve the language problem? Within what period do you see a definitive solution to this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u4	Mr Demon, at the beginning of this year, my services at the university will ask for a brief study on the level of user-friendliness of IVR technology. More specifically, a university will be asked to carry out a test with a representative sample of the Belgian population in order to identify a number of parameters, such as the average time between the start of the call and the choice of tests, the percentage of citizens who are wrong, the overall time between each stage, the understanding of the choice of language and so on. In this way it can be immediately identified whether this project has a real success rate and if so, how the message should be put on the tape: first the choice of the required help or first the choice of the language and so on. In addition to this experiment with IVR technology, new language courses for operators and calltakers will be organised in 2016, specifically focusing on the vocabulary they need to use when asking for urgent medical assistance, fire department and police interventions. Against concerns about introducing a menu of choice, citizens in distress in panic situations should be put in the appropriate emergency call centre as soon as possible. Several functional managers of the 112/100 Auxiliary Centre are enthusiastic about the project and have offered on their own initiative to allow the pilot project to take place in their province. The choice menu will not be comparable to commercial menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu menu The choice menu will be limited to the question of whether the fire department or medical assistance is needed, which I dare even question, or police assistance. It will also be possible to opt for another country language. Whether we ask the two questions or only questions about the language choice will be part of the test. We will have to learn that from the test. No further questions will therefore be asked. It's about one or a maximum of two questions. Thus, as with other call centers, one will not still be entering menu options after half an hour. That will certainly not be the case here. Through IVR technology, people in need have to buy time on a global scale. I assume that by immediately putting the call into the right power station and by reducing the number of improper calls, there will be a lot less calls, which in any case will save time. I'll repeat it again. That is a hypothesis which we will now study. There is still an alternative solution that has been introduced in a number of Member States of Europe. This is to enable a first line of neutral calltakers that briefly interrogate the caller and then transfer them to the appropriate discipline. This solution has the disadvantage that the caller still has to be forwarded after the first intake, so that callers either panic or get frustrated because they cannot immediately lose their full story. At first sight IVR technology seems to me to be a better solution. I repeat, however, that a pilot project must clarify this. For the sake of clarity, I would point out that if IVR technology did not deliver the expected result, it would not be generalised. However, I did not have to mention that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u5	Mr President, Minister, I will return to the beginning. Do I draw the right conclusion when I say that this resulted only in the working groups between Health and Home Affairs? In reply to my previous question, you said that four working groups had been set up in this area. Especially for West Flanders, the language border is the real problem. For this purpose, working groups were set up. I'm asking about the results, but I didn't get an answer. Can I assume that these working groups, together with the language courses, are the only consequence?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u6	No, that's not right. The working groups with Health focused on urgent medical aid and the issue of ambulances.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u7	However, there was also the question of language issues. Things took too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u8	That does not have much to do with these working groups. This is a matter that is considered purely by the Home Office in the context of the 112 number and the language problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u9	So it's about the language and extra courses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u10	Mr President, Minister, since the announcement of the retirement age and transitional measures, police personnel have been facing a new type of problem that concerns public servants who have reached retirement age. It appears that many civil servants had planned, at the time of their pension, to leave Belgian territory. With this in mind, some had already separated themselves from their property, while others had taken steps abroad to build a home. Life projects with a real relational, social, psychological and legal impact killed in the egg by this recent measure, which can have serious financial and psychological consequences for the people concerned. So much so that today, some officials caution about the risk of severe depression that could affect these officers. The legislation requires the employer to take the necessary measures to prevent psychosocial risks at work in order to prevent the damage resulting from these risks, especially in the case of public safety officials who have easy access to firearms. Minister, have the psychosocial consequences of this measure been measured for police personnel? Should not the officials concerned be given a specific framework to prevent financial, psychological and social damage? What physical and organisational measures will be taken to reduce risks and to analyse whether there is a danger to workers or citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u11	Mrs Ben Hamou, a pension can be requested up to one year in advance. In the context of this issue, it is important to know that the government has never, to date, taken an extension measure by which pensions claimed and granted would have been withdrawn. In a period of longer careers, it would not be prudent for future pensioners to make irrevocable arrangements without already having the guarantee of being able to take up their pension on the date requested. In addition, the recent measures taken with respect to pre-pension non-activity will provide additional opportunities for the staff members you refer to. Local police areas and the federal police have psychosocial structures and stress teams that can be used and that can intervene in the event of proven psychosocial risks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u12	Thank you, Minister. It should be noted, however, that police officers will have to work longer. Of course, non-activity measures are in place but, de facto, police officers will have to work longer. Some people planned to leave the pension and did not meet the conditions for applying. Have you conducted a risk analysis of this measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u13	We have not done a risk analysis because we cannot estimate the number of people who will participate. As I said, local police areas and the federal police have stress teams, which can help staff if problems arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u14	All right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u15	Minister, I have recently been questioned by members of air support about the lack of security in certain places, and at the same time, about the necessary lack of discretion over certain sensitive areas, particularly in terms of media relations. At Zaventem Airport, police officers in charge of security have weapons placed in safes in a particular location. Recently, however, as part of a television report, the cameras were allowed to follow the police, including in these so-called secure places. This behaviour seems to jeopardize the necessary discretion around these places that are normally inaccessible to people outside the security services, and that sometimes give access to equipment that may prove to be dangerous. In general, what are the legal measures governing access to these so-called secure areas? What about the instructions given to law enforcement officials in terms of communication and access to the media? Is there a census of these protected areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u16	Mrs Ben Hamou, the measures taken concerning the supervision of access to so-called secure areas are the responsibility of the Brussels Airport Company, which receives its directives from the Minister for Mobility via its SPF. Zaventem Airport has several areas. Every person working in the territory of the airport must apply through his employer for a badge which will allow him to access the areas necessary for the performance of his duties. Access to secure areas is restricted to badge holders. Federal airport police with firearms, and only them, obviously have access to these vaults, which open only with a specific badge. Since foreigners must be able to access certain areas of the airport in certain cases, 18-page regulations on the airport identification badge can be found on the brusselsairport.be website on the Badges Regulation page. Finally, it should be noted that all secure areas are permanently under camera surveillance. For your second question, each federal police staff member has been instructed never to comment to the media and to inform journalists that they can always contact the federal police spokesman. In addition, the latter cannot access the secure areas. As far as your third question is concerned, as Minister of the Interior, I can only answer on behalf of the federal police services working at the airport. There are a total of three protected areas: border control, the basic police and the Federal Judicial Police, whose access is guaranteed by a special badge, which is complementary to the airport badge.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u18	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Flahaux's 8196 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Delannois' 8236 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u19	I would remind you of the plowings for a topical debate. Everyone gets two minutes, the government has five minutes to answer. Then the questioners have two minutes for a reply. Other political groups that wish to take the floor at the moment only the MR Group is present at the moment may take the floor once, before or after the Government's reply. In accordance with Rule 125 and Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u20	Mr President, I find it extremely strange that there are so few people here. Other Members of this House should be here, because it is not an insignificant subject, but perhaps other committees are in the process. Minister, the refugee problem in Zeebrugge is well known to you, and I certainly do not have to explain to you how serious the situation is. It would be good to get the latest figures. How many transit migrants have been found in the port area of Zeebrugge and throughout the coastal region in recent months? The problem is not only palpable in Zeebrugge, but the other coastal communities are also confronted with it. There was already an emergency cry coming out of your direction because of the coastal mayors, supported by the governor and also by the chairman of the port of Zeebrugge. How will you respond to this request? How will you respond to this distress call? This problem not only creates a feeling of insecurity in a tourist region, but also gives particular concern to the port companies in Zeebrugge. They are confronted almost daily with damage to their fence, well aware that this security is necessary in order to be able to trade certified loads. The economic damage is enormous and runs in the millions, and this is left unpunished. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have a legislative proposal ready to criminalise these damages, in the vain hope that when people smugglers are brought to the criminal court, they will also be called upon for the damage they have suffered. Mr President-in-Office, these economic problems are, of course, also the subject of a great deal of human suffering, and we are very aware of that. The smugglers lie to their victims before they can get a better life in Britain, trying to survive in inhumane situations or try to make the crossing. The tent camps we see near Calais are the result of this. We must therefore make every effort to ensure that this does not happen near the port of Zeebrugge. These inhuman conditions must therefore be put right immediately and must be used with man and power. That's why I have the following questions. What resources will be deployed? What efforts will be made? I know that a lot is already being done, but the situation is getting worse. How will this be dealt with?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u21	Mr. Secretary, the coastal mayors and the governor called the alarm. Last week was the last time. Observations in Adinkerke and on the border with France show that dozens of migrants enter our country every day and spread over the coast. The number of illegals and transit illegals on the coast has increased dramatically in recent weeks. The latest figures we received from you: Zeebrugge 700, on the West Coast 350. This creates an enormous workload in the local police zones and in Zeebrugge also in the shipping police. The police are doing their utmost, but it is no longer feasible. If it continues in this way, an eminent member of our corps was able to say, we go to situations like in Calais. It is a good thing that a humane shelter is being offered in Calais, but we must avoid such tent camps on our coasts alongside the large reception centres that are already in place. Let me list them for you: Chef's, 425 refugees, Nieuwpoort 300, Sijsele 500. If the police then have to pull out, then we'll also notice the last time in Sijsele that a lot of manpower is needed. That manpower isn't there at the time. I am also told that it is strange that in West Flanders, where there are many centres, there is no official of the Foreign Affairs Office who helps with the arrests. However, one in three illegals is arrested on the coast, yet there is no such official just in West Flanders. You said in the press that you want to work with a mobile foreign police to solve these problems. It's colder now, but we know the tourist season is coming. That'll put extra pressure on our police. I have a few specific questions. You indicated that you were working on a mobile alien police force as a possible solution to this problem. How do you see that? How will these people be employable? What criteria will be taken into account to use these mobile police in a particular place? On what time do you intend to make that mobile alien police operational? There is likely to be a budgetary impact. How much can or should that cost? Do you see any other possibilities to solve this short-term? Finally, with regard to that official who is not in West Flanders: knowing that one in three is being held on the coast, will you also address this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u22	Mr Vice Prime Minister, the problem of illegal immigrants on the coast has already been outlined by my fellow Members, and I shall confine myself to my questions. Firstly, do you recognise the problem? Can you outline the evolution of the number of illegals arrested in the coastal area in recent months? Secondly, what is the timetable for the 40 announced additional federal policemen? Will every coastal police zone be able to count on three federal police forces again this summer? Can you explain the mobile handling centre that is being discussed? Can you give me a timetable for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u23	Mr President, Mr Minister, my colleagues have described the problem well, but arriving at a situation identical to that of Calais would be dramatic in relation to living conditions. I do not know if you have had the opportunity to go to Calais or Dunkirk, but in any case the reports we have seen on French TV on these camps are particularly appealing. The number of illegal residents arriving in the coastal region has increased significantly in recent weeks. According to the figures in my possession, there are about 700 arrests in Zeebruges and 400 in Furnes. Minister, can you give me the figures? What is the route taken by these people and what steps have you taken to address this problem? How do you respond to the urgent request for reinforcements addressed to you by the mayors concerned? Has a meeting been held or will it be organized? Did you organise a consultation with the Governor of the Province of West Flanders and the Secretary of State Franken? What is your strategy for dealing with these arrivals?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u24	Mr De Vriendt cannot seem to be here. I am therefore the last questioner in this topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u25	Minister, there have probably been migrant tent camps in Calais for more than ten years, and this has been the case in the Dunkirk region for a few months. There are camps near the Belgian border. In 2014, according to my information, 800 transit migrants stayed near Calais. Of course, it wasn't always the same, but it was always about that number. By the end of 2015, there were already 4 500 in Calais, 3 000 in Dunkirk, especially on the site Grande-Synthe, and there were also smaller camps, for example in Téteghem. Over a year, the number has risen from 800 to 8 000, i.e. times ten. I'd like to make a difference with what my colleague Demon said. In this story, I want to make a clear distinction between illegal transit migrants and asylum seekers, who are being received in shelters, old army barracks and so on. This is usually about illegal transit migrants. They usually do not intend to initiate an asylum procedure, either in France or in our country, but try to go to their promised country, the United Kingdom. I hear now that more and more of these people are fleeing the tent camps. I have seen the images of the mud in those camps after the recent heavy rains, so I can understand very well that those tent camps are not liveable and that there is a humanitarian problem there. I now hear that more and more of those people with a French public transport ticket travel very quickly from Grande-Synthe via a direct line to the end of the bus, the station of Adinkerke-De Panne. They also quickly transfer France's misery to our country. Minister, I think we should play the ball briefly. Since French public transport, in particular DK.BUS, has its final stop in our country, you can change quickly on the train or on the tram, and then continue towards the coast or inland. If the traffickers are to be sure that these people are coming here through filières and the transit migrants are to organise a Train-Tram-Bus Day together, they will enter our country without any control. We can only conclude that this has a negative impact on our province, West Flanders, and on the other provinces of our country, which can be reached very quickly by public transport. Mr Minister, my questions are as follows. What impact do the tent camps in France have on safety? What risks are our people in the border area? In the past, the Chief of Police of the West Coast and the Governor of West Flanders have already expressed alarming reports. They repeated that last week. How do we deal with that? What measures will be taken to reduce those risks? What measures will be taken in the future to ensure that we find a manageable safety solution for the growth of transit migrants, which was very spectacular?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u26	Mr Minister, in addition to the questions that have been asked about the problematic situation of these migrants from the camps in northern France to, in particular, Zeebruges and Furnes, what is the attitude of the French authorities? Do they let them? Is this movement of migrants to Belgium "accompanied"? Is there also contact with the British authorities? Is there any collaboration on this issue at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u27	I'll start the incidents with illegals. The police distinguish between the number of findings of persons in irregular residence at Zeebrugge and the number of findings of security incidents in the port of Zeebrugge. The term "Ship Protection Incidents" includes: ascension, damage to fences, to trucks, to containers or to their contents, etc. As far as the irregular stay is concerned, I have the following figures. Numbers are 37 in September, 103 in October, 119 in November, 453 in December and 310 from 1 to 19 January. There has been a steady increase in the number of illegal immigrants. With regard to incidents in Zeebruges harbour, there were 19 incidents in September, 25 incidents in October, 56 incidents in November and 100 incidents in December. There's almost a doubling every month. In total, 570 transit migrants were intercepted in Belgium in November 2015. In December 2015, 841 transit migrants were intercepted. Most of these transit migrants were intercepted in the West Flanders region, specifically by the Zeebrugge shipping police. I have a table that can be emailed with figures per police area, per SPC and also by road police, about the interceptions carried out in November and December. So one arrives at 570 and 841. Reading that table doesn't make much sense. The shipping police are aware of the fact that transit migrants have occasionally used specific clothing for port workers in order to facilitate access to port facilities in Zeebrugge. So they dress up, but we are not aware that they would dress up as a waiter or crew member, as a port worker, in order to gain access to a ferry boat. We do not consider this plausible, given that thorough access checks are carried out on board a ferry boat. To date, the shipping police have never been called upon to make any observations on this matter. We are also unknown about the use of speedboats from the Belgian coast. However, there are two cases from last year where smugglers used a yacht from the port of Nieuwpoort. Questions have already been answered in committee. However, intensive control actions in close cooperation with the coastguard partners have not produced any new facts. We have seen this once, we have worked intensively on it and we have not seen any new facts. However, we continue to monitor it, it remains in the modus operandi. Now I come to the question of whether the refugees can be released at night. As soon as the Department of Foreign Affairs takes a decision on the measures to be taken, e.g. an order to leave the territory, this measure shall be notified immediately to the foreigner and must be implemented immediately, including at night. This procedure shall apply to the whole territory and not only to Zeebrugge. If they are arrested later because they have not left the territory, they will be referred to a closed institution and removed. The majority of migrants come through France, probably from the French camps of Calais and Dunkirk. Others come via the Balkan route, via Germany, by rail or by climbing in trucks. In response to Mrs Schepmans' question, I have regular contacts with Mr Cazeneuve. Collaboration between our various police services works well and is not a problem. These consultations with Mr. Cazeneuve continue on a regular basis. In addition, on 1 February, the Belgian government will receive part of the French government to discuss terrorism, the problems of the camps in Calais and Dunkirk, and the influences on our territory. The camps are the responsibility of France. It is not for Belgium to assess the situation or intervene in any way. In this respect, France's autonomy applies. Nor would we like the French to be concerned with our powers. It is therefore up to France to decide its own policy in this area. It is not officially known why the persons concerned do not apply for asylum. However, we can see that the refugees are waiting to make the crossing to Britain, that for them is the promised country. Why they do not apply for asylum in France is primarily the responsibility of the persons concerned themselves. We can't force them. Of course, the EU has a role to play here, primarily in controlling our external borders and receiving asylum seekers where they arrive. Decisions have been taken at European level, but taking a decision is one thing, the roll-out and implementation of these decisions is another matter. That will be closely monitored. Then I come to the questions of measures. I can divide it into three parts. Firstly, there were questions about the consultation. Secondly, there are questions about the measures that have already been taken. Thirdly, there are questions about the measures we will take in the near future. As far as consultation is concerned, the evolution of the phenomenon is constantly monitored by all the services concerned. The phenomenon is one of the items on the agenda of the monthly meetings of the Local Maritime Security Committee, in which police, customs, defence and port company Zeebrugge are represented. Several networks and working groups work on the problem of transit migration, but following several signs that the problem is getting worse, including through the letter from the Governor of West Flanders, my cabinet has had an urgent consultation with the federal services concerned in order to arrive at a structural solution. Meanwhile, we have received a number of solutions from local services. They'll be discussed thoroughly at that meeting. We are striving for a solution in the very short term, given the urgency of the problem. As far as the existing measures are concerned, the port area, which is the port area, I mean the terminal, the quays and the infrastructure, which is part of the geographical area of competence of the shipping police. The area around the port of Zeebrugge belongs to the area of competence of the local police Bruges. There is therefore a division between the competence of the shipping police and that of the local police of Bruges. The security of the port terminals concerned is carried out by private security companies, in close consultation with the shipping police. Security has been considerably strengthened in the context of recent events. There is therefore an increased use of the security company debt securities. In addition, additional efforts are being made at different port terminals and quays to optimise their security, including the installation of additional and more efficient camera systems, the installation of additional fences and the closure of possible places of residence for transit migrants. As a result of the border problems, two additional personnel are responsible for handling shipping daily. The shipping police also get additional support from the CIK every night. On 22 September last, the Medusa operation was launched. These are police operations spread across the country, specifically aimed at migration and migratory flows, with the aim of leading people without papers to the services and picking up smugglers. Federal and local services are cooperating in the operation and we intercepted until the end of December. In addition, the federal police, in close cooperation with the local police areas concerned and the private sector, organises large-scale actions directed towards the phenomenon of illegal migration. There have also been two additional night shifts for the shipping police in the port of Zeebrugge since the beginning of January, in order to increase the number of night checks. So we have already added a lot of capacity in recent weeks. What measures are still on the way? There is indeed a request for aid in the coastal region. The option related to a mobile handling team is considered. It may be a team that can be called up in the context of migration problems and provide assistance, where necessary, so that the regular operation of the teams on the ground would no longer be endangered. I also plan to further strengthen the general reserve of the federal police so that it can possibly provide more support to the local police. We are looking at how we can set up mobile handling teams with federal police to assist local police in the administrative handling of groups of transit migrants. The outcome of last week's emergency meeting should be examined in more detail to see whether this is feasible. The proposals are included. In addition, we are also looking at how the roll-out of the ANPR network can better identify the criminal activities of trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. Since all this is being examined, I cannot yet give any budgetary costs for this at the moment. The question was also asked whether we should deploy military forces. Maybe they can contribute to distress and detection, but in the event of a finding, the shipping police will have to re-attach the handling and then re-attach the order to leave the territory. Soldiers have so far been used purely for static surveillance orders. Here we are talking about real police work: tracking, checking, possibly searching and the like. I think it's harder to use military for this. As I have already said, contacts with the French authorities are regular. As far as the debates at European level are concerned, it is my colleague Theo Francken who follows them. I can already tell you that a meeting is scheduled next Monday to discuss, among other things, this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u28	Thank you, Minister, of course, for the comprehensive answer. The distinction between what is needed, what has already happened and what is still in the pipeline is indeed very useful. The use of military personnel is static, but I am in favour of a more dynamic approach, especially in view of the good mobility on the coast. It is not obvious, for example, for a tram driver or for local police forces to take twenty transit migrants off the coast tram. Such facts do not miss their impact, especially among fellow passengers who are often senior citizens, and may lead to conflicts. It is indeed a difficult debate, because it is also about human suffering. We're facing a torn-up choice. There are transit migrants hanging around the street in the cold. The weather conditions on the coast have not been very good in recent days; it has even stormed. At the same time, people smugglers must be dealt with. They must be caught and punished. That is what needs to be done in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u29	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u30	That's right. That is why the results are visible there and we must work on them. The use of your services is also necessary, because it is a safe tourist region. We hope there will be no feeling of insecurity. The use of the police and the courts is also more than necessary to prevent the economic damage caused by the Zeebrugge companies that face significant costs for restoring their security. They can't currently claim that cost on anyone. Nor should we forget that these companies in our region create jobs, and we must therefore ensure that they remain. Mr President, I would like to thank you and, above all, the services who are currently making every effort to prevent situations such as those in Calais. You must act more decisively than your French colleague. Perhaps you could take that point with you in the consultation. It is, of course, the autonomy of France to respond to such situations as it wishes. In any case, we cannot ignore the fact that months ago there had been more decisive action to avoid such situations. This is not only in our own interests, but also in the interests of the victims of trafficking in human beings. In any case, I thank you and your services for their efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u31	Mr Vermeulen, if I refer to the reception centres, I would just like to say that there are a lot of them on the coast. There's gonna be another one in Zeebrugge. The work there must all be done with the same manpower. Minister, I am pleased with all the efforts you have made. I believe in it, too. However, Mrs Dumery has just said that the tourist season is coming. There will now be a number of refugees in Zeebrugge. We really need to come up with a plan right now. I think the mobile handling teams will probably have to become partly permanent. If not, I'm afraid it might end badly. Zeebrugge, with a lot of industry and companies, is already having a hard time attracting tourists. We will therefore have to ensure that the tourists are not afraid to come to Zeebrugge. Thank you for all your efforts. The figures you have given show that work is being done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u32	Mr President, I am not intervening at all with regard to what the minister has described. But objectively, I do not see how, with the efforts made, illegal migrants in difficult situations will harm tourism! I myself live in a very touristic region, in the Ardennes, with the caves of Remuchamps, the wild world of Aywaille, etc. We have a very large refugee centre in our commune; it never harmed tourism! The Minister is rightly making efforts to increase surveillance with respect to smugglers, in particular, as part of the Medusa project. That's very good. But I do not see the relationship between migrants and tourism. We must not let the jungle of Calais develop in particular, not so much for the tourist aspect but especially because of the human conditions in which these people live. I appreciate the minister's efforts to ensure that everything is in order there, but that, in my opinion, has no relation to tourism. Is it because we're a migrant, we're running away from tourists? I don't understand!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I would ask you to provide the table with the results per police area, so that all the questioners have that information. I would like to stress that our approach must be firmer, so that we do not end up in the same situation as France. That is nothing new, because I remember that there used to be camps around Menen and in the border region near highways in summertime. France first tolerated the situation and then doubted the approach to asylum, aid, illegal immigrants, whether or not they remain, and then humanitarian dramas of unprecedented proportions always happen. Give them a finger and they'll take an arm. Let us certainly not be unintentionally complicit in the work of smugglers and play very briefly at the ball. Yesterday, Secretary of State Francken said in the Committee on the Interior that the government has no intention of admitting tent camps and that, as soon as tent camps were created, they would be demolished immediately. I understand that the consultation, which could take place very quickly, is important and that it is a first step. However, it must not be the penultimate step. After all, many more steps will be needed. My personal opinion is that there will still be a great deal of support from the police and other services to ensure that everything is done in an orderly manner. I certainly don't want to focus on Zeebrugge alone. Mr Demon will not blame me for that. He speaks for his city and I speak for the area from where they mainly enter, especially the border region around Dunkirk and Veurne. The situation there will not be dealt with by the shipping police either. I believe that additional consultations will be needed with Secretary of State Francken to arrest them as soon as illegal transit migrants are found and not simply to give them a warrant to leave the country. By the way, the police have made that remark before. After all, it is not the intention of transit migrants to stay in our country. They want to go to the United Kingdom as soon as possible. Leaving the country is not the problem for them, entering the country of destination is. We must get them to a closed centre as soon as possible, either to start an asylum procedure or to arrange a return to the country of origin. Finally, we expressed the idea with the Committee on the Interior and this was also approved by the Conference of Presidents to visit the ANPR camera shield of West Flanders. Such a shield is already operational in your province, Minister. If we were to visit the coordination centre of the cameras in Bruges, we could also call on Zeebrugge to look at the way in which safety equipment is efficiently and effectively carried out on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u34	The question is about ANPR camera shields, albeit not in West Flanders or Antwerp, but in Brussels and the edge.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u35	Mr President, each one stands up for his own region. Minister, just before Christmas, the mayors of Halle and Vilvoorde gathered for what they themselves call the Future Forum Halle-Vilvoorde. It should not be surprised that security was an important issue on that occasion. The subject is very broad. There is, of course, terrorism and radicalisation on the one hand. However, there is also, on the other hand, the fight against the many home invasions in our region. At the Future Forum, the federal government was asked for additional support for the realisation of an ANPR shield between the Brussels-Capital Region and Halle-Vilvoorde. In addition, the Future Forum calls for fair treatment of the Halle-Vilvoorde police areas by the federal government. The mayors consider that the municipalities of Halle-Vilvoorde receive considerably less resources from the federal pot. They consider this under-financing of police areas unacceptable in the light of the increase in the population and of the emerging metropolitan crime phenomena in the outskirts of Brussels. Minister, I have the following questions for you. Firstly, what means does the federal government allocate to support the realisation of such an ANPR shield between the Brussels-Capital Region and Halle-Vilvoorde? Secondly, how many resources have been allocated to the different police areas so far? Thirdly, what are your views on the demand for additional resources? By what time can they be released? Finally, are you aware of the sensitivities that exist about the unequal treatment in our region between the mayors? In what way do you intend to eliminate this underfunding? What are your deadlines? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u36	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Van Vaerenbergh for bringing to the attention of the Minister a very strong case at the local level. Mr Minister, in addition to what Mrs Van Vaerenbergh is asking, I would like to say that it is not the mayors who call themselves the Future Forum, but that the government agreement of the Flemish government states that such a forum should partly be the sounding board for the higher authorities, precisely because there are a number of acute problems in that region. These problems go beyond security, but security is effective, as Mrs Van Vaerenbergh has pointed out, one of the main concerns of the mayor group. There are three serious problems for which we have committed ourselves to bringing them to the attention of the federal government. The first concerns justice. In this respect, there is movement in the addition of the federal court of Halle-Vilvoorde. That's slow, but it's progressing. This is also progressing in the area of justice houses, as the Flemish government is also preparing a number of initiatives. I would like to invite the chairman of the committee to visit the ANPR shield around Brussels. He'll be back soon. However, the various police areas are now at last making serious efforts, in consultation with the provincial government. We will also see many initiatives in the police areas in this year's budget. This region faces metropolitan problems every day. Breaking and entering waves are also very often due to foreign gangs operating from the capital. If there is one place in this country where an ANPR shield is in place, then it is in the edge. And then I haven't mentioned the issue of terrorism. Hence perhaps the distress call of all the mayors to see if the intention can be accelerated to organise such shields together with the province. Of course, we are also looking at the implementation of the measures put forward by the government in the context of the anti-terrorist plan. On the second element, I must add a small word correction to what the previous speaker said. It is not the mayors' understanding that leads us to the conclusion that there is an unreasonable division. I have here a card from the statistics of the Home Office, which indicates in colour what amounts the different police areas get. I'll hand it over to you, Minister. You will indeed find that there is an incredibly uneven distribution of funding for local police areas from the federal pot. What is striking in the statistics is that there is a green zone around the capital with the lowest amounts, and that there is a very large contradiction in terms of funding. The figures based on the 1998 breakdown are completely obsolete. In turn, this division was based on the so-called KUL standard. It does not, of course, take into account the fact that the population has grown by a quarter in the outskirts and that the main problem is increasing. We are stuck there in a situation which, in terms of security, demography and problems, no longer resembles the situation at the time when that key was made. That is where the question arises as to whether there can be a catch-up in the form of additional support for those police areas which face metropolitan problems, but which receive the least resources in the whole country from that federal pot. It is a demand for redistribution and for special attention. I support Mrs Van Vaerenbergh's suggestion to try to clarify around a perspective that should undoubtedly be made there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ANPR is indeed a technological tool that has proved its worth in many places, both in preventing and combating crime and in increasing road safety. For this reason, Mr Bonte has referred to this issue and the federal government has decided to extend the ANPR network considerably in the coming years. In a first phase, the national borders and a number of strategic locations on the motorways will be covered by new cameras. Some of them will also be used as route control. In order to enable the network, I have instructed the federal police to make available to all police forces an echeloned system of hardware and software, of nutrition, processing and surveying. Work has started some time ago to do this. In addition, this year the federal police, and this for the benefit of the road police, will purchase nine mobile cameras. Local police zones will also be able to purchase mobile ANPR cameras via this public tender. So we're going to do a market survey to get the best possible prices and the local zones can, if they so wish, buy mobile ANPR cameras. The starting point is that it is in principle up to each zone to determine how they use the available budgetary space optimally, for example by purchasing innovative technologies. Synergy and consultation between police zones, encouraged and supported by the governor in many provinces, will be cost-effective and allow more efficient work. The province of Flemish Brabant is a nice illustration of this. Since 2012, the Federal State has paid an average of EUR 7.5 million annually to certain police areas, the capacity of which has been claimed in particular by the phenomenon of cross-border crime, by means of a federal donation to encourage recruitment policies in the police zones. This contribution, and this is new, can also be used for the placement of ANPR cameras to support the men. Several local police areas have already done so. The 7.5 million do not have to be used for men, so you can also buy ANPR cameras. Local areas will also be able to benefit from the revenues generated by the new ANPR traffic checks in the coming years through the Road Safety Fund. Thanks to the roll-out of ANPR cameras and especially route checks on the car strades, we will generate more revenue. We will therefore strongly encourage the reinvestment of that money into smart camera performances. That is why I have just said during the key tasks debate that the processing of fines will be partly automated. After all, it generates money. That's the idea. As far as your second question is concerned, I am of course aware of the call from the mayors of the Halle-Vilvoorde arrondissement regarding their position on the structural under-financing of their area, a call which, incidentally, was strongly echoed in the press. Despite my predecessors' efforts to eliminate inequality through social evolutions, I understand that the mayors of the arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde are not satisfied with this. However, I have often said that it is in my nature to answer questions honestly and to say things as they are, that during the negotiations on the coalition agreement the question was raised to review KUL standards. Since the budgetary constraints forced us to do so with a closed envelope, you will understand that this is a very difficult political matter. Adjusting the KUL standards is an option if one has a larger budget, but if one has to do so within a closed envelope, then fifty percent of the zones, so to speak, win and also lose fifty percent of the zones. We're all politicians enough to know that something like that wouldn't work. That is why we did not agree to this adjustment at the time. That's an honest answer. We cannot provide additional resources at all levels. That is why I am very fond of the merger and scaling-up carried out by a number of Flemish-Brabant police zones. It is a good thing not only from the point of view of efficiency, but above all from an organisational point of view, with a view to improving the provision of police services to the public in the area of security. I'll make budgets for that, to stimulate and support mergers. In Flemish Brabant a number of mergers are now under way. That's a good choice. The coalition agreement states that we will not impose an increase in the size of the police zones, but we will facilitate them. I may have budgets at my disposal to see how we can find each other. Finally, on an integrated security policy, the work carried out at federal level, in cooperation with the Länder, has almost been completed. I therefore believe that, together with the Minister of Justice and the Länder, I can quickly come forward with the memorandum on integrated security policy. In this context, I hope that the Flemish Brabants platform will be able to find itself. You will not find specific measures in this plan for all the geographical entities of our country. However, this framework paper will hopefully be a policy instrument that, in the spirit of shared responsibility, can contribute to finding solutions to security issues. The National Security Plan, or the Police Plan, which is aligned with this framework paper, will also be a policy framework for the police. This plan will be discussed with the Chiefs of Staff in each district by the DirCo concerned. This implementation plan will also be coordinated with a view to more geographical tailor-made work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We know that you are doing very good work in various areas, both in the fight against radicalisation and in the fight against cameras. Of course, we support the use of these cameras. They can solve many phenomena. I am also pleased that you understand the situation of our mayors in Halle-Vilvoorde. We cannot deny that because of our location we are attracting certain phenomena that we do not want in our region. I hope that you will be able to achieve something, either through mergers or in a different way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, even though I have a number of reservations. Firstly, a group purchase facilitated by the Home Office does not always lead to efficiency and cheaper material. I've been through that. You don't need to convince any police force in the perimeter of the importance of ANPR anymore. You referred to drawing rights and the traffic ticket fund. I do not know what you meant by that, but there is a demand for support in the roll-out of something which is very expensive, but which is considered necessary to tackle cross-border crime. The word "cross-border," "cross-border," may sound strange in this context, but the phenomena are the same. I come from the border region between Kortrijk and northern France. In trials and crime phenomena, I regret to say, there is about the same system in the capital and the region around it. In fact, it is also a border area. Secondly, Minister, you referred to it. It's actually not sustainable anymore. It is no longer fair for certain police zones to have multiple police zones around the capital, knowing that the population is increasing by a quarter and crime phenomena are becoming more and more metropolitan. It's really not like this anymore. You refer to mergers and cooperation. This morning I again received a report on the preparatory work under the Channel Plan. We will be able to discuss this later, here or elsewhere. The gap between police forces and police zones is sometimes too wide to work together. I am in favour of good cooperation, but one cannot continue to look at the one who does his job and the other who does not and yet throw the funds together. I agree that scaling up should be considered. From the local level, I even want to take my responsibilities into account, but not to do another person's work myself, while doing nothing. That's where the problem is. That is why I urge that I also give you the information to look at this distorted distribution. You're doing politics under the slogan "change." Well, there may be a change in that regard. You're concreteing what's become crooked. Let us try to get that distributed in a fairer way so that all police officers in this country can deal with such phenomena with equal weapons.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u40	Mr President, Minister, following the terrorist threat, the government has decided to release EUR 400 million for judicial and preventive police operations. A lot of police areas have to spend extra money because of the increased threat level. For example, threat level 3, which was applicable for a long time, required additional investments for the general and specific equipment of the local areas. In addition, extra police supervision was used at events where many people were present. Mr Minister, I have a few questions about that. I heard that the police have been asked to make an estimate of the additional financial resources they need in the context of that terrorist threat. Can you give an overview of this by zone? What amount of the EUR 400 million earmarked will be released and directly benefit the local police areas in the context of the terrorist threat? On the basis of what criteria will this amount be distributed among the local areas? Will the areas that can use resources according to their own needs in the context of the terrorist threat, or will conditions be imposed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u41	Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to point out that my question No 8457 has been transformed into a written question. For the sake of efficiency, I propose to postpone my question No 8458 until next week. Minister, the largest police union organization was concerned in the press on 12 January about how the 400 million announced by the government would actually be distributed among the various security services. Like many parliamentarians, the organization notes that, two months after the announcement of this sum, little information is given on how it will be allocated. According to this organization, it would seem that your office would have informed him that the police should not hope to benefit from more than 60 million out of the 400 million announced (the remaining 40 million being a carry-over of the 100 million last year). In a context where police services have already suffered significant budget cuts, this is a situation on which clarity must be made. Minister, to the extent that the government would entrust the departments with the responsibility of identifying relevant projects through a call for projects, has this call already been formally launched? Have any project sheets already been returned? What is the proportion of the amounts available that can be used for structural funding, which is much needed at the level of police services? Has a general distribution of the 400 million between the various departments already been established, as seems to be evident from the comments made by your firm to the trade union representatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u42	Mr Demeyer, I would first like to make a brief comment on your comments. The articles in the press mentioning the 60 million on the trade union side are based on nothing. I tried to find out who, in my firm, gave what comments, but I didn't succeed. This has nothing to do with it. An amalgam is made. It's far from the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u43	We are obliged to refer to what we are reading!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u44	That is why I am making this comment without grudge. In my meeting with the Chairman of the Standing Committee and yesterday's discussion with the Bureau of the Bureau, it has been stated that no decision has yet been taken on the allocation of the additional EUR 400 million to the security services. An initial decision-making round will take place by the end of January 2016. At present, however, no decision has been taken. In this context, I indicated to the Standing Committee that it had to file a dossier for the local police. The Standing Commission has made an urgent call on local police areas. More than 40 zones have already submitted more than 90 dossiers. The Office of the Standing Committee has carried out an initial analysis of needs. This shows that the needs are very diverse and diverse. So not all dossiers can be directly linked to the fight against terrorism. Some zones empty their drawers with projects they still had. It's up to us to detect the link to terrorism. I have also received an overall estimate of the needs of the zones. This estimate is in the order of EUR 25 million. I have yet to look at the need assessment and the estimate for the individual 40 zones. For this reason, the CPPL believes that, in the context of the possible granting of the appropriations made available, criteria must be taken into account for this purpose. I have just received these needs determinations. I am committed to putting on the table these demands of the local police in the fight against terrorism. No decision has yet been taken and no way to assess this request in the 40 areas has been determined.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u45	Minister, what is the EUR 25 million for?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u46	The 25 million is intended for the projects which have submitted the 40 zones. There are also projects that we will not select because they are not directly linked to terrorism. For example, this 400 million is not intended for the purchase of new tickets. That's still under review. We have told the Standing Committee that we will also present the local authorities' project under the EUR 400 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u47	In the ninety dossiers of the 40 zones, you still have to clean out EUR 25 million, and that could be within that EUR 400 million?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u48	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u49	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u50	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Vanessa Matz's 8326 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u51	Mr Minister, a few months ago I asked you about the reform of the legislative framework for the protection of young people, which, as we know, is a Community competence. You told me that the relevant services were working in consultation with the federal services. While youth assistance and the protection of minors are within the competence of the Communities, it is clear that certain acts committed by minors require organized communication between the youth services on the one hand and the local and federal police services on the other. An increasing number of young minors are being monitored by the juvenile courts in the context of acts of radicalism or acts of rapprochement or allegiance to terrorist circles. Minister, what information procedure is currently in place within the local and federal police services and at the local and federal police services, in connection with the placement of minors for acts of radicalization and rapprochement with terrorist circles? How and through which channels are police officers informed and sensitized about these placements? Is a specific communication addressed to the police services at the end of a placement in the IPPJ, considering that the duration of such placements varies from two months to twenty months, following the decision of the juvenile magistrates? Is the police informed of the end of an placement? Is there a cross-link between these young minors placed between local and federal police services and community institutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u52	Dear colleague, since we live in a rather complex country, your first two questions fall within the competence of the Communities. To answer your third question, the exchange of information and follow-up of foreign terror fighters from Belgium are regulated by the joint circular of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice of 21 August 2015. This circular provides for the development and establishment of a dynamic data bank to manage and share foreign terror fighters. This database is fed by the services of the foreign fighters working group and local task force. This has the effect of centralizing the personal information sheet. The persons registered in the dynamic database are those who meet the definition of a foreign terrorist fighter as reflected in the ministerial circular. Minors may also be included in this database. The experience of the police and intelligence services shows that it is impossible to limit the registration of foreign terror fighters to a certain age. It has already happened that a minor under the age of 12 has left for a conflict zone. In such situations, the impossibility of registering young people could be detrimental to the protection of minors and could be detrimental to the taking of preventive measures. These measures are important in the context of the procedure laid down in the circular of the Ministers of Justice and the Interior. It is therefore essential that no minimum age is set to encode minors in the data strip. The services concerned will pay particular attention to reports relating to minors in the database. As far as judicial measures are concerned, we refer to the circular of the Attorneys General. In order to build confidence between security services, social prevention services and other social sectors and to ensure a smooth transmission of information, the circular also provides for the creation of a local consultation platform in the form of a local integral security unit. In terms of radicalism, the mechanisms for sharing information existing under the R Plan remain in place. This also applies to minors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u53	Minister, thank you for your partial answer. I understand that we are in complicated institutional situations, but I do not see Mr. Madrane asking me how your police officers are informed of the procedures for placement of young minors and the termination of placement. Services must be able to provide feedback on how they are informed. But if you prefer, I can ask one of my colleagues to question the appropriate community minister because, as a Member of Parliament, I am not entitled to do so. However, I am surprised that police officers do not have any information on this subject and that I have to interview the minister in charge of the placement of young minors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u54	Minister, as you know, an Advisory Council of Mayors was established many years ago. In 2014, a reform of this body was carried out and the establishment of a Council of Mayors was decided, the latter being able to make own-initiative opinions and recommendations, in addition to the competences of the Standing Commission of the Local Police (CPPL) which you recently visited. Minister, can you clarify to me the role of the Council of Mayors in the area of security and policing in the federal services? More specifically, how many recommendations have been made by the Council of Mayors since 2014? How many consultation meetings have been held since 2014 between the federal authorities and the Council of Mayors, specifically on police matters? When and on what methodological basis is the Council of Mayors consulted in the context of the latest decisions on the guidance note, on which you gave us valuable information at the beginning of the committee? Finally, have joint questions from the Council and the Standing Commission of the Local Police ever been transmitted to the federal authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u55	Mr Pivin, the law organizing an integrated police service structured on two levels provides that the Council of Mayors may issue recommendations of initiative or at my request. This prerogative was granted in 2014 in order to strengthen its role. In its new configuration, the Council of Mayors has not yet issued a recommendation, in particular because, for the time being, it is no longer fully constituted. In fact, most of its members have not been reappointed in their term of office after the last communal elections and, consequently, cannot serve there. The procedure for the designation of their successors is under way. At the end of last year, I asked for applications. We are now considering a fair and balanced distribution of seats. I hope that we can succeed in the coming weeks. The Council of Mayors in its old version gave opinions on all regulatory texts – laws, royal decrees and circulars. For example, he expressed his opinion on the regulations for allocating the appropriations to police areas. In view of the time allowed, the secretariat of the body – which is provided by the Standing Commission of the Local Police – cannot communicate the number of these recommendations. This reply will be sent to you in writing at a later date. Secondly, in view of its currently restricted constitution, the Council of Mayors works mainly by electronic means. However, a meeting was held in 2014. The meeting was attended by members of the technical and administrative secretariat. In addition to considering a request for an opinion on regulatory texts, this meeting was the venue for discussions on communal administrative sanctions and PLP 52 on quarterly reporting of police area budget data. Moreover, as I have already explained, the Council of Mayors in its present composition is essentially working on an electronic basis in order to deliver its opinions. For the time being, this procedure applies, regardless of the subject matter or regulatory text submitted. As soon as it has been fully constituted again, I hope in the coming weeks, it will logically resume its normal functioning and meet again physically. Depending on when its new configuration will be effective, it will transmit its recommendations according to the traditional procedure. In view of the delay, I have not been able to obtain figures from the secretariat of the Standing Commission of the Local Police, which provides the secretariat of the Council of Mayors. This response will be given at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u56	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u57	Minister, Level 4 terrorist alert had never been implemented in a regional territory. The experience of the lockdown in Brussels has been traumatic, both for the Brusselsers and for all Belgians, therefore also for our traders and for the economic and social life as a whole. While it is clear that any decision depends on the definition of the threat, whether targeted or not, registered by the OCAM, it would appear today that a number of closures of establishments were not completely indispensable. On the other hand, the question of official channels of information and communication to professional federations, for example traders and self-employed people, has already been acutely raised. If the federal government has decided to assist these economic actors in the face of these significant and significant disruptions to their activities and jobs, through the initiatives of Minister Borsus, but also your government, I would like to hear more specifically about the procedures in place for this level of alert. What information and consultation procedures are in place within the framework of an emergency plan to secure independent businesses and shopping centres between the police, emergency services and professional representatives of these economic activities? What criteria are considered in relation to OCAM alert levels in order to decide whether or not to close commercial establishments? What risk prevention measures are in place and communicated to ensure the information and organisation of professional federations of traders, self-employed and service companies present in shopping centres, in the context of an imminent and serious threat on Belgian territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u58	Mr Pivin, as regards business information, a communication structure was agreed between the companies represented by FEB-VBO and the federal authorities. The target is double. First, to communicate to the federal authorities any suspicious behaviour and facts related to terrorism around companies. Second, issue warnings and recommendations from federal authorities to the FEB. The messages depart from, or converge towards the Crisis Center and pass through a central contact point at Proximus. With regard to the November lockdown last year, it was through this system that the Crisis Centre, having made prior contact with the FEB, relayed a coordinated message from the FEB, in which it called on companies and organizations to have a calculated vigilance. As for UNIZO, the Crisis Centre also contacted UNIZO to stop a coordinated mode of communication, which UNIZO itself provided via its website, and to set up a specific telephone number. We contacted both organizations and took UNIZO as the point of contact. The federal authorities did not request the closure of the stores, but we invited the local police chiefs to conduct an operational risk analysis. We left it to the local level, on the basis of this operational analysis, to take the necessary security measures at their level. An enhanced and highly visible presence has in any case been requested for any event throughout the national territory. The closure of the shops was a decision of the local government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u59	I confirm that I was present at this meeting. Was the procedure you were talking about at the beginning of your answer put in place after, or was it already in place? In this case, what were they complaining about if they already had an information procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u60	For the FEB, this already existed. For UNIZO, who received a lot of requests in the evening, we installed it at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u61	Mr. Chair, Minister, I will not recall the events that occurred in Thalys in August 2015. You have taken specific measures to strengthen security in consultation with your colleague in charge of Mobility, including the intensification of police patrols and military personnel at railway stations, or the development of coordinations with your French counterpart. Considering the existing cooperation between the Belgian and French authorities, as well as your meeting on 26 August in Paris on strengthening the means to secure the railway network, I would like to ask you about the cooperation that has been established between the French and Belgian authorities in connection with the installation of the security gates placed by France on the boarding docks. I am of course going to ask the Minister for Mobility about this shortly, but I wanted to ask you, in your capacity as Minister of the Interior, what French facilities have actually been set up and which are managed by the police on the docks hosting the Thalys international train, considering that it crosses our country and stops at several Belgian stations, including the one in Brussels-Midi. Minister, what consultations have been held between the French and Belgian governments to improve safety on Thalys trains? What procedures for the exchange of passenger registration information have been implemented and are currently in place? Has the installation of control portals on the wharfs used by Thalys in our country been decided? Who is responsible for such an installation on Belgian territory? Finally, are the measures referred to in your circular informing police officers of the framework to be followed to conduct spot checks of identity and baggage at stations effectively monitored? Has there ever been an evaluation of these measures by the directorates, including that of the railway police?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u62	Mr President, Mr Pivin, from a police point of view, there has always been good contact with the French police services. Within the framework of cross-border cooperation for rail traffic, most contacts are carried out between the Belgian Railway Police (SPC) and the French Border Police (PAF). These services regularly organise mixed patrols between Belgium and France for IC trains between Brussels and Paris and Brussels and Lille. After the events in Paris, controls intensified. At present, approximately 6 trains per day are accompanied by a mixed patrol, in addition to the various patrols carried out unilaterally by the French and/or Belgian police. At the level of Governments, I repeat that we will soon have a meeting on bilateral cooperation. For the time being, it is not possible to establish lists of passengers exploitable by the police services. Indeed, it is possible to buy transport tickets on the internet without identity checks. Besides, we can use an alias. A transport document of the same name may also be handed over to a third party without any problems. Upon boarding a Thalys, only the possession of a transport document is controlled and not the identity of the passengers. Discussions between SNCB, SPF Mobility and Rail Police (SPC) on whether or not to install portals are ongoing, but also on other types of security such as smart camera systems. To answer your last question, I must say that at present we have no figures and no evaluation has been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u63	Mr President, it is interesting to hear that tickets can be obtained anonymously. That is correct. Minister, are measures being considered to improve people's control?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u64	Yes. I am thinking of the PNR system, which not only concerns aircraft, but also international trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u65	Is it already in place? Will he be soon?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u66	He's not in place. Only Italy and the United Kingdom already have such a system. The bill has already been introduced to the government. It is now under consideration by the Council of State. The issue of the launch of the public procurement is currently under discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u67	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns STIB, which, following dramatic events, has been forced to strengthen its strengthened security service but which certainly does not meet the needs. In fact, on a fairly regular basis, STIB's security service is meant to be understaffed. This is confirmed by his supervisory authority. Mr Minister, has STIB recently worked with the police, in particular with the railway police and the metro brigade of the Federal Police, to ensure effective operational functioning and also to ensure the transmission of sensitive information to the various police services, which is, of course, aimed at the threats we are currently facing? Finally, is the operation of private agents who have been engaged as a matter of urgency by STIB subject to consultation with your services or your firm or are they strictly local or regional initiatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u68	Mr. Pivin, during incidents on the metro and pre-metro network and during the preparation of events, direct and almost daily contacts take place between the Federal Railway Police Service responsible for underground network security and STIB. In addition, for many years, the Brussels Director-Coordinator has been organising once a month a public transport platform bringing together the various internal and external partners (local police areas, SPC, TEC, SNCB, De Lijn and STIB) to exchange information and initiate joint actions (four per year). On 27 October 2015, a Memorandum of Cooperation for Safety on the STIB Underground Network was signed between STIB and the Federal Railway Police. This protocol provides, inter alia, for the holding of at least twice a year of a strategic committee and once a month of an operational committee with the objective of developing an intervention strategy and implementing joint actions. In addition, the Federal Railway Police participates in an internal STIB working group on the issue of terrorism. In conclusion, I can confirm that the consultation and collaboration between STIB and local police services and federal police entities is in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u69	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u70	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemagne's 8410 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u71	Mr President, Minister, the strength of the West Brabant Walloon Police Area is very limited in order to be able to adequately manage security in the communes of this area. This is mainly due to the presence in this area of the famous Ittre prison. The recent decision of the Minister of Justice to create a new wing to accommodate radicalized prisoners is a matter of concern to prison and West Brabant Walloon police personnel. Indeed, it could undermine the current balance and lead to a significant surplus of work for police officers. You are aware that police officers are very commonly solicited to effect transfers of detainees. In addition, in the event of strikes and periods of tension, police officers are called upon to replace or strengthen prison staff. There's been a few of them lately. The police area has been used several times to assist the guards. It is easy to imagine that, under these conditions, the management of security in the various communes of the area can be done less easily with a small number of people. Minister, has Minister Geens' recent decision been coordinated with you and your services? Will it lead to an increase in the size of this area? If that's not the case, can you explain why?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u72	Mr Crusnière, I will leave it to my colleague, the Minister of Justice, to elaborate on the decision taken on the creation of the two special sections of 20 places each in Hasselt and Ittre. I can already tell you that, according to the information currently available, there will be no increase in the capacity of Ittre prison. Indeed, a section was released to create a new one, according to a principle of communicating vases. Therefore, there will be no impact on the current burden of the police area in managing possible strike movements. As regards both convicted and accused persons still requiring extractions to the Chamber of Counsel, there could indeed be an increase in the police workload on transfers to Brussels. However, given that police officers in this police area are already making transfers to the capital, we will examine the extent to which these transfers can be integrated with those currently being made. However, if the police workload is proven, we will of course look at all the avenues to increase the strength of this police area or to support it in this mission, in particular through the call for the personnel of the DirCo concerned. In the event of a transfer, the charges do not increase. If it turns out that there are more transfers, we will examine whether we can consolidate transport or increase the size of this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u73	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear that a door is open to even temporary support for transfers. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the number of police officers funded by the federal government and calculated at the time of the zone was decided long before the establishment of this prison in Ittre. The deficit found is not new. I think that this element should be analysed and the number of police officers and the refinancing of the federal government should be recalculated, as the workload has been significantly increased as a result of the establishment of the Ittre prison. As a result, the municipalities in this area have suffered and deserve attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u74	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fernandez Fernandez 8437 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demeyer (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. His question No. 8458 will be dealt with next week in the context of the discussion of the police's key tasks debate. Debates of the European Parliament President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 8468 is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Grovonius' 8521 is hereby repealed. I see two committee members looking very enthusiastically at each other to be able to ask their combined questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u75	Mr President, before I elaborate on my question, I would like to say that we have received, as agreed last week, the answers to the questions transformed into written questions. However, I have still not received the December document concerning Electrabel. Minister, you're coming back from Doel. You have seen the interest of the media and the public in this important issue of nuclear security. I will address not the legitimate concern of our neighbours but the opinion just given by the Scientific Council of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN) on nuclear emergency planning in Belgium. The Council issued eleven specific recommendations. I would like to have confirmation that, in this case, you will follow what you have always defined as your only nuclear safety policy line, namely to follow the positions of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency as they stand. Remember the discussions we had on Doel 3, Doel 2, Doel 1 and Tihange 2: your course of action has always been to say that you are following the recommendations and opinions of AFCN. I would therefore like to check that this will be the case for the recommended enlargement of the shelter areas to 20 kilometres and for the extension of the distribution of iodine tablets to the whole territory. I would also like to hear your confirmation that you will follow Recommendation 11.E and organize life-size evacuation exercises, including outside emergency planning areas. Finally, I would like to know more about your timetable following the publication of this opinion. How many weeks or months will you be able to present the new contingency plan to your government colleagues? What are the steps that still need to be taken before this can be achieved? To return to the issue of iodine pills, I assume that this will remain the responsibility of nuclear operators and that it will not be the Belgian citizens who will have to buy their iodine pills.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u76	Mr President, Minister, I am not going to repeat the explanation of my colleague Nollet. I come directly to the opinion that has been delivered. This opinion falls at a rather special time and leads to a series of considerations. I watched RTBF on Sunday morning, where a debate was held with the former director of the National Institute of Radioelements (IRE) in Fleurus. In his view, it was finally quite logical to propose the extension of the distribution of iodine tablets, since the decision had been taken to renew the authorisation to operate the former nuclear power plants. It is quite disturbing to hear this from a professional in the sector. The Scientific Council of Ionizing Radiation has just given this opinion and recommends, drawing lessons from the Fukushima disaster, to extend the distribution to almost all of Belgium. We can understand that because we are in a highly nuclearized territory. There are our seven reactors but there are also the six Gravelines reactors 30 kilometres from Flanders, there are two reactors at Chooz, 19 kilometres from Dinant, there are four reactors at Cattenom, 40 kilometres from Arlon, and a reactor at Borssele, 15 kilometres from the border. It is not just Belgian reactors that pose risks to the population! I would like to add that in March 2015, the Supreme Council of Health also voted in favour of a rapid distribution of iodine tablets at distances up to 100 kilometres from the site of a nuclear accident. This opinion is in line with that of the European radiation protection authorities. Will the government follow the advice of the Higher Council of Health and the Scientific Council of Ionizing Radiation by expanding the distribution area of iodine tablets? What is your opinion on the matter? As my colleague has said, your course of action has always been to follow the advice of the AFCN unconditionally, and you have recalled, in recent weeks, that you have reiterated your complete confidence in them. The Scientific Council proposes a distribution throughout the territory: will you follow it? It is clear to me, however, that it is not for the citizens to pay for these iodine tablets, but for the electricity producers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, I can confirm that this morning's visit to Doel has attracted a great deal of interest from the national and foreign media. Last week, AFCN published an opinion from the Scientific Council for Ionizing Radiation on emergency planning in Belgium. First of all, I want to be clear in this respect: my policy will always be to follow the advice of the AFCN within the framework of its competences. The report, which contained good recommendations, did not decide how to implement them. Indeed, it is rather the responsibility of other services, or even a political decision. As with other opinions in this area, such as that of the Higher Council of Health (SHC), the various options are being examined by my services in view of their impact on the updating of the national nuclear emergency plan. Such an analysis is not insignificant, as it requires careful strategic and operational translation and requires weighing the advantages and disadvantages of the different assumptions. Thus, with regard to the strategy for the distribution of iodine tablets, the opinion of the CSS and that of the Scientific Council of Ionizing Radiation of the AFCN agree that an organization must be ensured that these tablets are readily available throughout the country in the event of a real emergency. Both opinions acknowledge the importance of predistribution – 20 km around nuclear facilities and 10 km for the IRE (National Radioelement Institute) in Fleurus – currently in force. However, the CSS does not express itself on the strategy that the authorities must follow in order to extend it to the whole country. The Scientific Council of AFCN, for its part, proposes some pragmatic solutions, either a predistribution throughout the country or a storage of iodine tablets in all pharmacies in Belgium. Such proposals, but also other avenues, are currently being evaluated in consultation with my colleague from Public Health in view of the current situation. In addition to the above-mentioned predistribution, there are stocks of iodine tablets in all operational units of civil protection in order to facilitate distribution outside the 20 km zone in the event of a real emergency, throughout the country. Pending the outcome of this ongoing analysis, I would like to point out that the Belgian strategy goes further than those in most neighbouring countries, which are also confronted with similar opinions. Moreover, these countries do not use the principle of predistribution of iodine tablets to the population. A strategic and operational analysis should also be carried out with regard to the proposal of the Scientific Council of the AFCN to extend, where appropriate, the protected area up to 20 km, as this would be linked to the area of predistribution of iodine tablets. With regard to the proposal of the AFCN Scientific Council to organize emergency planning exercises whose impact extends beyond the emergency planning areas, I would like to inform you that this is an option that will be examined as closely as possible. This, in particular, is because, as part of the updating of the national nuclear emergency plan, attention is also being paid to provinces whose territory is not directly affected by a nuclear emergency planning area. An evolution towards fewer exercises but with greater impact also has disadvantages. Until further notice, the safety features of nuclear operators are intended to ensure that no emergency situations occur or that, if this were to be the case, its impact is limited. In the opinion of the Scientific Council of AFCN, in order to justify the scope of the emergency planning zones, it is referred to the additional security arrangements in Belgian nuclear power plants, in particular the second-level protection systems of our plants. Focusing only on very large-scale exercises – where it is necessary to ensure that the existing mechanisms of the actors concerned are not disrupted in their continuous functioning – goes beyond this reality. With regard to the timing of the updating of the national nuclear emergency plan, I can confirm, after consultation with my colleague from Public Health on the work on the distribution of iodine – already under way before the recommendation of the Scientific Council of the AFCN – that a multi-stage plan will be drawn up as soon as possible. Many improvements to the contingency plan do not require any changes to the text. They have already been implemented on the ground. These texts define only the framework, and the purpose of amending the texts is only to update it. The initial work on the texts has already taken place and will be finalized in the coming months. Even after the publication of the new texts, the lessons learned from these and other improvements will be implemented as part of continuous improvement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u78	Minister, I cannot follow you in all your reasoning. You seem to say that the Federal Agency, through its scientific council, would open up leads but would not be in the affirmative on a number of elements. When I read the recommendation, it is very clear, although I agree that there are discussions on the modalities. I quote Recommendation 3B: "Extension of iodine availability must be guaranteed for the entire territory". After that, there is a debate on the modalities, i.e. centralized stocks or the extension of predistribution. I think we have to combine the two. I do not imagine that a Belgian hearing the alarm should go to a distribution centre at 20 km and then go back in the opposite direction. We need both! Tablets are needed for communities and individuals at home. You have to be able to take these pills very quickly. Minister, I hope you have the same reading as me and you can reassure me. The recommendation states that availability must be guaranteed. The same applies to Recommendation No. 2, which refers to safe haven areas. It says: "They must be guaranteed in the current predistribution zones, i.e. 20 km". I hear you doubt that. The Federal Agency does not say that it should be discussed, but rather that it "must be expanded". With regard to the exercises I have also mentioned to you, I read recommendation 11e: "The organisation of exercises, including outside the planning and emergency areas, must be organised." If we follow the Agency's advice, these are really obligations. So I don't understand the distance you're taking. It's not in your habits. I agree that there is a debate on the modalities. But in principle, minister, on these three points, are you going to be distracted from the opinion of the Federal Agency? Be clear about this! I have two or three items to add next, but this is for me the main thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u79	Minister, I am on the same line. There are two things. You are talking about the modalities, how this new enlargement measure would be applied. It's one thing. But you do not tell us whether or not, you agree, if you are going to make this territorial expansion of distribution. Yes or no, are you going to? After that, the modalities are something else. It can be understood that you are studying the best possible modality. But you don't answer that first question, which I find simple. You're usually more categorical.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u80	We are currently in the preparation phase of the plan. I don't usually make a decision when I'm still getting advice. I would add that this kind of decision must be taken in consultation with the Minister of Health. Work is under way. This plan will be submitted to you in the coming months and, in any case, as soon as possible. But the opinions of these two bodies are very important and very significant. I did the same with the full security briefing note. On that occasion, I had also been questioned about opinions. I replied that these were important and that the plan would be submitted as soon as possible. Therefore, who will live will see! I repeat that I will not take a position now when the opinions of different bodies are still to be submitted to us. Having said that, if I had been in the opposition, I would have asked the same questions. So I understand you very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u81	Minister, I do not think this is a question of opposition and majority, even if it could become one. I am surprised to see that, with regard to all the other nuclear files, you have stated that you would follow the opinion of the Agency when, in this case, you are taking your distance. You're not saying the other way around yet. Be sure that this is not a charge. I'm trying to be very specific because I know you're used to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u82	We have to make a difference. When referring to an opinion from the AFCN, this means that an investigation has been conducted and the danger has been estimated. Here, we are preparing a plan. I receive opinions from several bodies. These opinions have a scope other than that relating to the possible extension of nuclear power plants. Since the opinions of the bodies concerned are very important, I will not take a position today. That said, the plan under consideration will be submitted to you as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u83	Minister, finally, we will be aware of the answers to our questions when you release your emergency plan. When are you going to introduce him to us?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u84	It is always difficult to decide on a timing, but my note stated that we would be able to do so in 2016. I'm aware of the urgency. Therefore, we are working on it, just like you, to get it as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u85	Minister, I cannot share your methodological option. When the Agency says that "it is necessary", in this case, you do not have to distance yourself, even from a methodological point of view! Nevertheless, I note that, in substance, you consider these opinions to be very important, very significant. As for the exercises, the ones requested by the Federal Agency, outside the planning areas, pose disadvantages. Yes! But one must imagine the disadvantages of an accident that would require evacuation! If the evacuation is not well organised and the citizens do not have the right reflexes, this would lead, even without the nuclear component, to much more serious disadvantages. Let us go beyond this question rather than go beyond reality! I will read your answer carefully as it will be transcribed by the services, because the words "beyond reality" cause me some concern. For failure to properly capture them, a reading of the report will be appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u86	Questions Nos 8624, 8625 and 8627 by Mr Kir were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 8628 by Mrs Temmerman and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on Mrs Dumery's 8638 were postponed. Questions Nos 8639 and 8640 by Mr Dallemagne have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u87	Mr Minister, in advance of your meeting on 18 January with the Luxembourg Secretary of State for Sustainable Development, Mr Camille Gira, the latter has re-expressed in the press his "concerns about the deficiencies found in the Tihange nuclear power plants". In particular, he reiterated that the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg remained "unsatisfied with cooperation with the Belgian authorities". If the meeting on 18 January was necessary, it was also essential for the Luxembourg authorities, as the information in their possession until that date did not allow them to be fully reassured. For our neighbours, our country is starting a powerhouse where all issues are not resolved. Moreover, the Secretary of State complained about the lack of cooperation with Belgium. According to him, it works better with the French than with the Belgians. I quote: "The transmission of information is more regular and faster with the French authorities than with the Belgian authorities". Mr Minister, did your meeting help to remove the fears expressed by the Luxembourg authorities following the repeated incidents in the Tihange power stations? What answer have you given to the Luxembourg Secretary of State who has criticized and wants closer cooperation with our country in the exchange of information on nuclear energy? Meanwhile, I've been reading the press for the last few days. I read Mr. Bens' statement that he would have said that for Tihange 2 and Doel 3, if it had been a new authorization and not a restart, he would not have given a favourable opinion. According to the press, I think he told the Luxembourg interlocutors that. It's still a matter of concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u88	Mr Thiébaut, the meeting held on 18 January with the Luxembourg authorities allowed us to answer fully the questions asked about the state of security in Tihange. Information was provided on the incidents at the Belgian power plants, particularly in Tihange, as well as on the in-depth security review processes using international expertise that was followed before a decision was made to restart Tihange 2 and Doel 3. For the latter, defects in the tanks had been identified in the summer of 2012. The Belgian-Luxembourg relations in the field of radiation protection and nuclear safety have been in existence for many years. The competent services have established an active information exchange practice which is considered excellent by the Belgian side. Such exchanges take place not only at the bilateral level but also at the multilateral level within organisations such as WENRA, RK, ENSREG or IAEA. These exchanges often lead to collaborations in particular in the field of radiation protection. For example, the Luxembourg campaign to raise awareness of the dangers of overconsumption in medical imaging is largely based on the Belgian campaign, the content and organisation of which was shared with the Luxembourg side. In December 2013, the Belgian and Luxembourg governments wanted to endorse these good collaborations in a specific agreement. This Gäichel agreement attests to and strengthens existing relations. Thus the question of exchanges relating to the Tihange power plant is expressly described. The agreement also provides for rapid exchanges in the event of incidents. This practice has always existed. Each year, a state-of-the-art meeting is held, at which orientations are outlined for each year to come. The next meeting will take place in February 2016. At the end of this meeting, press releases are being issued, which to date have always confirmed the excellent collaboration in progress. At the meeting with Mr Gira, it was decided to further strengthen this good collaboration, in particular through the organisation of cross-inspections such as those which have existed for several years with France and since this morning with the Netherlands. So we organized this cross-inspection. Although the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg does not have a nuclear power plant, we are prepared to communicate with it in full transparency. As far as tanks are concerned, we have provided all the necessary information. The data have been exchanged, but it is not up to me to convince the antinuclears to become pronuclear. That wasn't my ambition. The objective was to invite, in a spirit of openness, delegates from neighbouring countries to participate in inspection visits. We have done everything in our power in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u89	Minister, thank you. I have to tell you right away that I'm not antinuclear at all. I'm mostly pro-security.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u90	Minister, since 2007, citizens have been able to complain and report minor crime, such as bicycle or shoplifting and vandalism, through the online application of Police-on-web. The system is extensive and Police-on-web now also offers the possibility to set a message of absence and to log in an alarm system. Recently UNIZO asked to change the procedure for reporting a shop theft online. Currently, it is not possible to forward the surveillance footage online to Police-on-web. For this, shopkeepers still have to visit the police station in person, which they do not regard as unduly cumbersome. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Do you intend to allow shopkeepers to transmit their camera images online? In what way? What's the timing for this? Police-on-web was created in collaboration with Fedict. What role has Fedict played in this? What role will Fedict play in the further computerization of the back and front office? What is the current budget for Police-on-web? How has that amount evolved since 2007? What steps will be taken to automate the back office? What investments do you plan to make in the short term? What would be the cost of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u91	Mr Vermeulen, in the current Police-on-web application, it is currently technically impossible to transmit surveillance footage online to Police-on-web. Restarting an online hotline to replace eCops is a project that should be launched by the federal police this year. She will look at the track to integrate the improved hotline into Police-on-web. The complete renewal of Police-on-web is not an immediate priority under the current circumstances, but the possible expansion of the service offering via Police-on-web is part of a wider vision of e-gov and will be examined and developed in a later phase in consultation with the various actors involved, Justice, the Permanent Commission of Local Police, the Federal Police and the Digital Agenda of Minister De Croo. That is why it is too early at this stage to make a budgetary assessment. In the Police-on-web project, Fedict provides the front office and the federal police for the back office. The police are certainly interested in continuity of work to improve interaction with the citizen. However, it is unclear whether Fedict can continue to guarantee that supporting role. It is my intention to sit together with my colleague and Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Development Cooperation, Digital Agenda, Telecommunications and Post. On the police side, no specific budgets are foreseen. Work is mainly concerned with interconnections between systems. For Fedict, I would once again refer you to my colleague De Croo for a specific answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u92	Mr President, Minister, digital access for citizens is of course important, both for the citizen and for the police. Such access will ensure that a number of tasks can also be avoided for them, otherwise requiring more intensive staffing. I understand it's technically impossible. I also understand that the story of Police-on-web is actually becoming an outdated system, that the story should be seen more broadly in the context of e-government and that it will be further developed in a roadmap.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u93	Minister, I have heard that on Tuesday 8 October the Ministers for the Interior met in Luxembourg. There are more such meetings with ministers in Luxembourg, but on that day there was a programme of surveillance of external borders and the return policy for illegal immigrants. The European Commission has already put forward a proposal for a smart borders package in 2013, but there has never been an effective roll-out to date, especially because of the cost price on the one hand and legislative privacy issues on the other. Last year, the European Parliament invited the Presidents of the National Parliaments' Internal Affairs Committees to discuss this with their LIBE Committee. I was there. The contrasts between the theoretical fores and opponents and the practical fores and againsts were discussed again. Now the proposal of the biometric data of the smart borders package comes to the fore. This, of course, has everything to do with the huge increase in the number of asylum seekers, which makes border surveillance more important, and that also includes the fight against terrorism. There is an explicit demand from many countries to increase border controls not only at the external borders of the Schengen area but also at national internal borders. I'll come to my questions. Where are the negotiations on the smart borders package? Can you give me a timing? What would that cost to Belgium? I have heard the general figures, but for Belgium I once received a figure in preparation for that meeting in the European Parliament. Will there be any returns? Which countries are already using biometric data scans? In Zaventem I saw it myself and also a few times at Frontex. Will the data be shared with other Member States? What other measures have been discussed that could contribute to better border controls at the external borders of the Schengen area?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u94	Mr President, I think we have a procedural problem. As the questioner, you are supposed to leave the chair, but then there will be no one to sit in front of the sitting. You have indeed understood that the smart borders package was discussed at a high level at the JHA Council in Luxembourg. Allow me to briefly outline the background to the negotiations at EU level. In early 2015, the first reading of the smart borders package in the Council Working Group Borders was completed. It was then decided to carry out a pilot project in 2015, given the cost and impact of the proposal at the external borders. A report was presented at the end of 2015. On the basis of that report, the European Commission will present a new proposal in March 2016, i.e. in two months' time, and the legislative process will resume. Belgium called on the JHA Council to take sufficient time to take good, cost-effective and implementable decisions. The total cost of the package was estimated at EUR 1.1 billion in the 2013 impact analysis. A cost differentiated by Member State was not given, despite repeated demands, including from us. The new Commission proposal will be accompanied by a new cost picture. It is waiting to see if this will give us more insight into the costs for the country. As far as the returns mentioned are concerned, this system is purely financial, above all one major cost. I don't see a lot of financial returns from that. However, a reinforced border control will have a positive impact on our security. The JHA Council has therefore decided that the Schengen Borders Code will be reviewed in order to also subject EU citizens to a thorough check on entry and exit. This proposal is currently under negotiation in the Council. I would also like to point out that the adaptation of the border code and the smart borders are not the only initiatives we are working on. There is also PNR, for example, and we are also actively working on the extension of the automatic gates, the e-gates, of Brussels National Airport. Until last week, there were 6. This number will be gradually increased to 24 by March of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic316x.u95	Minister, I think it is very important that the smart borders package or something similar is used as good security. I just want to give you another anecdote. I was in China last month, and on a domestic flight from Beijing to a smaller city, everything is smaller than Beijing, I had a much more thorough check than when entering the European Union. So there is still a lot of work to be done, including those places that are already most secure, namely airports.
