ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u1	Minister, I welcome you to this committee. I do not know whether you will make a new policy statement in plenary or in this committee. My words are courteous and full of hope because you know the matter well and you are a very constructive man. I confess that I didn't have the same comments at the time of Mrs. Galant, even though I only dealt with factual matters. I told Mrs. Galant three things. The first was that, according to her, nothing had been done well before her appointment. The second is that it was all the fault of the socialists. The third is that we were going to see what we were going to see. I had an appointment in 2019 to take stock, but we didn't wait until 2019. I do not address these three points and you can count on us to develop as constructive a policy as possible. As a Socialist Group, we will point the finger where we do not agree, where we believe that this is not going in the right direction. For the rest, you will find in my remarks moderation, courtesy and a frank and sincere welcome. My question is a few weeks ago, but it is not our fault that we have not been able to meet since then. Minister, Jo Cornu has made the assumption that the missions of the Securail agents are expanding. He also expressed his wish to see these armed agents. The arguments put forward by the SNCB CEO are simple: following the failed Thalys Amsterdam-Paris attack as well as the Paris attacks, an in-depth analysis of the security measures would have shown their ineffectiveness. One solution would be to allow Securail agents to be armed in order to carry out identity checks, searches or the search for explosives. The idea would therefore be to resume a series of tasks currently assigned to the railway police. Minister, of course, we are being challenged by these demands, which could open the door to many abuses. Should we remind ourselves that the carrying of the weapon should be the exclusive responsibility of the police forces. It is also quite paradoxical to hear the SNCB CEO say that safety on the rail would be ineffective even though he pleads for the One Man Car and therefore the suppression of the human presence on a large number of trains! Jo Cornu's comments also prompted the SLFP to advocate for the integration of Securail officers into the railway police. Mr Minister, do you think that safety measures are ineffective on the Belgian rail? If so, what are the avenues you are considering to address them? What is your position on Jo Cornu's proposals? Do you consider it necessary to arm the agents of Securail? Have you considered the integration of Securail into the railway police?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for your comments. Those who have known me in this assembly and elsewhere know that I am a pragmatic person. Everyone in their role has a number of thoughts and actions to take. In any case, I will be able to respond to all your requests, to carry out and participate in various works, but above all to improve the daily lives of our citizens as far as possible in terms of their mobility. This policy is shared, always with great cordiality between us, even if our political options are different. The past is the past. We'll probably talk about it from time to time. But what matters is, above all, the present and what we can each build in our spheres of responsibility, in the days and months to come. As I said when I took on these responsibilities, there is an emergency. It is the task of re-opening the Brussels airport quickly. This concerns the entire government. The imperative is also to take all necessary security measures. That being said, there are a lot of files waiting for us in this department. You know them, so there is no need to list them. You welcome me here in your assembly and I greet you all. Those who have known me for a long time - I see some here - know how discreet I am. I try first, before I speak, to have an action to implement. I hate hollow messages. What matters to me is to be in the action and in the explanation of the decisions taken. Mr Devin, as far as your question is concerned, before I answer, I would like to make it clear that the SNCB and I are sorry that the press has revealed the content of a confidential letter. This letter followed a meeting between Mr Cornu, my cabinet and that of the Interior on railway safety. Contrary to what has been said, these are not proactive requests from SNCB, but, at our request, the SNCB provided us with a number of possible new avenues, including the one you mentioned. These leads are still under examination. As regards the rapprochement between Securail and the railway police, this reflection initiated by the Minister of the Interior must also be carried out within the government. As a reminder, we did not wait to strengthen rail safety. In this regard, the implementing order for Articles 13, 24 and 25 of the Law of 1 July 2011 on the safety and protection of Belgian and European critical infrastructures for the transport sector, the rail transport sub-sector, is now published. It was developed in consultation with the Interior FPS Crisis Centre, by Infrabel and SNCB. It requires any railway infrastructure operator designated as critical, national or European, to draw up a safety plan. The decree on the revision of the Federal Committee for the Safety of Rail Transport, which becomes the National Authority for the Safety of Rail Transport, has also been published. In particular, this Order provides for the inclusion of the OCAM in the Committee of Experts. The first meetings are already planned with all relevant departments. In addition, a budget of several million euros is being approved for 1,000 additional cameras within Infrabel and SNCB. Many more operational measures have also been taken at the level of Securail since the attacks in Thalys. These include enhanced collaboration with the railway police, the establishment of a single railway security/police command post during major events, the strengthening of patrols in the TGVs and the strengthening of international cooperation between France, Germany and the Netherlands. A reflection was also carried out by Securail and the railway police in order to optimize their collaboration. The results of this reflection are currently being studied in my office and in that of my colleague the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u3	Minister, I would like to thank you and share your remarks as an introduction. I would like to know whether you have set yourself a deadline for concluding the current exchanges with Securail and the Ministry of the Interior. Are you going to make a statement to take stock of your overall mobility policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u4	Of course. Each minister who settles makes a declaration within six weeks of their installation. We will have to work with the chairman of the committee when we can organise this according to the timetable. This will have to take place during a week when we have work together, before the end of May. As far as your other question is concerned, we have not yet set a deadline because we have to consult with all the players: Justice, Internal Affairs, Securail, the railway police.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u5	Minister, count on us for a reminder in case of possible oblivion. We want you to be able to enter your new function under the best possible conditions. I have previously lived in a conflict situation; I realize myself better in a constructive state of mind. Thank you for your answer. Of course, we will all be present for your general policy statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u6	Mr Hellings, I propose to wait for Mrs Lalieux for the attached questions on the airport.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u7	Minister, in Belgium, driving licences are a document and a tool used cross-cuttingly between different FPS and local and federal police services. Data on driving licences are disseminated between these departments and departments at different levels of authority. This leads to a lack of homogeneity in the method of collecting, recording and classifying these data. In particular, it appears that this lack of homogenisation leads to recurring problems with the car-bank of driving licences. Officers carrying out field checks and wishing to verify information relating to a driving licence are not able to have access to restrictions recorded in the Department of Internal Affairs (medical restrictions, restrictions after revocation, restrictions on certain types of vehicles, restrictions on authorised driving times, etc.).). In fact, the part of the database to which they have access in real time does not contain all the information relating to driving licences or penalties under way for certain drivers, which also leads to the ineffectiveness of controls. Should not the standardization of tools between the different SPFs be a top priority in order to avoid any loss of information and increase efficiency while reducing the waste of time? The introduction of a single computer tool seems inevitable and indispensable. Can you tell us where we are about this? In general, it seems that greater collaboration between all levels of government would allow many problems to be anticipated on a daily basis by the police officers or the administrations concerned. Is there a request from these administrations to improve the applicability of the legal provisions? What is the strategy being studied today to improve the collection, classification and effective exchange of driver's licence information?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u8	Madam President, I would like to join Mr Foret's questions on the database on driving licences. At the moment, the police still cannot check in real time whether or not a driver has a valid driving licence. In the end, that must be the goal. For example, if a driver has received a temporary driving ban of several hours after the determination of driving under the influence, it is currently not registered. Even if the driver has been denied the right to drive, but does not bring in his driving licence or is late, the police cannot see it today. It is therefore very important to finalise the roll-out of the licence database, the Mercury database, so that real-time information is available to police forces. Minister, what is the state of play regarding the timing and operationalisation of the database? You are not only responsible for this, of course, but as a Minister for Mobility it is important to join the cart. Will immediate withdrawals as provided for in Chapter 8 of the Road Traffic Act be included in that database? Will the temporary driving bans of a few hours after the determination of driving under the influence of drugs as laid down in Chapter 9 and 9bis of the Road Traffic Act be included in the database in real time? If the answer to both questions is negative, why isn't that happening?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u9	Mr Minister, I was not here because I was in another committee, but I obviously wanted to welcome you to this committee and to be very successful in all the work. You know this commission very well and you know that it is intense, with hot topics but very important for society and for the challenges of tomorrow's mobility. I will immediately thank the minister for having decided to keep Mrs Galant's pace, that is to say, to come every two weeks to answer the questions - not all ministers in this government - even if we will have a discussion on the questions. Welcome to this commission! I think the work will be intense. I give you the floor immediately to respond to our two colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Mr.Foret and Mr.Van den Bergh, the exchange of data already exists since the foundation of the car-bank of driving licences by the law of 14 April 2011. This exchange is currently operational with regard to data from the National Register, the results of reviews from the GOCA and the data concerning the driving licence itself. The aim of the Mercurius project is the electronic exchange of data from the judiciary and the police for the revocation of the right to drive, the immediate withdrawal and the temporary prohibition of driving. The data relating to the lapse of the right to direct belong to the jurisdiction of the FPS Justice. At present, no data is transmitted electronically by the Justice Department to the Crossroads Bank. The Mercurius project aims at this electronic exchange. At present, the analysis phase is almost complete. The technical working groups will soon be able to start. Once these IT developments are completed, a single consultation will allow the current status of a driving licence to be requested. The planned date for the launch of the Mercury project is estimated at the end of 2016. For the time being, the Mobility FPS has already made available an Internet service to request in real time all data concerning the driving licence (category, validity, limitation, for example for medical reasons). The driver's license bank already contains all the data concerning the driver's licence. After the establishment of links with the judiciary and the police, the current status of a driver's licence may, by simple application and in real time, be requested by all interested parties, the control services, the communal administration and the justice system. With regard to Mr Van den Bergh's question, the immediate withdrawal, as provided for in Chapter 8, and also the temporary driving ban following the determination of alcohol and drugs driving, as provided for in Chapters 9 and 9a of the Road Traffic Act, will be included in the database in real time. With regard to Mrs Dumery's question on driving licences, I can answer the following. A data collection allowing the holder of a Belgian driving licence, indicated with exemption from the theoretical and practical examination, and the holder of a recognised foreign driving licence from other holders of a Belgian driving licence, is, in my opinion, not one of the legally foreseen purposes of the Cross Point Bank of the driving licences, as provided for in Article 6 (1) of the Law of 14 April 2011 laying down various provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u11	Thank you, Minister. I have no doubt that you will weigh all your pragmatism to ensure that the improvement and effectiveness of, in particular, the consultation of databases between them becomes a reality for field officers. We will have the opportunity to see the evolution of things. It is well known that this issue is not obvious, because it is cross-cutting and involves many services and different levels of authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u12	Madam President, I agree with Mr Foret. I thank the Minister for his answers. I think it is very important to achieve the objective of having operational real-time databases by the end of 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u13	Madam President, I would like to stress the constructive nature of the new minister. Previously, we could ask questions that we did not have an answer to. Now, the minister answers questions that we haven't even had time to ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u14	It's a good way to avoid questions. The floor is Mr. Hellings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u15	Madam Chair, in turn, to welcome the new minister, whom I know well. I know how serious he is and how competent he is. This is reassuring for Ecolo on the extremely hot issues that the minister will have to deal with. I also wanted to stress its extremely user-friendly nature, which will probably help in resolving the issues that it has on the table for the coming months. The Vif/L'Express revealed that your predecessor had instructed Belgocontrol to introduce a new approach procedure for runway 07L landings. This new procedure, known as RNP (for Required Navigation Performance – satellite) would replace the current VOR approach (VHF Omnidirectional Range), i.e. by means of visual beacons. This procedure will therefore increase safety. The work which will be carried out this summer on runways 01-19 and which will make them unavailable serves as a pretext for the implementation of this procedure. It should therefore logically be temporary and published in the form of NOTAM. However, it appears that it will not be limited to the duration of the work. It appears that this new procedure, now cast in marble, is tailor-made for Brussels Airport. Indeed, it will make it possible to generalise the parallel use of the runways and thus increase the commercial capacity of the airport! You are aware that the Brussels-Capital Region has always opposed the placement of a ground guidance system (ILS) on track 07. The current VOR approach makes it possible to limit the use of runways 07 for landings. With the latest RNP technology, this lock will jump. This is totally contrary to the interests of the northern residents of Brussels and the Flemish communes on its immediate periphery. Belgocontrol thus moves nuisances from the Oostrand to the Noordrand and the municipalities of the centre of Brussels. Thus, a problem is moving and nothing is settled structurally. Minister, do you confirm that Ms. Galant, prior to her departure under the conditions we know, sent instructions to Belgocontrol to set up the RPN procedure for landings on runway 07L? If so, when? Will it be subject to an environmental impact assessment, in accordance with the order of the Brussels Court of First Instance of 31 July 2014, the famous moratorium? Will the use of this procedure be temporary (limited to the duration of work on runways 01-19)? Is the instruction an Aeronautical Information Package (AIP) "SUP" or an AIP "AMDT"? The AIP SUP is temporary, while the AIP AMDT is permanent. Beyond these ad hoc measures, when do you plan to present to us the general plan promised for many months by your predecessor?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u16	Minister, I will not repeat what my colleague said, nor what was written on the pages of the Vif. With this new intensively used road, it is the most populated communes in Brussels that are flying over. If this information is confirmed, we should ensure that this "Galant Road", as the Brussels say, does not become a "Belot Road". Did your predecessor agree to an increased use of Runway 07L for landings? As my colleague has pointed out, we do not want a new guidance system. If not, can you assure us that there will be no increase in landings via this 07L runway? Is it correct that the Air Transport Branch (DGTA) experts have informed Ms. Galant that this new trajectory falls under the 2006 Act, which provides for a public investigation and impact study for the intensive use of this runway? Have you consulted with the Brussels-Capital Region and local associations on this track? Of course, these questions were not directly addressed to you, minister, but the cabinet being present, it will be able to answer us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the instruction for RNP or PBN approach procedures on Runway 07 was given on 15 March 2016 as part of major renovation work at Brussels airport on Runway 01. This work is carried out with a frequency of 15 years: 5 years for the coating of wear layer, 15 years when it is in depth. The RNP approach procedures on Runway 07L at Brussels airport will be applied during the period of work and renovation of Runway 01-19. With regard to these approach procedures, this is not a new road, but the application of a new technology, on an already existing landing axis. SRA 07L is already used. The procedures do not fall within the scope of the 2006 Act. DGTA is also of the opinion that there is no need for an environmental impact assessment, nor for extensive consultation given the temporary nature of the situation. All this must be considered, of course, in the context of drawing up the Brussels overflight plan and the various episodes of the past. I said I wouldn't talk too much about the past. But to every minister, there was a road. You're saying there's the "Bellot" road. I can remind you of others!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u18	No, there's no "Bellot" road yet, minister, don't worry! There shouldn't be one!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u19	Maybe there won't be any. I don't know. But in any case, it is the provisional nature of the work which, in no way, finds a political justification. With regard to the overflight plan, it is simply a technical rule, knowing that the technology in question makes it much better to guide the aircraft. It's on runway 25R.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u20	Minister, thank you for that answer. I did remember the word you used. It is a road used during the construction period. I hear it's temporary. As I took you short, I will rest with you the precise question of whether it was an AIP SUP or an AMDT AIP. A PIA is temporary and therefore has a fixed duration. I hope that it is this type of instruction that the minister gave at the time in Belgocontrol and not an AMDT IPA, which would mean that the road exists and that for ever. The challenge is, of course, that the technology will make it possible to intensify the use of a track which, today, because of the absence of this technology, is not used. But the consequence is that if we step up the use of this track, 300 000 Brussels residents in the north of Brussels are likely to be impacted. It is therefore a question of being able to use this track temporarily and not permanently, which could cause public health problems and citizen mobilizations that you absolutely need to do in this case. It is a question of finding structural solutions for everyone. We don't move trash, we recycle it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u21	Minister, I am well aware of the provisional nature of the measure. You're talking about work lasting 5 to 15 years. It's a long time. I would therefore also like to know the planning of the works to know how often this runway will be used for landing. I will put a written question to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u22	Mrs Lalieux, I don't think you understand me well. I inquired about the work and it was told that every five years the runway wear layer had to be renewed; it was less long. In this case, it is a 15-year-old interview, I was told. Almost all wear layers must be removed and replaced. In principle, the work lasts one summer, two months and a few days depending on the weather conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u23	Two months, actually. There is therefore still this deadline for June set by the European Directive. The Mobility FPS should conduct an accurate legal analysis to determine whether or not the situation will be frozen if you do not bring in a flight procedures bill before this deadline. Different scenarios are circulating. It is time to hear the government's opinion – since you will not get the opportunity to have a bill by June (first and second readings and consultation with the Regions) – on whether or not this directive will block the situation. It is very important for this Parliament to know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u24	Mrs Lalieux, a small element of correction, because I want to be exact about the periodicity of the interviews: the big in-depth interview is after 30 years, not 15 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u25	May I ask you to send all the members of the committee the legal analysis that the Mobility FPS could carry out regarding the application of the European directive which sets the deadline for June 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u26	Questions Nos 10686, 10689 and 10918 by Mr Stefaan Van Hecke are transformed into written questions. Questions Nos 10695 and 10697 by Caroline Cassart-Mailleux fall.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u27	Madam President, Minister, I welcome you. I am pleased that you have come from a rural area. I think we have similar concerns. I hope that we can work well and ensure that rural areas are not overly penalized. This question was introduced before you took office. I do not know if you were able to read the letter sent to your predecessor by the Union des Villes et Communes de Wallonie (UVCW). I quote: "It seems to us that railway operators have large, sometimes unused, land reserves, especially in the vicinity of railway stations and in urban centres or agglomerations. These land reserves, with a view to the densification of agglomerated areas and the proper development of railway and urban areas, should be able to be mobilised actively and rapidly. We therefore call on the federal government and railway companies to prepare an inventory of unused land so that it can determine its future, in consultation with local authorities, without endangering railway operations or future developments in rail. Mechanisms for the free transfer or implementation of a right of preemption should be envisaged or, at the very least, a mechanism for regulating land prices should be constructed, in order to ensure that land mobilisations can be carried out by the municipalities under acceptable conditions." Minister, have you responded to this UVCW mail? If so, what were the elements of your answer? Are you going to establish an inventory of unused land? Will you consult with local authorities or ask the SNCB group to do so, in order to determine the fate of these land reserves as requested by the UVCW? Are free transfer mechanisms or the implementation of a right of preemption envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u28	Madam President, dear colleague, first of all I would like to thank you for your welcome message. However, following receipt of the mail, SNCB contacted the UVCW for a meeting to hear its priorities for the future, to detail the content of its requests and expectations. The aim is to have a comprehensive approach to its vision vis-à-vis the municipalities in particular. To date, however, the meeting has not yet taken place. In general, SNCB regularly sells a series of properties that no longer serve its current and future needs. These goods are offered for sale subject to the principle of good administration (advertisement, fairness, transparency). Infrabel, on the other hand, does not have any land that can be considered useless. Infrabel lands that do not appear to be used often perform a security function. Here I am thinking in particular of areas of clearance, evacuation, intervention, storage areas for railway operations or which are strategic in nature for the possible future development of the railway network. SNCB is part of a dynamic and concerted development policy with local, provincial, regional and federal authorities. In many cases, SNCB, together with the various public actors, has drawn up plans for the urbanization of its station sites, as has been the case for Namur, Leuven, Charleroi, etc. Large cities are often involved here. On the basis of these plans, local potential and constraints, the value of the different assets is estimated. There's never a free transfer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u29	Minister, thank you for your precise answer. I assume that information will be provided by the UVCW on the results of its meeting with SNCB. If that is not the case, I will certainly come back to you to ask you about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u30	The government has recalled this and the Prime Minister himself has done so several times, whether in plenary or in committee, the RER – Walloon in this case – is a priority for this government, and in particular its four-tracking, which would be well achieved as foreseen in the convention. Your predecessor also told us that we want to quickly table a complete technical and financial file on the government table. We hoped that a file would be handed over to the government as part of the budgetary adjustment - since it was at that time that money had to be requested - and that it would be relayed to Parliament. We saw nothing coming during this budgetary adjustment. On the other hand, the construction sites remain completely at a standstill! Nothing moves, nothing moves, and it's clearly not just a permit issue. It's time to take this file with your arm-to-body. For your information, Minister, I had made a constructive proposal by the majority to set up a bimonthly monitoring of the progress of work and the evolution of the RER fund. This was not a special committee, it would have taken place here in the Infrastructure Committee, every two months, with the SNCB RER Cell, lnfrabel and the Mobility SPF, in order to debrief the progress of the RER both in terms of work and in terms of finance, since it is a priority issue for this Parliament as a whole. This motion has been rejected by the majority, but the minister can still decide to implement it. Minister, when are you going to present to the government and parliamentarians the funding package and schedule for the work of the RSP? Will you propose on your own initiative the setting up of this bimonthly monitoring, in order to be transparent on this fundamental issue which is of interest to many citizens, commuters, whether they are Walloon, Brussels or Flemish?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u31	Madam Chair, the full finalization of the RSP through its four-track implementation is a government priority, as you mentioned in your question. As has been widely discussed in this committee, the balance of the RER fund's resources is not sufficient to finalize this four-track approach. This situation has been known for years, especially to my predecessors. The reasons have already been discussed. Mainly, the lack of resources is the result of delays in permits granted, numerous recourses, inflation of construction prices and work that had not been budgeted in response to local requirements, often relayed by the municipalities, in the context of the issuance of permits. The RER fund is expected to be fully exhausted in 2019, as announced in the documents accompanying the 2013-2025 PPI. In order to sustain the source of funding for this work and on the basis of the latest site visits, my firm is carrying out a detailed survey of all the work to be carried out and is examining all possible avenues for Belgian and European funding. I will present a comprehensive solution in the coming weeks to the Council of Ministers. This solution will be integrated into the next multi-year investment plan. My firm has meetings, very regularly, with teams from SNCB, Infrabel and TUC RAIL in this case. As soon as the Council of Ministers has given its approval, I will present the full schedule to Parliament, as has been discussed in our committee. That, Madam President, is what I could convey to date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, the history of the case is clear and well known. In addition, the Court of Auditors will work on this matter. We already had elements in the Court of Auditors' previous report on SNCB's public service mission. But it is indeed important to move from history to action on the ground. A precise state of affairs is good, but I am surprised to learn that a firm will have to draw up a state of affairs. It seems to me that a RER cell has been set up thanks to the sixth reform of the State and that technicians are on the ground. It is the firm that has to make a precise statement of the situation, according to what I have heard. I think technicians are enough, but if the offices help, it's so much better! As for the European tracks, the call for European projects has been finalised, as the government has returned a series of projects. I really hope that in the coming weeks and in any case before the summer, you will come with specific projects and that we will not wait for the finalisation of the debate on the IPR in order to complete the RER plan. Otherwise, I fear that this project will take many months to complete. I hope that the RSP will, at some point, be out of the IPP to form, as was the case before, the RSP fund with specific investments and not integrated into a major IPP negotiation but into a RSP negotiation only, because it is a priority for this government. Fight for this and we will support you!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u33	Madam President, Minister, a division of the Mobility FPS, ATB-Sûreté, is the only department that deals with civil aviation security at the federal level with the National Security Agency, which, for its part, is responsible for background checks to obtain accreditation patches at the airport. It is in this capacity that DGTA-Sûreté, over which you are now responsible, is designated as the competent authority vis-à-vis Belgium's foreign security partners. We are thinking of the International Civil Aviation Organisation, the European Civil Aviation Conference, but above all, of course, the European Commission, which regularly reports on the application by Member States of the 2008 European Airport Security Regulation, a report which has made a lot of noise in these walls, you remember. In the political debate that led to your predecessor's resignation, it became clear that, despite a security and geopolitical context, which is extremely difficult, this division of your administration was insufficiently staffed, to the extent that it is unable to carry out the number of inspections required by the 2008 European Regulation I have just mentioned. The working conditions of the same staff appear to be legally compromising the effectiveness of their work. Minister, my questions are as follows. First, can you tell me how many inspectors there are today in DGTA-Safety? How many commitments do you think you can make in the near future? Secondly, do you intend to take legislative measures to strengthen the capacity of these inspectors to assert their coercive powers, thus of criminal capacity? Finally, does DGTA-Sûreté have an increasingly frequented airport in Charleroi? If so, how long? If not, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u34	Madam President, Minister, I too would like to welcome you back to this house, perhaps a little bit of confidence for you. Mr Minister, my questions are in line with those of Mr Hellings. Since the privatisation of Brussels Airport Company in 2004, there is still considerable uncertainty on the ground as to the status and operation of the airport inspectors. For a number of years, the common trade union front of the ACLVB and the ACOD took action. They have repeatedly pointed out that there is a problem with the operation and powers of the people of DGLV. They have never really received a certain response. Their criticism is mainly that the commercial interests of Brussels Airport Company seem to interfere with the performance of the tasks and that the security tasks are subordinate to those commercial interests. During the Christmas agreement of 22 December 2015, the government announced a new security corps, as part of the closure of the terror cell in Verviers. Apparently, people would be posted from Brussels Airport Company to a new security force. It was unclear where those involved would come from and how many people they would be talking about. My specific questions are as follows. How many security inspectors do DGLV currently count? What statute do the 35 to 40 security inspectors have that would have been adopted to go to the security force? Is that enough? Where do they come from and where do they go? What statute do they have? What is the date of their entry into service? The unions have already written several letters to your predecessor and to the entire government to clarify the interpretation of the legislation and their statute. What initiatives will you take? What vision do you have with regard to the implementation of these safety tasks?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u35	Mr Hellings and Mr Geerts, I think the safety and security aspect is addressed in two or three issues. In order to avoid repetition, I will clarify a number of things on this issue and I will address another aspect on the following issues, including that of Mr. Maingain. Perhaps it would have been useful to group them together. Currently, the DGTA Security Service employs six inspectors out of a total of nine employees. An additional inspector is provided for in the Personnel Plan 2015 and will be recruited in 2016. DGTA and its inspectors are responsible for aviation security control and surveillance in the "airside" area and not in the public area. In my reply to Mr. Maingain, I will clarify the difference between security and safety. For example, they are responsible for monitoring the application of security measures in the field of civil aviation. They are also responsible for the approval of authorized on-board suppliers, authorized agents and known shippers. With regard to areas of security attention, the DGTA focuses on the following aspects. I would remind you that this is still the airside area, i.e. the runway side. There's a fence. It's waterproof except for places of control of people, luggage etc. The DGTA is therefore responsible for the following aspects: airport security which includes security aspects in the context of an airport project, perimeter and arrangements, airside access control for persons (badges) and vehicles (passes), inspections, screening of passengers, personnel, vehicles, carry-on baggage, baggage in the hold, e.g. PBR, screening at Connector and bandage make-up area. The second major aspect of security is the safety of aircraft: the search of aircraft prior to departure and the protection of aircraft against unauthorized access, the closing of doors, the removal of ladders, controls of unknowns when aircraft are parked. Thirdly, security of cargo, cargo and mail. Fourthly, the security of flight supplies, such as duty-free and catering, and airport supplies, such as tax-free shops and vending machines after screening in the Brussels Airport connector. Fifth, on security measures during flight training of pilots and crew, to prevent unlawful acts in flight, and the ban on carrying weapons on board. Sixthly, recruitment and training of personnel investigating security and carrying out access checks or other security controls. 7. Safety equipment, control of the implementation of certified equipment, e.g. verification of the installation of X-ray equipment, metal detector portals and explosives detector dogs. These tasks are regulated by European regulations. The framework is not purely Belgian, but European, and therefore international. Regulations Nos. 300/2008 and 185/2010 are translated into Belgian legislation by the Act of 27 June 1937 and the Royal Decree of 3 May 1991. A royal decree extending the mandate of these inspectors was sent to the Regions for advice before its forthcoming publication. DGLV is also the competent authority for aviation security and monitors the following aspects. The operation of Brussels National Airport, the airport service and the environment service, the development of airports and aerodromes - when they are designed, of course - Belgocontrol and air traffic controller licences, air services and the Belgian Supervisory Authority for Air Navigation Services, flight routes, air space service, airlines, operations service, pilot licences and their medical and air traffic controller skills, maintenance of aircraft for the technical service. Other inspectors and members of the DGTA are working on aviation safety, but I am not going to dwell on their skills, as they are not the subject of your question. Another confusion is possible. There are fifty-seven more than ten LAC staff inspectors responsible for the supervision of guarding agents - such as those of G4S - and the latter are chief inspectors. These are therefore two distinct categories of inspectors. The status of these people, made hybrid after the reform of the police in 2001, is currently being considered in collaboration with my colleague from the Interior, but also in regular union consultations. These discussions are also part of the desire to establish a supervisory and protective branch within the federal police. Their new status could lead these inspectors to join either the DGTA or the federal police. They could also be maintained at LAC. These discussions are still ongoing. I'll be sure to close this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u36	Minister, you did not reply to me about the presence of a DGTA room in Charleroi.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u37	Mr Hellings, I have no information on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u38	Mr. Minister will answer you later, Mr. Hellings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u39	You'll ask me a question, if you want to.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u40	Just on Charleroi!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u41	Mr Minister, I understood, long before the Galant case broke out, that there was a difference between safety and security. The purpose of your supervision of the DGTA is to ensure that individuals and vehicles do not pose a hazard in the area after the control. The inspectors of this service shall make every effort to avoid any risk in this area. I am fully aware of that. In the 2015 report of the European Commission, which was revealed, it is stated that out of a dozen items analysed, Belgium does not comply with the standards in nine cases and has severe deficiencies in five cases. You are announcing today that six inspectors are responsible for implementing this regulation. All right. An additional officer was hired. I hope that DGTA is not understaffed, so that, in the next report by the European Commission, Belgium is finally in line. This is obviously necessary for our country's reputation, but above all for safety – and I said safety – as soon as a passenger crosses the controlled party. At present, this is not the case. Therefore, every effort will be made to ensure that this is done, including in terms of staff engagement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u42	Minister, I must admit that when I raised my question, I often had to look at the difference between security and security on the one hand and sûreté on the other. I have tried to make that distinction, because that is not evident in the context of the division of powers. I'm just a little hungry. One of the fundamental criticisms I have heard from people in the workplace is that the security staff, so those responsible for the sûreté, would not be sufficiently independent. After all, from Brussels Airport Company, which partially pays the bets of the security staff, a number of checks cannot take place because of commercial interests. You speak of the mise and oeuvre and such. Well, on the ground, it appears that there are problems with this, in the sense that reports are being drawn up, but that they are not being checked, let alone complied with, because of commercial interests. Let me mention a second element. In the first agreement, the government decided to recruit 35 to 40 people for security, la sécurité. I cannot tell from your answer whether this has already been achieved on the ground. A third element, finally. For example, you spoke of 57 G4S agents, a private security company. I assume those agents are working under the statute of the Tobback Act on Security Agents. It is unclear to me exactly what powers these agents have. I will put a supplementary question on this because it is quite technical.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u43	A supplementary question will be asked by our colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u44	Minister, this question was intended for your predecessor, but I have no doubt that you will be very interested in answering it because you are particularly familiar with the problem of rural life. At the beginning of March, the FEB provided your predecessor, as well as the Ministers-Presidents of the Regions and party presidents, with a study that included various mobility proposals. Among these proposals, I note a large number of intelligent proposals which make it possible to rethink mobility in a modern way: to allow night deliveries for shops in certain urban centres, to increase the flexibility of working hours, to promote teleworking, to increase the number of parking spaces for deterrence, to allow for a more efficient use of SNCB better coordinated with other means of transport, etc. On the other hand, another measure suggested by the FEB seems unacceptable to me: the replacement of the taxes for putting into circulation (to purchase) and circulation (annual tax) by a variable kilometric tax according to different criteria such as the polluting character, the time and the place of circulation or the type of road. The adoption of this measure would be a real disaster for motorists in rural areas who are forced to travel many kilometres every day to get to work or to gain access to facilities such as shops, administrations, railway stations, etc., far from their homes. Your predecessor had stated in Le Soir that FEB's observation was in many respects his own. What is your view of this study? Which of these measures do you consider for future implementation? What particular opinion do you give on the idea of this tax per kilometre? The rural world has been particularly punished in recent years: abolition of local services (garments, posts), increased excise duties on fuels, diesel. The kilometric tax would be the coup de grace for rural workers and residents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u45	By way of introduction, I would like to make it clear that sustainable mobility is one of our priorities, a priority that we all need to assign to ourselves. I would also like to point out that the theme of mobility and transport is at all levels of power. The federal level is therefore not competent for all the measures proposed by the FEB. There is also a need to establish a framework for the analysis and distribution of competences in this area. Nevertheless, I call for consultation and a coherent policy between the different levels. I agree with the FEB on the need for an integrated vision of mobility through the introduction of sustainable and efficient mobility. I must note, however, that in view of the distribution of competences between the different levels of power, but also of the distribution of competences within the same level of power (mobility, economy, finance, employment, social consultation), many measures do not fall entirely or partly within my departments. However, some of the FEB's proposals are or have already been studied by my administration. This is the case with the idea of simplifying and harmonizing regulations so as to allow the employee to choose in a flexible manner the means of transportation he or she uses, based on a specific budget. The same applies to the promotion of alternative modes of transport. In the near future, Belgium should have a suitable legal framework, taking into account technological developments in high-speed electric bicycles. I will also plead with my Finance colleague to strengthen tax measures to promote the use of electric bicycles and bicycles. I also intend to continue to set up an intermodality platform which should enable regional and federal authorities to work with regional transport companies and railways to establish the necessary intermodality to promote chain mobility, by better aligning the various means of transport, and in particular the passages as established in Brussels. The idea is to have a single transport ticket for the entire transport chain. Rail transport plays a central role in mobility. Management contracts, the transport plan and the investment plan are tools for which greater efficiency is sought. The possible introduction of a so-called smart tax for all users on certain roads and motorways, depending on the location and time slot, falls within the competence of the Regions. The countries that have set up it aim to direct road users to other modes of transport for environmental reasons (local air pollution, climate, noise, congestion). This action should primarily aim at objectives in a concerted manner between the Regions, taking into account the sharing of competences. In Germany and England, for example, where smart road taxes exist, they can be applied for access to the heart of cities such as Berlin or London. In any case, this should in my view be the subject of extensive studies to take account of the impacts, constraints and opportunities for the transfer of the road world to rail transport or to buses, knowing that alternatives are little or no present in rural areas and therefore inconceivable in these territories.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u46	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer. I take note of all the measures put in place and which should be stepped up to allow for a more sustainable mobility policy. As far as the so-called smart tax is concerned, we see what this gives for the moment in the Walloon Region with the tax per kilometre for trucks. I take note that you feel that in rural areas, since there is no alternative at the moment, this formula seems difficult to put in place. I have no doubt that you will be keen to ensure that, in the event of consultation, such a tax is not included, which is particularly problematic for rural areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u47	Minister, this is a happy reunion. I remember you as chairman of this committee. Madam President, Minister, my question concerns the registration of new vehicles manufactured abroad, for example in a foreign branch of a Belgian company, and are offered in our country for final inspection in order to be finally delivered. There's a problem with those vehicles. The Royal Decree of 20 July 2001 lays down a number of conditions for the registration of new vehicles. Article 1.8 provides, inter alia, that a new vehicle is to be defined as "a vehicle whose year of manufacture is no older than two years, a vehicle which has no more than 300 km on the counter and a vehicle which has not yet been registered in Belgium or elsewhere'. The problem is not so much about passenger cars, which can easily be transported through special semi-trailers without having to drive autonomously, but about buses and cars, for example. These cannot be transported on a semi-trailers, but must enter the country themselves. For such vehicles, the second condition is often not met. The distance is often longer than 300 km. Moreover, they do not meet the third condition, namely that they are not registered. Such vehicles must have a transit plate, a temporary registration. This problem is virtually alone in this country. In France, for example, there is no definition for new vehicles. In Luxembourg there can be up to 3 000 km on the counter. Do you know the problem, Minister? If so, are you considering an amendment to the Royal Decree of 20 July 2001 to remove such situations? If so, in what sense and what is the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u48	Madam President, in order for a vehicle to be considered new when registered in the Belgian Register, the provisions of Article 1.8 of the Royal Decree of 20 July 2001 concerning the registration of vehicles must be complied with. If a new vehicle was purchased in another European Member State, the transport to Belgium should be arranged for registration. This can be done by means of a specially designed transport vehicle or by means of a dealer number plate. In the first possibility, the vehicle shall be placed on the transport without registration plates, so that all the conditions of Article 1.8 above are met in order to re-register the vehicle. The second option allows the vehicle itself to drive to Belgium with merchant registration. The vehicle under merchant registration shall not be registered and may be considered new in the event of registration. However, given the relatively large distance that a new vehicle from another European country will have to travel if it is travelling autonomously to Belgium, I am indeed considering adapting the second aspect of Article 1.8 of the said KB for certain categories of vehicles. Such an adaptation to the rules on vehicle registration may be introduced at the earliest in the course of 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u49	Minister, your answer is positive because you acknowledge that there is a problem and are considering changing the second condition in the Royal Decree. I shall look again at your answer on the third condition, in particular the registration. I have been told that the third condition is also a problem. I continue to follow up on this issue and hope that the problem will soon be resolved, particularly for the bus and car sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u50	Mr Minister, my first series of questions concerns the incidents involving the air traffic controllers of Belgocontrol. Last year there was a breakdown on 27 May 2015. A number of elements have emerged in the legal proceedings against the Guild of Air Traffic Controllers. It was stated that our country has already escaped a possible air disaster on several occasions. A number of examples were given. Belgocontrol's reply was that these were technical incidents. Was it effective for minor technical incidents? What exactly were those incidents? What made the incidents according to Belgocontrol not a threat to air traffic? Belgocontrol itself reports that every incident, however small, is recorded. How many incidents were registered in 2013, 2014 and 2015 respectively? Is the severity of the incident monitored or measured? Is the clear the sky measured effectively? Finally, which body investigates the incidents? What recommendations are made on this matter? My second question series concerns the determination of the staff shortage in Belgocontrol. We have seen a number of times in recent times that no aircraft can take off or land, even at the regional airports of Charleroi and Liège, because an air traffic controller is ill or because of poor management planning. It is quite strange that an organisation such as Belgocontrol may or may not work because of the illness of one staff member. In this way we make a silly figure, both at home and abroad. This also has a very high economic cost. What is the current stock of air traffic controllers? What is needed to fulfil the tasks? How will the deficit be eliminated? Have budgetary provisions been made for this purpose? What is the budgetary impact? In the media we could read that following the incidents of late April 2016, the government would send out control doctors. Have any actual findings been made in this respect? In the media it has been stated that Belgian air traffic controllers working in Maastricht are still retired at the age of 55. Is that right? Does this mean that there is a discrepancy between the rules applied? Is it true that there is an outflow of staff from Belgocontrol to Maastricht?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u51	Minister, on Tuesday 12 and Wednesday 13 April, air traffic controllers, members of the controllers' guild, unannouncedly disqualified the contents of a social agreement which, in the long run, provides for lay-off from the age of 58. The press has reacted greatly to the timing of these actions and has sometimes referred to the privileges of Belgocontrol's staff. But little has been written about the current working conditions at Belgocontrol. And here are some questions that concern them. First, what are the current arrangements regarding the pension age of air traffic controllers and the rest of the staff, overtime, illness, working hours, at Belgocontrol? What are the exact consequences of budget cuts and the impact on working conditions? Are there currently enough air traffic controllers at Belgocontrol? What is the opinion of management, the union and the guild on this issue? Secondly, the spontaneous strike by air traffic controllers on 12 and 13 April provoked a lot of negative reactions, even from the Prime Minister, to the timing very close to the attacks in Zaventem. The strike is a reaction to the social agreement between management and the union. When did Belgocontrol's management put forward its proposal for an agreement to the CGSP union? When was the agreement approved by the same union?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u52	Madam President, in the preamble, I would like to say that Mr. Van Hees came to me after 11 o'clock. I answer that today only because there was a question about the same object. As much as I like to arrive on time, to be a legalist, I like that we respect procedures and order.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u53	You're right, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u54	Those who have known me in other functions know that this is the case. I answer that because the subject is related.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u55	If the questions had not been joined, Mr. Van Hees would have come back in two weeks on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u56	Minister, for talking to the secretariat, our staff sent the questions a little before 11 a.m. and you received them a little after 11 a.m. We have taken note of this and will now make sure to send it no later than 10:30 a.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u57	Colleagues, we know the agenda until July 21, 2016. You know that the minister comes every fortnight. So it is much easier for everyone not to send them at 11 o'clock or 11 o'clock minus one. For more complete answers, it is even better to send them a few days earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u58	In this case, since this is an attached issue, the subject had already been analysed. But when it comes to a new question, it can be a little annoying.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u59	Minister, I had already taken note of this. But, as you say again, I'll take a good note of it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the answer will be a little long because it is a topical issue that deserves some development. Air navigation services are based on complex technical systems that may have failures: 125 technical incidents were reported in 2013, 115 in 2014 and 171 in 2015. Three incidents were more specifically reported in the press and in the Assembly. The first incident concerns the electrical failure of the Steenokkerzeel control centre on 27 May 2015. Traffic had to be diverted and taken over by the military and control centres of neighbouring countries, with of course a reduction in traffic. A second incident concerns a failure of Belgocontrol's local data network on 18 December. It resulted in a reduction in the capacity of the control centre. Finally, on 2 April, a problem in the flight data processing software prevented the proper functioning of the control centre. Air traffic, which was at that time in the space managed by Belgocontrol, had to be diverted in a precautionary manner. The situation was restored after an hour. These three technical incidents were the subject of a thorough safety analysis, as required by international standards, which demonstrated that they had not jeopardized the safety of air traffic. The minimum separation distances between aircraft have always been respected. The incidents are systematically analysed to identify the causes and to take the necessary measures to prevent their recurrence. The Safety Management Unit of Belgocontrol investigates all incidents in collaboration with the formed and appointed researchers. The SMU operates independently of the operational management of Belgocontrol and reports to the national supervisory authority, BSAANS, and to the autonomous Cell of Aviation Accidents and Incidents of the FPS Mobility and Transport. The SMU consists of 9 members. Four more staff will be recruited this year. Finally, the AAIU, Air Accident Investigation Unit, will, in the event of serious occurrences within the framework of the relevant EU Regulation No. 996/2010, also conduct an independent study aimed at defining recommendations and preventing similar events in the future. The initial events are evaluated using the Eurocontrol risk analysis tool. Technical incidents are first examined through a combination of impact on security and continuity of service. In addition, the potential aspect is also taken into account. The BSAANS receives the results of the assessment and supervises the application of the procedure by Belgocontrol and Eurocontrol. However, that assessment only takes safety aspects into account. The procedure clear the sky is therefore not quoted. The removal of Clear the sky aircraft is a precautionary procedure for failure of a technical system or interruption of service. Air traffic control services have recently been interrupted due to a lack of personnel. I would like to make it clear that this was not the result of a strike but rather of a large number of ill controllers. This was communicated to me by Belgocontrol: the people who were unable to go to work were ill and had given a medical certificate. These interruptions cause significant inconvenience for both airports and airlines and passengers. This lack of staff is due to a combination of elements. On the one hand, the controllers assigned to the regional towers have been heavily solicited in recent weeks as a result of the attacks and the taking over of the stolen aircraft from Zaventem. On the other hand, several controllers were unavailable due to diseases and no volunteers could be found to replace them. In the event of the absence of a controller due to illness or otherwise, an appeal shall be made to the controllers available for a reminder in service on a voluntary basis with a financial bonus. This led to service interruptions at the regional air traffic control centre and at the Charleroi and Liège towers. In case of absence for illness, doctors are sent in accordance with the provisions in force at Belgocontrol. I am currently making every effort to ensure continuity of services. Non-core activities have been suspended in order to release operational resources. In the longer term, the implementation of the social agreement of 12 April should make it possible to increase the number of operational staff through the recruitment of 35 candidates in the next two years and the implementation of measures for the planning and mobility of staff. In fact, a dozen candidates have been hired and are undergoing training. A stand-by system should replace the replacement system on a voluntary basis. Mobility will be increased by the creation of a pool of controllers capable of working in different towers, but on condition that there is an amendment to the social agreement and ad hoc training. The versatility between two towers is not currently provided for in the social agreement. If it were to be implemented, it would require an amendment to the agreement. The evolution of the number of controllers required in the future will depend on technological developments and the implementation of more efficient working methods. The various measures of the social agreement will be implemented in consultation with the social partners in order to avoid any interruption of service. As far as the budgetary impact is concerned, the majority of Belgocontrol is financed by airspace users. The Federal State finances only part of Belgocontrol's services at airports. The social agreement of 12 April also deals with career ends. In this respect, according to the provisions in force, air traffic controllers are now required to be laid off from the first month following the month in which they reach the age of 55, for a period of five years. As a result of the two pension reforms, the minimum age for early retirement will be gradually increased to a minimum of 63 years and 42 years of career in 2019, and 60 years of service. A Memorandum of Understanding was concluded on 27 June 2014 to temporarily address the issue of persons laid off between January 2014 and December 2016. If my memory is good, it's about six people. This protocol provides that air traffic controllers whose retirement pension cannot be granted at 60 years of age shall be granted a period of pre-pension leave which stops when the air traffic controller meets the age and career requirements for taking up his early pension. In a particularly sensitive social context, Minister Jacqueline Galant had asked the managing director of Belgocontrol to reach an agreement between the social partners by 29 February 2016. The social agreement was finally approved on 12 April 2016 by the union CGSP-ACOD. The Maastricht Upper Area Control Centre (MUAC) faces similar personnel problems. The Eurocontrol administrative reform project foresees a gradual increase in the pension age of MUAC auditors from 55 to 57 years. This reform has yet to be endorsed by the 41 Eurocontrol Member States. We see few departures of air traffic controllers abroad or to Eurocontrol. As regards guaranteed services, discussions between management and trade unions started last year. They will continue this year. Several drafts have been prepared and discussed, but no agreement has yet been reached.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I do believe that one element should be further examined in the coming weeks. I have looked at the series in which the staff involved have to work. Other cases also show the number of consecutive days that people have to work sometimes give rise to more sick leave. At Belgacom they apparently work 12 days in a row, to be home for 2 days. In the Netherlands people work 5 days and they are 2 days at home, in Maastricht they work 6 days in a row, in France they work 42 hours, spread over 7 days, in Germany they work 6 days, in Luxembourg they work 7 days, in Switzerland they work 6 days, in Croatia they work 4 days, in Spain they work 6 days and in Ireland they work 5 days. In all these European countries, it appears that there is no legal basis for the employability of workers for 12 days. I can't prove it right now, because I didn't have time for that, but I hope you'll take this with you. I think 12 days in a row is a reason for the greater absenteeism than in the other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your fairly long answer to a series of questions. So there are too few controllers. Why have we come to such a situation? Secondly, this situation and the working conditions of the controllers are problematic at the social level, for the staff concerned and potentially cause safety problems. As for your clarification that it was not a strike but an absence for illness, I take note of your answer. But I would remind you that the Prime Minister had surfed the wave of a certain discontent among travellers to incriminate this staff. The question is whether this disease situation was not a reality in relation to too much pressured personnel. You recognize yourself that there are too few controllers. There are difficulties in finding others to replace those who are absent. Your answer to this question seems more appropriate to me than the Prime Minister's reaction in the media.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u63	Mr. Secretary, nice to meet you. In my turn, I wish you every success, perseverance and much more common sense in the management of this not so obvious portfolio. Madam President, Minister, my question concerns the investment cell responsible for preparing the new multi-annual investment plan. That cell's been working for a while. The analysis committee has already met about eight times on the sheets submitted for the investment projects. The strategic committee, on the other hand, has only met once, if I am well informed. A subsequent meeting would therefore cover the total investment envelopes available. I have five questions. Firstly, what is the state of play in the talks within the investment cell? Secondly, do you have any idea when the investment cell will end its work? Thirdly, will the preparation of the new multi-annual investment plan be delayed as a result of the ministerial change? Fourthly, has a date been set for a subsequent meeting of the Strategic Committee? In other words, when will the investment envelopes be discussed? Fifth, as you know, the reactivation of the railway line between Hasselt and Neerpelt, line 18, is a very important dossier for the Flemish Government. Are you aware of this and will you give priority to the rail priorities put forward by the Regions in the final selection of the investment projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u64	Madam President, Minister, I note that two questions have been put together. The first question concerns the state of play of the work of the investment cell. My fellow Members and I have asked for this on a number of occasions in this committee. The last answer I received in that connection dates from 2 March. It said that the work would be completed at the end of the first trimester, around this time. What is the current state of affairs? Which projects are or are not prevented? It was also said here that this issue would be discussed in committee. Are you willing to do that? The period up to the first half of the year does not appear to be possible. What's the new timing? Have decisions been taken on the allocation of operating and investment budget allocations for SNCB and for Infrabel? My second question relates to infrastructure, compensation and calculation. But we will deal with them separately.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u65	The administrative section of the Investment Cell, or shorter the analysis committee, has met nine times so far, the last time on Wednesday 20 April. Since the start of the work of the analysis committee at the end of 2015, the FPS Mobility and Transport received a total of 154 sheets for Infrabel, SNCB and the three Regions. 47 of them came from Infrabel, 1 from Infrabel and the Walloon Region, 63 from SNCB, 16 from the Flemish Region, 18 from the Walloon Region and 9 from the Brussels Capital Region. Of these 154 sheets submitted, 59 were already discussed at the meeting of the Analysis Committee. Projects for which similar data sheets have been submitted by different parties are provisionally on hold, pending the elimination of overlaps in consultation with the parties. Projects were asked to be split up in sub-phases, e.g. study and implementation, in order to allow more accurate planning. Taking into account the still missing data and the examination by the analysis committee, I estimate that the analysis committee will be able to end its work by the end of June 2016. On the basis of the input of the analysis committee, the strategic part of the Investment Cell will formulate recommendations. It is then up to SNCB and Infrabel, taking into account these recommendations, to have a new version of the multiannual plan adopted by their respective boards of directors. We are currently working on the organisation of the next meeting of the Strategic Committee. The preparation of the new multi-annual investment plan 2016-2020 will not be delayed by the recent ministerial change. As far as the railway line between Hasselt and Neerpelt is concerned, I am indeed aware that the Flemish Region has submitted an investment sheet to the analysis committee of the investment cell, along with other projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that the work is going on, that certain things are on hold and that there is a need for consultation. I understand. Indeed, consultation is needed in order to achieve accurate planning and a good multi-annual investment plan. So there is no problem in that regard. Allow me, however, to urge you to proceed quickly. It should not happen so quickly that bad business is done, but the cow must be taken by the horns to effectively move towards a new multi-annual investment plan that is supported by the majority of the parties and by the regions. I am also very pleased that you confirm that you are aware of the importance that Flanders attaches to its priority of priorities, namely line 18. You also confirm that this sheet has been submitted and is part of the negotiations. Thank you for that. Perhaps I will continue to remind you of this in the coming weeks and months. So let us agree not to lose sight of this project at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u67	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and I will ask a follow-up question at the beginning of July.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u68	Mr Minister, the calculation of the infrastructure fee is a dossier that was already topical at the time of your presidency of this committee. At the moment, the debate is still topical. Basically, the compensation that the operator has to pay for passenger trains to run, stop and wait for tracks is EUR 7.53, which is quite high. For freight trains, this is the lowest in Europe, in particular EUR 2.6. Historically, the needy cargo leg was the reason to make improper subsidies from public funds to commercial ones. Now, however, we have separate accounts and I do not think we can legally do this anymore. I have recently seen an opinion from the Advisory Committee on Train Passengers, which was a very nuanced opinion. In this committee we held hearings with both Mr Cornu and Mr Lallemand at the same time, and that showed opposing views, which in itself was understandable. The opinion of the Advisory Committee states that the infrastructure fee paid by SNCB should be partially capped, irrespective of indexation and the like. Infrabel must therefore be assured of the necessary additional resources by looking at the distribution of the operating grant differently. When I read the opinion, the capping of the contributions from SNCB makes that the use of additional trains will only generate costs in terms of equipment, staff and energy and less in terms of the use of infrastructure. This may well be the lever for a number of suburban networks to be put in place, because this will be purely accounting and budgetary, which will be better for travellers. I know it's short notice for you as Minister, but have you been able to get your light on the infrastructure fee and its calculation? What is the current state of affairs? Have you already received news from SNCB or Infrabel about a breakthrough in the calculation? After all, we are now finding that there have been months of discussion between these two about the calculation of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u69	Mr Geerts, as the Minister responsible, I am obliged to apply the directives and decisions on infrastructure compensation. In this context, the Council Directive 2012/34 of 21 November 2012 establishing a single European railway area and the measure adopted by the European Commission in the Commission Implementing Regulation 2015/909 on the modalities for calculating the costs directly resulting from the operation of the train service are important. It is on the basis of that provision that the infrastructure manager is entrusted with the task of demonstrating in a transparent, well-founded and objective manner its costs on which the infrastructure fee is based. Several stakeholders of the Belgian rail system were involved in the implementation of that research and this produced interesting ideas about differentiated, more rational and transparent tarification of rail use. It is for the regulatory authority to verify that the charging principles, which will be defined in the network statement, are applied consistently. In accordance with the export Regulation, it is appropriate for the infrastructure manager to submit its adapted method of calculating direct costs to the regulatory authority by 3 July 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, even though it might be useful to refer to the European legislation in force in this area. It is true, of course, that you must comply with European rules. I also know that Directive 2012/34 and Implementing Regulation 2015/909 contain different provisions. However, I believe that there is still an interpretation of competence in the context of the implementation of Article 46 of the Rail Code Act of 30 August. I think the government has been implemented and infected. In that Article 46 it is clear that, by a decision adopted after consultation in the Council of Ministers, the King can determine the method of calculating and paying the fees for the use of the railway infrastructure, and he can determine the specific charging rules. In the railway codex, therefore, it is effective that the European directive can be interpreted by means of a royal decision, albeit after consultation with the Council of Ministers. That is why I believe that the government has that power. I therefore hope that this power will be used effectively for suburban networks, which are essential in our country. This concerns not only Brussels, but also Antwerp, Ghent, Charleroi and probably Liège, where congestion can be combated thanks to this power.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u71	Mr Minister, of course, I join all my colleagues in welcoming you and am delighted, on behalf of my colleagues from Brabant Wallon, to invite you here already for matters that are of great interest to us: the RER, the overflight of Brussels, but also on very different things, such as the subject of my first question, which deals with organized bands of beggars on trains. According to the press, the begging on SNCB trains has returned. These would be organized bands most often acting with leaflets distributed to travellers. Since the adoption of the law "Containing an emergency programme for a more supportive society", the legislative provisions relating to the suppression of vagrancy and begging have been repealed. However, SNCB's spokesperson recently pointed out that begging is prohibited both at railway stations and on trains. In the face of this phenomenon, SNCB staff seem to have no solution. Train attendants are not entitled to intervene, unlike security or police officers, who usually arrive too late at the scene, as beggars have had time to disappear before their intervention. Do you confirm the return of begging by organized gangs on trains? Are special measures in place to combat this phenomenon? Can you, if they exist, tell me more about them? Do you have figures to demonstrate their effectiveness?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to recall that an answer was given to oral question No 9748 concerning the same subject matter. I will not insult my colleagues here, but in the future, when questions have already been asked on an area, I will allow myself to recall the number in one sentence and focus on the new issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u73	That's the rules. Unless, of course, there is new evidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u74	Out of respect for those who came to welcome me for this first meeting, I will answer them. Begging is considered an offence in railway infrastructure - such as railway stations - only if it is aggressive. On the other hand, it is totally prohibited on trains. Since the beginning of 2015, however, we have been witnessing an increase in begging organised by groups of people on some of the lines that are heavily used. Their method of operation is to distribute, on short train journeys, colour leaflets indicating their demand to the passengers. They then collect the money, if any, left by the latter. Since January 2015, 405 such incidents have been reported by flight personnel, conducting a security intervention if the individuals were still on board. In cases where Securail was in place, 82 minutes were written. Different measures have been taken since the beginning of 2016 on the routes most taken by these groups of people, based on the reports of the flight crew to the Security Operations Centre (SOC), the call centre of the SNCB security service. I will quote five elements: - a census of all begging events was carried out and analysed by the Corporate Security Services Strategy Unit; - Securail teams have been specifically oriented on the lines concerned with the problem; - cooperation has been established with the Federal Railway Police in order to draw up a joint action plan; - Securail officers systematically prepare a report when they find this type of incident, so that it can be transmitted to the competent prosecutor's office; - SOC sends available Securail teams in case of alerts and monitors the operation via the video surveillance network. In 2015, a letter was also sent to the public prosecutor's offices in Brussels and Charleroi, the main residences of the offenders, in order to stress the importance of prosecution in this type of case. SNCB continues to monitor this phenomenon closely and collect related information. It also continues to raise the awareness of staff so that they can report all such cases to SOC. This procedure allows for rapid intervention by the Securail services and/or the police, in order to identify the perpetrators and put an end to their actions. Finally, SNCB maintains regular exchanges with the police and judicial services and hopes to see a decrease in the phenomenon in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u75	Minister, the question had indeed been asked. I do not know how we could be more effective, because the question was asked on 16 March, when I introduced mine on 11 March. Thank you for accepting it and for repeating the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u76	Madam President, I shall move timidly. I hope my question has not been asked. The chance of the calendar and sometimes the conjunction...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u77	On the unicycles, no, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u78	Minister, on many occasions the desire has been expressed to see your department tackle the modernization and simplification of the Highway Traffic Code. This is a good thing, given the year of adoption of this code and the many technical and technological changes that have taken place. Along with innovations such as electric bicycles, the number of gyropod-type vehicles is now increasing. In addition, bicycles, skateboards, etc., which are powered by an electric motor are increasingly used. The majority of these vehicles reach a relatively limited speed, but some of them are capable of achieving very high speeds. As with drones, it therefore seems important to legislate and give special place in the Road Traffic Code to these particular means of transport. While the Royal Decree of 13 February 2007 on displacement equipment seemed to have solved the problem, it appears that it did not anticipate the appearance of a means of displacement such as the electric monowheel. Here's his particularity. Indeed, it defines the motorized displacement device as "any two-wheeled motor vehicle or more which, by construction and by the power of its engine alone, cannot exceed the speed of 18 km/h on a level road". Since, by essence, it is composed only of a wheel, it seems to me that the electric monowheel escapes this classification. Minister, what is the current status of this electrical device? What are its rules of use? Are you considering an amendment to the Royal Order to regulate this type of new vehicle?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u79	Minister, I think you were still a member of our committee at the time when then Minister for Transport, Mr Landuyt, introduced the word engines into our road code. Under the regulations on propulsion equipment, monowheels are excluded, as they have only one wheel, as the name itself says, while propulsion equipment must have at least two wheels. As a result, the monowheels cannot actually be legally used on our roads, but they do appear more and more in our street view. On previous questions, your predecessor informed us that as of this year, starting in 2016, those devices could be legally permitted on our roads in accordance with the legislation. Minister, what is the state of play on the regulation of allowing monowheels on public roads? If I am well informed, it was included in the royal decision on electric bikes, which is in preparation, but I look forward to your answer to see that confirmed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a monoroue is comparable to a Segway. Both are actuated by leaning the body forward and backwards. The difference lies in the fact that the monowheel has only one wheel, as its name indicates, and that it behaves without the hands. Since the Segways are admitted to the public highway as a means of travel, I, like Mrs Galant, who had already answered this question in plenary, if my information is good, believe that the same should be true for the monoroues. The monoroue does not yet have a status in the Highway Code. A draft royal decree amending the Road Traffic Code, regulating in particular the status and use of monoroues, is currently subject to the opinion of the Council of State. The reason why it takes longer than initially planned is due to the fact that the adaptation is included in the draft amending decision on the speed pedals or includes fast-electric bicycles. This design has required frequent consultation with all stakeholders, including the Regions. The intention is, moreover, to publish the regulatory adaptations to the Road Traffic Code in conjunction with those contained in the Ministerial Order, which provides for the introduction of a separate mineralogic plate for speed pedalecs and mineralogic plates for all types of mopeds. This order is currently in the Council of State. These new plates also have an impact in operational and computer terms, which will also have an impact on when all this can come into effect. After all, changes to the traffic rules are best combined as much as possible. This project provides for monowheelers to be assimilated to travel units for which the maximum design speed is limited to 18 km/h. When these vehicles are moving at the pace of the step, it is the traffic rules defined for pedestrians that are applied, while when they are moving at a faster speed, it is the traffic rules defined for cyclists that are applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u81	I understand the spirit, minister. In any case, if the monoroue is more than 18 km/h, it must be registered. You put the plate on the pedestrian's pants? I don't see how you can equip the monoroue with a plate. I imagine the firm will be able to think about this in detail. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u82	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, which confirms that this is being taken into account in the legislation on speed pedals. I think the plates are for the speed pedals and not for the monowheels. I think that's where the misunderstanding is. Both are dealt with in the same royal decree, but for the monowheels it is of course not the intention to work with number plates. It is a good thing that legalisation in our public domain is quickly regulated. After all, these devices are increasingly being seen. It is above all an interesting means of transport before and after public transport, so it can certainly have added value in this respect. I look forward to the publication of the royal decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u83	Madam President, Minister, I have recently studied the aviation matter and noticed that a safety fee of EUR 6.73 per plane ticket has to be paid for passengers leaving Brussels Airport. This amount is used, among other things, to pay salaries to airport inspectors, including the sûreté. With the agreement of 3 November 2015 on the tariff system and the tariff control formula, there has also been a limited shift in the method of calculation. I have looked at that, but it remains unclear how resources are spent on the ground. Since 2004, Brussels Airport Company has been responsible for the safety of passengers at the airport in Zaventem and for the operation of the airport, making the company a judge and party. Is it true that every passenger pays 6.73 euros to cover the airport's security costs? Is it true that this amount was determined at KB? What is the total amount of the security fee for 2014 and 2015? If my calculations are correct, I assume there was a spare. How was that amount used and for what purpose? Who's getting paid for this? What does this finance? What amounts go to financing airport inspectors? What amounts go to security equipment such as scanners, detection equipment, camera dressings and the like? What part of this amount should Brussels Airport Company pay to DGLV? What will be the impact of recent attacks on the incoming amount and the amount to be spent? On the one hand, I see that there are fewer revenues and, on the other hand, I assume that there will be more expenditure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u84	Madam President, a security fee is levied at Brussels Airport. This security fee must be paid by all passengers departing from Brussels Airport National, regardless of their origin. The security fee has been EUR 6.19 per departing passenger since 1 April of this year, with the exception of children under the age of two. These rates are intended to ensure the operating conditions of the airport. The security fee is part of the airport fees set by the airport operator after consulting the users of the airport. If a user does not agree with the tariffs proposed by Brussels Airport Company, the user may address a reasoned application to the regulatory authority. The Regulatory Service will examine the application and may, in certain cases, require or impose a tariff adjustment on BAC. The security fee in 2014 was EUR 6,71 per departing passenger and EUR 6,73 per departing passenger in 2015. The impact of growth in traffic in 2014 and 2015 was determined by a decrease in the security fee from 6.73 euros in 2015 to 6.19 euros in 2016. The airport charges are used to ensure the operating conditions of Brussels National Airport. One of these conditions concerns security. Thus, the Royal Decree of 21 June 2004 granting the operating licence of Brussels Airport National provides that BAC is to ensure the airport inspection and the maintenance of security and security on the ground, excluding the tasks of general police and airport inspection as well as military tasks. This includes costs related to security personnel, expenses related to the security and screening service, coverage of all security related investments and related costs. The airport inspectors of public services do not fall within the competence of BAC and are therefore not covered by airport charges. The security fee is fully in favour of Brussels Airport Company. The rates shall be fixed for a period of five years. If revenues would fall as a result of a lower traffic, this does not necessarily mean that costs would fall. However, Brussels Airport Company must comply with its existing obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u85	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Within the KB, of course, I have all the numbers. However, if we look at the annual report on 20 million travellers, I myself will be able to raise a figure of EUR 120 million in revenue in 2014. That EUR 120 million seems to me to be a very important sum. What I want to know is how much money is spent effectively on staff and how much money is spent on investments in security. I know that this is also a matter for the special committee. It's not your responsibility as a minister or your predecessor's. But BAC as a company has received 120 million euros. A pertinent question, including for my fellow Members in other committees, is how much of it has been used for investments in security. I wonder what happened to that money. I think that's pertinent. I hope that this will be clarified in these or other committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u86	Prime Minister, I would like to begin by congratulating you on your appointment. Welcome to our committee. I do not have to tell you that our country has a very extensive rail network. Many of these railway lines pass through villages or densely built urban districts, especially in Flanders, especially in East Flanders. Who lives next to a railway line is familiar with the advantages and usually also the disadvantages. Research has shown that in Flanders as many as 20 000 people suffer from severe noise from trains and that 10 000 people are seriously disturbed in their sleep. From my own experience I live very close to the very busy Ghent-Antwerp railway line and on the basis of testimonies I know that it is mainly the freight trains that cause noise pollution. Many freight trains are composed of old rolling stock and even empty they produce a lot of noise and vibration, much more than the crowded passenger trains. Due to the oversaturation of our rail network, freight transports often take place at night. Flanders is currently working on an action plan on rail traffic noise and would like railway undertakings to be fined for exceeding noise standards by using old, noisy trains. The Flemish government hopes in this way that more investment will be made in new low-noise trains. The imposition of such a penalty or noise differentiated use fees is, of course, a federal competence. My colleague Geerts and I have already asked a number of questions in the past concerning the fight against railway noise. At the end of last year, your predecessor, Mrs Galant, replied to a question from Mr Geerts, that there are European measures supporting the reduction of the noise pollution caused by freight transport by the introduction of low-noise brake pads. In addition, at the beginning of 2014, the installation of a monitoring system allowing the detection of the wheels that are not completely round was announced, causing additional noise. Around 30 monitoring systems would be installed on the main lines of freight trains by the end of 2015. Unfortunately, the deadline was not met. At the time, Minister Galant stated that only eight monitoring systems were installed. Mr Minister, have you already taken note of the Flemish Government's action plan and the specific proposal on noise differentiated allowances? Are you prepared to introduce the penal measure requested by the Flemish Government, not only for Flanders but also for the whole of Belgium? What is the state of play with regard to the roll-out of the low-noise brake pads, which stimulates the European Union? How many monitoring systems are currently in place? I hope there are a lot more than the eight of them last time. What other measures can you take to improve the quality of life along the railway lines? Does the new management agreement with SNCB and Infrabel provide the necessary financial resources, in the final analysis, for infrastructure measures such as the installation of noise shields along the existing railway infrastructure, especially in the densely populated areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u87	Thank you for your words, Mrs Temmerman. The European Directive 2002/49 requires Member States to draw up noise maps and a noise action plan for roads and railways every five years. For the implementation of that Directive, regular consultations shall take place between SNCB, Infrabel, the Mobility and Transport FPS and the regional authorities. In this context, the federal government has taken note of the Flemish action plan on rail traffic noise, which calls for the introduction of the concept of noise differentiated usage fees, NDTAC, as proposed by the European Commission and an implementing regulation of 13 March 2015. Some countries have already introduced a bonus-malus system, for example Germany and the Netherlands. However, introducing a bonus-malus system for retrofitting the rolling material also entails administrative costs. My administration will study in the following months the possibility of imposing a noise differentiated use fee in Belgium. The evolution of the quiet goods car park will be closely followed by Infrabel and the FPS Mobility and Transport. Infrabel therefore installs a monitoring system that allows the detection of irregularities in the wheels of the wagons. The first two measuring systems were installed at the Luchtbal station in Antwerp. In 2015, six additional measurement systems were installed. In 2016 the installation of six new systems will take place as planned. In the long term, a total of 30 measuring systems will be installed on the Infrabelnet to monitor both freight and passenger trains. Based on provisionally available figures, we can see that more than 25% of the car axles counted were already equipped with low-noise brake blocks on 5 000 train passages in Antwerp-Luchtbal, between May 2014 and May 2015. The situation is similar for passenger trains, given the gradual renewal of SNCB trains. Indeed, in 2015, 51% of the SNCB vehicle fleet complied with the new noise standards. By 2025, the share would increase to 64 %. With regard to infrastructure, Infrabel has also introduced measures to reduce rail noise. The measures, which do not entail any additional costs, concern the adaptation of the tracks placed between the concrete cross-beams and the rails, and the adaptation of the rail guidance techniques. The implementation of such measures at source, which are much more efficient than the placement of sound screens, will remain a priority in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u88	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I would have liked a little clarification. When you say that the share will increase by 2025 to 64 %, is it all trains, both freight and passenger trains? After all, I fear that it is mainly passenger trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u89	I think it's just passenger trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u90	I'm afraid so. The biggest problems are, of course, with the freight wagons, because they are much older. I welcome your answer that you will look at the possibilities of dealing with this and that is being sought, but this was also the answer last time to the installation of thirty systems to monitor and improve the situation. Above all, however, we must offer solutions. You say that sound screens are only part of the solution. That's true: the vibrations are not stopped by the sound screens. However, I can assure you that, according to the rapporteurs for research in Flanders, the health costs of rail traffic noise and all that has to do with it amount to about EUR 44.5 million a year. So I think we really need to look at how we can improve the situation, and above all, not to say almost exclusively, with regard to freight wagons, and I hope that this will also be included in the next management agreement. Again, I'm an experienced expert. I live next door to a railroad. The difference between passenger and freight wagons is very large. The noise of the passenger cars is almost nil, but the noise caused by freight wagons is sometimes very bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u91	Minister, I have regularly questioned Mrs Galant about Belgocontrol in recent months. I would like to ask you about the financing of Belgocontrol and the social agreement. I think you passed the social agreement, signed on 12 April, to the government. If you have done so, it allows Belgocontrol to continue in the negotiations. Given the lack of funding provided for in the 2016 initial budget or during the last budgetary control, when are you going to get the federal government to honour the benefits that are due to Belgocontrol under the last management contract?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u92	Mrs Lalieux, the social agreement of 12 April 2016 must be the subject of a royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers, in accordance with Article 16 of the Law of 6 January 2014 on the sixth reform of the State concerning the matters referred to in Article 78 of the Constitution. As regards the part relating to the arrangements for the availability of air traffic controllers, the various measures of the social agreement will have to be implemented in consultation with the social partners. The payment of these services is essential to enable Belgocontrol to have the necessary resources to invest in the protection of its sites and to modernise and secure its air traffic management systems. It should be noted that the majority of Belgocontrol's costs are financed by airspace users. The Federal State finances only part of Belgocontrol's services at airports. According to the 1989 Cooperation Agreement, the Regions also participate. The Belgian State shall take the necessary measures to ensure the safety of its airspace in accordance with the third management contract concluded between the Belgian State and Belgocontrol. That is why I will reiterate as soon as possible the request for funding from the 2016 federal budget from the government's partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u93	Thank you, Minister. It is very important that this decree comes out as soon as possible to endorse the social agreement. It is on this basis that they will be able to continue to negotiate all the other things required by air controls. Have you set a timetable for this royal decree in the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u94	I didn't set a closed timing. I will ask for its inclusion, as well as for two or three other points.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u95	But what about the royal decree?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u96	No, there's funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u97	I get it. The social agreement has been endorsed. You're telling me that it takes a royal decree to do this. In order for them to continue to negotiate in Belgocontrol, they need this endorsement. That is why I say that there is an urgent need to avoid prolonged sick leave. This royal decree must be taken to put everyone around the table. At the same time, with regard to the financing of the 25 million, there is no need to recall the whole history. In this committee, we are well aware of the problem. On the cooperation agreement, Minister Galant told us that she was negotiating. So I hope that we can do this soon. Today, in order to reassure Belgocontrol, the citizens and users of the airport about safety, it is important that the funding comply with the management contract signed by the federal government and that it be included in the budget from the outset, or the first adjustment. We must now wait for the next adjustment. It is complicated to manage properly by working in this way, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u98	Madam President, Minister, we have read that there would be an agreement in principle on the liberalisation of the European rail network. That agreement would have been reached on 20 April as part of the fourth railway package. The sp.a has long believed that blind liberalisation is absolutely unavoidable. This would only be done with cherry picking, through the privatisation of profitable lines and the socialization of loss-making lines. The consequences include rising prices for travellers, the safety that is at stake and employment regulations which are subordinate to profits. We have found a number of guidelines for the agreement in the newspapers. Public procurement becomes the standard but there would also be a possibility of direct award. According to the newspaper's comments, until the last moment there was apparently a major disagreement about the social aspects. Should carriers be obliged or not to take over the staff in accordance with the applicable conditions of employment when taking over the contract? Apparently, this obligation would have been removed at the last minute. I come to my questions. Can you explain this agreement? What position has Belgium taken during the negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u99	Mr Minister, the European Union has reached agreement on the fourth railway package, which provides in particular that passenger transport will have to open up to competition from 2023 onwards. The European Union wants national monopolies to have completely disappeared by 2033 at the latest. The agreement provides for flexibility for countries that could demonstrate that, given the characteristics of their networks, openness to competition would be counterproductive. But the burden of proof would be on the country in question and companies potentially interested in entering the market could challenge the decision, according to a European source quoted by L'Echo. The European Commission believes that this liberalisation will improve the quality of service and lower the ticket price for the traveller. However, the record of the countries where this liberalization has already been carried out shows the opposite. In the United Kingdom, as a result of liberalisation, ticket prices are three times higher, and users spend three times as much of their budget on public transport. Trains are more late and the number of accidents has increased significantly. The state is forced to spend even more money on rail than before liberalisation, in order to put some order in the mess caused by private companies. There is only one segment of the population: the shareholders of railway undertakings. In England, these shareholders received £200 million in dividends in 2013, while tariffs had risen sharply for users. In the Netherlands, in the framework of the parliamentary investigation into the FYRA, the former president of the NS claimed that "the mother of all the misfortunes in this scandal was the privatization of society". This process of liberalization seems to be a serious threat. Mr Minister, what would be the consequences of such liberalisation in Belgium for rail users - prices, rail offers, quality of service -, for SNCB staff and for rail safety? What is your position and that of the government on the fourth railway package? Do you see it as an opportunity or rather as a threat? Will you plead for the flexibility clause in the liberalisation process? If so, on the basis of what arguments? If not, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u100	Minister, on April 19, the Trilogue reached a draft agreement that will be presented to Coreper. The most optimistic view was that the Council could even vote in the near future on the political side of the fourth railway package. Divergent interpretations of the scope of the draft agreement are circulating. Some believe that network liberalisation will become mandatory by 2023, while others believe that Member States will be able to maintain the choice of direct allocation to an internal operator under certain conditions linked to service improvement. It also appears that the social dimension has been largely ignored by the negotiators. As a reminder, your predecessor had publicly pledged to defend the Benelux position, which means that any other proposal should be rejected. Minister, can you give us a detailed account of the agreement that has been reached? Do you confirm the Benelux position as Belgium's official position? What is the government's mandate for its Coreper representatives? Will Belgium be able, as we think, to assign its network directly to an internal operator? If not, will Belgium strongly oppose the political aspect of the fourth railway package?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, following six meetings of the Trilogue, the market pillar of the fourth railway package was indeed formally agreed on 19 April. However, this agreement has not yet been fully endorsed, since each institution, the Council and the European Parliament, has yet to give formal approval. The Committee of Permanent Representatives of the Council of the European Union (Coreper) will meet for this purpose on 27 April. As a reminder, Coreper is composed of representatives of the member countries of the European Union with the rank of ambassador to the European Union. It is chaired by the country of the European Union which holds the presidency, in this case the Netherlands. I would remind you that the liberalisation of the sector took place in the 1990s and gradually continued. It is therefore not a new process. As regards the content, the "markets" pillar of the fourth railway package consists of two main aspects: the governance aspect, which is reflected in an amendment to EU Directive 2012/34 establishing a single European railway area, and the public service obligation aspect, which aims to amend the Regulation of 13 September 2007. The governance aspect mainly aims to strengthen the independence of the infrastructure manager's core function vis-à-vis the railway undertaking. The transposition of the Directive must be completed no later than 24 months after its entry into force. The public service obligations aspect provides that the principle of awarding public service contracts is the invitation to tender. However, major exceptions exist. In fact, the direct award of public service contracts will always be possible, without any time limit, subject to compliance with a performance scheme. Thus, it will be up to the State to determine the objectives to be met by the public service, to check at regular intervals their success and to impose dissuasive penalties, if necessary, in order to put the incumbent public service operator back on the right track. Belgium has, moreover, largely defended this idea of allowing States to continue to proceed with the direct award of public service contracts, since the characteristics of an infrastructure did not lend themselves to the transition to the tender procedure, a competitive procedure which is not suitable for the organisation and structure of our network. However, the current direct allocation can be used for 7 years, leaving an appreciable amount of time to migrate to the direct allocation scheme taking place within the framework of the performance scheme. The transitional period of 7 years shall begin as soon as the Regulation is published in the Official Journal of the European Union, which is scheduled to be published at the end of 2016, at the beginning of 2017. Moreover, with regard to the social aspects of public service obligations, the agreement reached between the three European institutions does not create any real added value in protecting workers. There is, in fact, no real progress under the law currently in force, which optionally provides for the application of Directive 2001/23 providing staff with protection in the event of a transfer. Belgium, for its part, was in favour of strengthening the protection of workers by following the path initially advocated by the European Parliament in its resolution of 26 February 2014, but this position was largely minority within the Council. Furthermore, the European Parliament abandoned this position and showed greater openness on this point vis-à-vis the Council and the European Commission, which led in particular to the agreement of 19 April. At last, there was no deletion of the provision at the last minute on this subject. The principles of the Benelux position were well defended by the Belgian delegation during the negotiations which took place within the Council, at the level of the Coreper Land Transport Working Group and at the level of ministerial resolutions. Indeed, as mentioned above, the various Belgian representatives defended in particular the maintenance of direct attribution and the strengthening of social conditions. I hope you've understood the process. If the historical operator, which is public, can demonstrate, through the parameters and performance indicators that will have to be defined with him, that he attains the levels of performance with a defined periodicity of 3, 4 or 5 years – I apologize, I do not have all this in mind yet – he will be able to retain his delegation of public service mission. I think that this is an excellent option for the Belgian government. In any case, that's the option I was defending even before I was a minister. I don't think the size of our country makes it possible to open up. I am not saying that there have been no attempts, but it will also be necessary for the incumbent to modernise and adapt to the market, demonstrating that its efficiency, measured by indicators, improves over time. Of course, regardless of the European directive, it is an objective that we all pursue. Today, we all know the difficulties. We dare to hope that tomorrow will be a better day than yesterday and today in terms of performance at the service of the country's mobility. That is the message I wanted to send on the occasion of the answer to these interesting questions that you have asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u102	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll join you when you say that the historical operator must permanently improve himself. I believe that this is in the interests of both the government and the travellers and the company. So I have absolutely no problem with that. It would be foolish of us to leave everything this way without making effective efforts to improve the quality of service. I also agree with you that we, as a small country, must be careful within that whole that we retain the possibility of doing so. We must be able to give the necessary time so that this company can survive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u103	Minister, I am pleased with the main part of your response, which is to say that we must be able to rely on the historic operator and to indicate that the government is moving in this direction. This is the desirable option for rail personnel, users and a good development of public transport. This decision is wise, and I support it. However, I add a little bit. I heard you put forward as the main argument the size of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u104	I said it, but that's not the only reason.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u105	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u106	That's not my main justification. Don't interpret it like that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u107	I therefore reduce the size of this argument! I would therefore be interested in your other justifications. I'm coming to my second reserve. What do you mean by "modernization"? If modernising is to develop a well-functioning public enterprise, but respectful of the interests of users and workers, I fully share this view. On the other hand, if we are to persevere in what is currently being imposed on SNCB in terms of savings and productivity growth without looking at the negative effects, I cannot support such a vision. In any case, we will discuss it again in the weeks, months or even years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u108	Minister, I am reassured by the allocation, first without limitation for 7 years, and then according to a performance plan. Again, the performance of a company is not only the result of its workers, but also the result of a state that supports the company. How can he do it, if not by giving it the necessary means? We therefore expect state support for these two companies that need it. In any case, this is good news for the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u109	Minister, in my turn, I wish you every success in the perhaps very difficult task you are facing. It is not the first time that the Leuven Straight route has been mentioned in this committee, and probably not the last. The recent ruling of the Dutch-speaking court of first instance in Brussels has surprised the municipalities of Holsbeek, Haacht, Rotselaar and Aarschot, to say the least, at least. The municipalities are considering whether they will continue to appeal, because the court issued a counter-argument in less than one year. The Leuven Straightway route was introduced on 6 March 2014 and led to an unfair concentration of noise in the region north of Leuven. The municipalities in that region are already making an enormous effort at 80% of the decline in air traffic. Through the route Leuven Straight through there was another part of the rising air traffic. By the way, the recently released official evaluation by Belgocontrol is devastating for that flight route. The report concludes that "compared to the previous situation, the Leuven straight route has a negative impact on flight efficiency and on the complexity of air traffic management." It is surprising to note that the judge does not take this into account, nor the enormous additional noise in the abovementioned municipalities, and merely concludes that the Belgian State is free to determine routes. I have the following questions. What are your insights about the Leuven straight ahead? In what way do you proceed with this file? Do you intend to remove the Leuven straightaway route, as has happened before, so that the noise balance can be restored? What is the reason for your decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u110	By order of 6 April 2016, the President of the Court of First Instance in Brussels of the Dutch-speaking Chamber annulled the judgments of 7 and 11 May 2015, imposing on the Belgian State any use of the procedures published on 6 March 2014 for the route 07 Leuven Straight ahead. In accordance with the position taken by the Belgian State for years, the court confirmed that the contested instructions could not be regarded as plans or programmes to that effect in the law of 13 February 206. The Belgian State's arguments and defences on the substance of the dispute were all accepted, without any exception. Similarly, the argument put forward for the noise caused by the VLAREM regulation was invalidated. The President held that the political choice of the State in the present case was not unreasonable. As a result of the last decision, the strike of the Leuven route has been lifted straight ahead and the route can be used completely legally. The operational analysis of the routes on the basis of the simulator test showed that most aircraft using the flight route in question are at more than 6,000 feet when flying over the complaining municipalities. This level is generally considered to be no longer part of the noise level measured. The NDAP1 system, an optimized take-off profile, which will soon be introduced, will also allow aircraft to rise even faster and reach altitudes as quickly as possible, reducing noise levels on the ground. The decision of the President of the Court of First Instance has not yet been served and has not yet been challenged. However, I would like to agree with the government agreement that the route concerned will be evaluated. An analysis was carried out on the safety and capacity aspects. This is currently being investigated by my services. Meetings with the associations of citizens have taken place in order to try to find a satisfactory solution. With regard to the evaluation cited by Belgocontrol on 25 June, it should be clarified that the environment and noise impact are not part of Belgocontrol's competence framework. Belgocontrol's expertise is limited to the operational aspects of air traffic control. In order to safeguard the objectivity of the debates, it is appropriate not to mix.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic401x.u111	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The fact that you do not rule on the judge's judgment for the rest is no more than normal. I only took it upon myself to bring the problem back to your attention. It doesn't make any sense that there's less noise caused by the 6,000 feet. If you evaluate all the routes in a clear way, you will see that Leuven does cause more noise nuisance for those complaining municipalities, for the very simple reason that we already had the most noise nuisance. Now there's more trouble, while other routes are spared. So I will come back to that very often. The evaluation agreed in the coalition agreement is only logical. That may be a very good thing, but I would only ask you to implement it as soon as possible, when Leuven is being widely used straight ahead. Your predecessor has always extended it for herself. That evaluation should be carried out on the basis of objective criteria and in comparison with the other routes. I wanted to give you that message today, Minister. It's still a problem. I hope you will make a wise decision in that, but I have no reason to believe that you would not.
