ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u1	Question No 11269 by Mrs Willaert has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u2	Mr President, Secretary of State, your predecessor, Mr Tommelein, announced in the spring that he would like to address the fragmentation of social inspection services. This fragmentation of services is not effective in the fight against social fraud, and costs are growing, as many of these services have their own management structure and their own management. Cutting these structures can save a lot of money. When you took office as Secretary of State, you stated that you certainly wanted to continue your predecessor's plans. Recently, some of your reform proposals were announced. For example, I would say this in a conditional manner, because we have not formally heard from you that the Social Inspectorate is merging with the inspection service of the RSZ. The announcement of this possible merger almost immediately led to unrest and protest. Mr Secretary of State, I have two specific questions. Are you aware of the criticism of your proposal that is before you today? Do you understand the reaction of the Social Inspectorate? Are you willing to change the initial plans, taking into account the different points of criticism? If so, what changes do you intend to make?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u3	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I come back to the discussion we had at the plenary session on 22 September because the context now allows us to explain more about this process of social inspection reform. This service is an essential link in the fight against social dumping, which destroys thousands of jobs every year in our country and undermines many entrepreneurs who respect social legislation by paying dues properly. These include the construction and transport sectors. The ongoing reform raises concerns and discontent between field inspectors and labour court magistrates. This seems to me to be a signal to take into account. It seems to be a question of assigning social inspection officers to INAMI, INASTI or ONSS, i.e. structures that are not specialised in the fight against social fraud. At this stage, it is difficult to see how the reform could address the lack of human resources devoted to the challenge of combating social fraud and dumping. You may have been misunderstood, Mr. Secretary of State; perhaps we should change course, at least that is my impression. How was the consultation organised with the departments concerned and with the labour auditors to prepare for this reform? Has their opinion been taken into account? In what way? Can you tell me how the fight against fraud and social dumping will be reorganized as a result of this reform? What will happen to current services? To which structures will social inspection officers be reassigned? Can you detail what additional human and material resources will be allocated to the fight against fraud and dumping? Can you present the government's timetable for implementing this reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u4	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my colleagues have just referred to the context. I'd like to understand. Last July, you and your colleague, Minister Borsus, took a big walk. All the cameras were invited to show how effective you wanted to be in the fight against social dumping. That is very good, but I still heard yesterday from the Confederation of Construction, which called on the federal government to move at last by pointing excessively to the lack of action and intervention, even though important levers are on the federal side. To return to social inspection, we need reasons to change everything. What do you blame them for? Do you think they're not effective? Do you find that there are malfunctions and problems? A reform is based first on a diagnosis and is justified on the basis of a diagnosis. If this is an efficiency search, I would like to hear a lot of things. I wonder, however, whether there is a pretext behind all this. Indeed, it was necessary to make this famous redesignation of the federal administrations. Since then, the government has changed. I have to. No one had done anything about it. Is that a budgetary pretext? In any case, compared to the option you have taken, there are many reactions. They come first from the services. You'll retort me that it's because they're concerned, that they don't want to change. I would therefore like to convey to you here the positions of the judges of the labour courts. That's interesting. They know the matter well. It is those who are on the ground, those who, in the end, clearly allow strong decisions to be taken. What do they say? I quote Judge Clesse: "It is as if the local police were being taken from a King's prosecutor. How do you want them to control and organize repression without anyone on the ground? However, social inspection is the main strike force in terms of control and respect for social security. Without them, it's almost an invitation to fraud for all employers." You're going to tell me we're not going through with them and we're just reorganizing the services. With regard to this reorganization, and in particular the division between the INAMI, INASTI and ONSS services, Justice Clesse states: "At ONSS, they manage the files through joint councils. Their approach is much more administrative. They are more inclined to just claim social contributions due, but without a fine." All the auditors at work speak with one voice on this issue. They hope that it is not too late to change the options taken at the federal level. I would like here to take over from labour judges and those on the ground who are fighting against social dumping. This is a major issue. The Confederation of Construction recalled that yesterday. There is therefore an urgent need to manoeuvre in this regard. It is good to create new jobs, but the priority is to avoid further haemorrhage in different sectors. Indeed, sectors other than construction are also directly concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u5	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in the government agreement we agreed that the social inspection services would be adequately supported and, if necessary, strengthened in order to achieve the objectives of controls in sensitive sectors. Your predecessor confirmed that in his policy paper and it was also confirmed in your policy paper. It was confirmed that there would be substantial investment in people and resources. You have always been able to count on our support in this respect. After all, we are also convinced that there must still be a physical presence on the ground of inspection, on construction sites and in sectors sensitive to fraud. Apparently, a strategic task force was also set up to make proposals by 1 October 2016. Apparently, there are these proposals now. The deadline of October 1st was thus met. There would also be representatives of Ministers Peeters, De Block and Borsus because it is the intention to seek integrated synergies between social inspections and certain administrations. Before criticising, as some Members are already doing, I would first like to listen to your proposals, which ultimately came out of the box. What are the bottlenecks, if any, in addition to the proposals that have emerged? After all, I can imagine that not everything has been solved. What are the bottlenecks that we are still working on? Your predecessor announced that there would be 96 inspectors. How many of these have been recruited in the meantime? That seems to me to be important in order to know whether we are indeed doing that. In the context of the planned reform, where some already anticipate what you might say, what are the practical and other consequences for the current inspectors? In what way will these inspectors possibly feel this reform? What are the points of interest to these people and how can they possibly take account of what is being told on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, it is clear to our party that different services need to work together in order to avoid overlaps, for example in a yard, and that data should be exchanged. As a result of your statements, we have a number of reservations about ensuring the independence of the various control bodies. There is also concern about whether or not to increase the efficiency of the reform you are proposing. That concern is there. Other fellow Members referred to it as well. Not everyone is convinced that the reform will lead to improvement. I think this should be the objective. In the plenary session of 22 September, you made a number of statements. What is the state of play today? What elements do you bring in to increase the impact force? What is the timing for the new structure with regard to the impact on staffing, classification and so on? The government declaration contains a reinforcement of 100 inspectors. Is that a net or is it 100 additional recruitments minus natural person turnover?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u7	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the various questions. First of all, I am pleased that everyone agrees with this government's objective of fighting harder against social dumping and social fraud at least, that there can be no discussion of the objective. But then I will find a certain paradox. On the one hand, I am told about the number of jobs lost as a result of social dumping and the bad situation in Liège in the construction sector; on the other hand, I am asked about the need for greater efficiency. It is necessary, of course! It is quite clear to me that the fight against social dumping and social fraud must be strengthened on the ground today. That is why we are doing this reform. The eight inspection services on the ground today, eight inspection services, do not cooperate sufficiently. There is a fragmentation of resources and competences. There's a fragmentation of impact on the ground. As a result, there are double checks, too little effort is made on data mining and data is lost. That is the essence of the reform we are doing. Then, of course, comes the problem. Everyone sees that there is a need to change, everyone wants change but nobody wants to change themselves. We find that problematic. After all, we have an exercise that has preceded a process. Ms Fonck, a task force worked for six months to analyze the processes to be integrated and to know what collaborations were to be made and how to make them more effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u8	How was this task force composed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u9	It was composed of deputy heads from the various departments, relevant firms and people with field expertise. For me, this input was essential. What have we done now? We've had that task force working and discussing for six months. This has led to the fact that four main lines of action are needed. Firstly, there must be agreement and clarity on the strategic objectives. What is the priority when we talk about tackling social fraud and social dumping? What expertise should we bring together? How do we make interdisciplinary teams? That is the first chapter of my reform. The second chapter was also clear. It concerned the new mission and the new role of SIRS. SIRS becomes a strategic body that directs the various social inspection services through a defined plan; it is essential. The coordination of this strategy will fall within the competence of SIRS. The third chapter concerns the new structure. Of course, if we are to introduce a new strategy, a new coordination, new skills directed towards the different inspection services, a new structure is needed. There is also a need to examine how people can better collaborate on the ground. In this context, the government has committed to hiring more than 96 additional inspectors. These individuals will be able to travel to the field to strengthen the strike force of the various inspection services. It is also important to note that we have spoken with different parties for this structural reform. Firstly, we spoke with the administrators-general of the services concerned. I have also spoken to staff and trade union representatives. I have also spoken to the magistrates twice, so that we could see how they could respond to their concerns in the note on reform. The reform does not mean an end. That's what the last chapter of my note says. I could easily have put a piece of work on the table for a new structure and said that it would be okay with that. However, it is not all right, because even with the new structure, we must continue to study how we can optimise processes and how we can adapt legislation. As an example, I mention the law on bogus self-employment, in the fight against bogus self-employment. In matters relating to public procurement, we also need to clarify this with a view to much more action on the ground. A path has also been laid down for the post-reform process. It is not just about the integration and better cooperation of the various services. In many other areas too, efforts are being made to make inspection services less complex and more effective. That is the current state of affairs. This is currently being discussed in the government. There has been a broad consultation with all services and with all interested parties. So there is a clear vision on the table, which is being discussed in the government. I hope that this will allow us to land in the coming weeks, or perhaps even days.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u10	Mr Secretary of State, it is very positive that you recognise the need for integration. We support you in that. I am also totally on the same page when you say that strengthening the site must be the result of cutting and working on the structures. I'm all along with that story. However, the exercise must be thought through, not just with people and structures, but also thoroughly; it must not be a measure of nothing. In the course of the topical and urgent debate a few weeks ago, I did not intend to praise or destroy a plan which was not yet known at the time. What is ahead today is lean; it should be a little more. All our objections to today's organisational structure remain in full force. The fragmentation remains too great: many political responsibilities, many board members and many unproductive, smaller inspection services. I should like to take this opportunity to mention what is very positive, without really going into detail: the extension of the supervisory powers of the social inspectors is a major step forward. I understand it's a process and we're not going to my ideal world with one step. As I said, this is a step in a process. However, I would like to call once again for a little more ambition. Perhaps the hearings, which were called for at the last committee meeting on the dossier, could take us a few steps further.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u11	Mr President, Secretary of State, the fight against social dumping is a top priority. It is recalled very regularly by the actors on the ground, whether they are employers or workers' representatives. This is not the debate today, but the first thing to do is to change the rules, especially on public procurement. The federal state is completely behind schedule in this regard. I have no difficulty in imagining that the inspection services are organized differently in the future, that we are trying to develop synergies, to eliminate competition. But we don't change a system like this without the actors on a daily basis, the beneficiaries and the observers – I would classify the auditors of the work in this category. In the field, there is a clear lack of understanding of the changes under way. You're saying there's consultations, you've met the magistrates, the staff. I don't know if you did it before or after September 22, but there is still work to be done to ensure that your reform is understood, accepted and led to efficiency. We will not be able to do this without means. I hear from other members of the majority that savings must be made, that there must be a redesign of the administration. It is realized that by linearly abolishing the labour force, services are less effective and actions on the ground are not being carried out. At the beginning of the afternoon, Mr President, we will speak again about my suggestion to have hearings, to hear the actors on the ground and to take more time in this committee for the Secretary of State to explain his reform. I believe that Parliament can play a role in adjusting its plans and ensuring that everyone feels more heard, so that the system of combating social dumping is more effective. The aim here is to protect jobs in our country. They disappear in thousands, even ten thousand.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u12	Mr. Secretary of State, it is the principle of efficiency that must guide us. There are two ways forward: the organizational and legislative aspects. I hear your comments on the organizational side. Frankly, I am not convinced that all this is not a purely budgetary pretext. If we drag elements to other structures, and if the result is that the way inspectors work weakens the repressive logic, and the repressive levers are reduced, it is contrary to the interests of our companies and our workers. I'll say it right away. If we do not think sufficiently, and if we do not guarantee a true force of full and complete repression, in fine, we will lose a major tool of action. Then come the legal parts! In this regard, it is good to say that inspectors do not do enough; first, they need more human resources. But beyond that, Belgium needs to position itself much more in the foreground on the legal front. We have tabled texts, and opportunities have been missed in discussions and debates here on these pieces of legislation. I would also point out that legal levers exist at European level. One of the Commissioners, Marianne Thyssen, is Belgian: what better way to make progress? I finally hear your majority partner calling for more ambition. That's it! We have a strong strike force for our employers and workers. We could certainly do more and better. The reform that you are proposing is, in my opinion, a shift that will lead to a downward trend at the budgetary level and, consequently, at the repressive level. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u13	Mr President, I do not follow this debate very well. Mr Secretary of State, you have explained the content of the proposals, but I am still hungry because you have not answered any of my questions. I had asked to explain the proposals that have come out of the bus and which have apparently appeared in the press. However, I would have liked to have seen or heard you explain this question. Apparently, I can't. It's annoying to have to deal with things that way. So I don't know what's in store. You just mentioned it, like in a management course, about vision, strategy, means, follow-up, and so on. However, I have not heard any concrete proposals. Perhaps that was not the intention, but then they should not be communicated to the press. How many recruits have there been? I don't know. You know that, I don't. That was one of my questions. Another question was what the proposals are and what their consequences will be. Apparently, my fellow Members know what the consequences will be, but I do not know. I am therefore simply asking for an explanation of the proposals. Because if we have to debate through the press, then we will have to organise our work in a different way. I am reading again today in the press about matters relating to other items for which you are authorised. Will we have to have all the discussions through the press in the future? For me, however, we will have to organise our committee work slightly differently.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u14	Then we probably need another government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, it would indeed be interesting to have a detailed open debate in this House, whether on the basis of questions or not, on the measures you think you should take. Despite the different appreciations of your answer, I believe that there is a broad consensus on the importance of combating social dumping. No one has any doubt about that. It is only about what one will do about it and at what level. I still think it is a shortcoming that our Criminal Code does not contain any legal instruments against social dumping, that we have given people in the field an insufficient legal arsenal to combat social dumping and that the government has insufficient resources to do so. What Mr Vercamer said about the management course is correct, but I think that we need to look into the arrangements for the work when we can get a state of affairs from you on exactly what you want, how far you stand and what timing you put in front of you. This could help to clarify things.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u16	Mr President, I wish to speak on the organisation of work. I did not address this subject before, preferring to let the questions take place, out of respect for the Secretary of State. If I am not mistaken, it had been agreed at a previous meeting to hold hearings. As far as we are concerned, we have given names. I would therefore like to know whether this trail is being abandoned. It had been said that those issues would be dealt with at the time of the hearings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u17	We'll discuss it this afternoon at 3:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u18	It's perfect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u19	Mr President, I would like to respond to two points. Firstly, it was not my wish that a piece of reform, based on incorrect information, should appear in the press. My wish was to get through the reform properly first, with all due respect to the staff, for they are the people who are currently living in uncertainty. I do not know from what angle this press leak comes from, but I deeply regret it because it makes it difficult to have a serene internal debate between the services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u20	So it wasn't from your angle?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u21	Mr President, it did not come from my side at all. I'd like to say that formally. Secondly, there is also the element of respect for Parliament. If such reform is to take place, Parliament must also be able to discuss it. The third element is budgetary constraint. This exercise is an exercise of effectiveness in the field. This is not a redesign exercise to bring back funds from the budget. On the contrary, we are hiring staff, strengthening and making inspection services more effective. The aim is by no means to have a budgetary discussion on this reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, you are particularly questioning the press, but who organised a big show on the ground? Then, of course, you don't have to ask yourself any questions or start...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u23	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u24	You didn't call all the TV, radio, etc.- Is that what you're saying? Of course I do. I'm not gonna get the movie back here! On the other hand, you say that this is not a fiscal year or a redesign. Mr. Secretary of State, you're dragging social inspectors to "dilute" them in different departments. Sorry for the little, but it doesn't look like a dilution, the aim being to decrease the impact and lever force they need! In addition, you "dilute" them into services which, initially, are not characterised by their repressive levers, but which simply assume that a correction must be made and that the persons concerned must pay their social contributions, if this has not yet been done. We need to be much more ambitious in this area. Otherwise, we're going to let an already gravissim situation get worse.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u25	Mr Secretary of State, my question may be a little out of date because we haven't seen each other in this setting for a long time. A number of things have become clear in the meantime, but I'm still interested to hear your assessment. You know that a number of Member States opposed Mrs Thyssen's plan to tackle social dumping and unfair competition. That plan provided for a number of measures to ensure that those foreign workers in the EU would receive the same wage and working conditions as their colleagues from the country where they are working. However, the Member States which believe that Mrs Thyssen's proposal violates the principle of subsidiarity, and they drew the yellow card. The Commission had to consider whether or not it would continue with that plan. In the meantime, this has become clear. My initial question was what your response was to the protest of those ten Member States. How do you estimate that? How do you feel about that? In your opinion, is the argument for violating the principle of subsidiarity correct? What's your point of view?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u26	Mr Raskin, indeed, Mrs Thyssen's proposal had initially received a yellow card from 11 Member States, not only from Eastern Europe but also from one Western European Member State, Denmark, if I am not mistaken. We have now seen that the Commission's response was very clear. Mrs Thyssen has stood firm, and I believe that she continues to defend her proposal. We support her in that. This has already been discussed at several meetings of the European Council. Belgium has always supported Mrs Thyssen's proposal on behalf of myself or Minister Peeters. In my view, there is absolutely no violation of the principle of subsidiarity. How could it be? Social dumping is an eminently cross-border phenomenon and therefore calls for a common European approach to ensure that at least the rules are clarified and simplified at European level. In short, we give our support to Mrs Thyssen's proposal and we are trying to convince other countries through diplomatic means to embrace it. I am also thinking of Eastern European countries. If Belgium and the other Western European countries fail to tackle social dumping, in which people do not respect the rules on social contributions, wages and working conditions, the support for the European internal market and for the posting of workers within the European Union will be lost. However, it seems to me that it is a pillar of the European Union that can be posted. I would like to add that, of course, we do not wait for the European level. We are taking action by making bilateral agreements within the framework of existing legislation on posting, the existing enforcement directive, so that inspection services in the field could act much more coordinatedly, in cooperation with other countries, against social dumping. We have recently concluded an agreement with France, but also with Bulgaria, which is one of those countries that gave a yellow card. This shows that there is a willingness, including in those countries, to take a step forward for cooperation at European level, especially when it comes to concrete action and cooperation between inspection services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u27	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I think we all agree that Mrs Thyssen's plan deserves all the support. It's the least that could happen. I also hear that you are making clear efforts at the European table to convince a number of countries of the good intentions of that plan, with a view to maintaining the European Union's support. You are not waiting for this and you are concluding agreements with a number of countries. That has always been difficult in the past. Apparently, something's moving there. Nevertheless, I think there is still a long way to go. The question is, of course, to what extent Mrs Thyssen's plan and the conclusion of agreements with other countries are making progress. After all, we are dealing with the imbalance in the payment of social security contributions. There are different ideas about this and perhaps it would be useful to have that debate here in the long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u28	We now come to Question No 5, by Mr Beazley, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 11531
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u29	Mr President, I propose to turn this question into a written question. It would be a reading exercise on both sides... so we will have more time for more political questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u30	Question No 11531 by Mrs Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u31	Mr Secretary of State, my question dates from before the recess. Despite the mandatory introduction of the white register, there were still over 6 000 cases that did not have one. That is very unfair competition with those who already have a white register. After all, they already enjoy the favor measures, despite the fact that they do not have a white register yet: VAT reduction on food, flexi jobs, more and cheaper overtime, the tax shift. The sooner the obligation is met, the better. You've announced more checks. Since 1 May, how many checks have been carried out on catering establishments which have not yet fulfilled their obligations? In how many cases were actual infringements detected by the inspection? In how many cases did they involve infringements in respect of undeclared work? What action has been taken in the meantime on these inspections? What and how many sanctions are involved in this? In what way do you want to organise self-control in the catering sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u32	Mr Vercamer, as you know, controls on the white register are a matter for Mr Van Overtveldt. We have asked for a number of things to be done. Firstly, there is the fact that checks are initially carried out on those cases where we find that there is no white register today. That seems to me to be a priority, because we want a level playing field for everyone in terms of fair competition. Unfortunately, it is still too early to give specific figures on the checks that have been carried out on the ground. However, we have asked for regular and separate reports on the checks so that it becomes clear how the sector is being monitored and what is happening in the sector. We also asked SIOD, together with the social partners in the sector, to draw up a report on the way controls were carried out. It is important that we make it clear that, when checks are carried out on the ground, these checks can be carried out in a respectful manner. It is too early to give you concrete answers to the real figures we have on the number of checks and the consequences given to them by the various inspection services. After all, I don't have them today. I asked the question again about these figures at the beginning of this week. I suggest I give you the numbers as soon as I have them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u33	Mr Secretary of State, I assume that will be registered. Is there no computer available or how does it work? Surely it can't be very difficult to find out how many controls there have been? I don't understand that very well. These figures must now be perfectly known. My question dates back to June 10, 2016. I cannot therefore be given any figures on 17 October 2016, three months later. That's not going to happen to me, unless they're still turfing with stripes there. I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u34	I've been looking at an item on television about social control at a construction company. I saw a lot of people fill out papers while they were doing checks. Mr. Secretary of State, perhaps an iPad can help. The government still lives in other times. Mr Secretary of State, this is a legitimate question which I support.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u35	Mr President, I fully support them. It is, of course, a specific question. After all, general figures on controls are collected. It is then necessary to examine in detail the way in which the business is taken out of the catering sector. This is an additional action that needs to be taken. That is one of the elements, Mr President, on this point, I support your question, Mr President, in order to ensure that these digitised processes are very different in order to be able to respond to your demand more quickly. I repeat that I put the question to the services. They are filtering out the elements. I repeat, I will deliver them to you as soon as I have them. However, this is one of the elements that I am very clearly referring to in the reform of the inspection services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u36	Mr Secretary of State, this is essential. We can see how many things do not have a white register: that is 6 000. So there are 6 000 businesses that compete unfairly, and we cannot follow that up. That is what you are answering today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u37	The case is different. We know how many cases they don't have. We also know that this is what the priority of controls is for. Once the checks are carried out, they will be re-established for a general check. Then I'll have to get them out. That's the absurdity of the system today, but I can't go around today's system. Again, that is one of the elements of the reform. If I have the numbers, I'll get them to you, because I'd love to find out about them myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u38	That says a lot. Either the services are not working efficiently, or the Secretary of State is withholding something. But I don't think it's the second. There's still a lot of work to be done in the government. To this day, we should know exactly what the situation is. Hand over my compliments to your services, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u39	Mr Secretary of State, this question also dates back a while ago. In May, before the summer recess, De Tijd reported that one in three employees were caught in undeclared work during checks on 980 disabled workers. These are workers who have already been subject to multiple medical checks. It is striking that the number of people checked represents only a very small percentage of the total of about 370 400 disabled people in our country. According to the RIZIV, it is particularly difficult to catch black-working disabled people. Almost all checks were carried out after a specific question or complaint. Whoever gets caught on undeclared work has to pay back their benefits. Last year, this amounted to EUR 2.5 million. Mr Secretary of State, what is your response to the RIZIV figures? Our country pays EUR 4.7 billion annually in benefits for workers who have been unable to work for more than one year. However, the number of checks on possible fraud remains relatively limited. How can that number be increased? How can we increase the chances of getting caught in the event of fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u40	Mr Raskin, the article by De Tijd was somewhat misleading, because it said that one in three controlled sick people would work in black. That's not true, of course. On the basis of data mining, specific checks were carried out on almost 1 000 workers. It is true that one in three was not in order. Invalid workers are checked in two ways. First of all, there's the medical check-up. In doing so, workers who are unable to work are subject to a check by medical counsellors. There is a reinforcement of the medical check-up from the seventh month of incapacity for work. That's a decision of our government. There is also a check for unauthorized activities, i.e. not specified. For this purpose, a data match is made between the RSZ declaration and the disability benefit received by the various control services. Concrete indicators of third parties are also used through the SIOD. An important point is that disabled persons may sometimes be authorised by the medical consultant to carry out part-time activities. That is also the philosophy used by Minister De Block, so that workers who are unable to work can sometimes be partially reactivated. That is a good way of reintegrating these workers into the work circuit. As a result of the recent budgetisation, we have taken measures related to this. For example, Mr De Block will adapt the reimbursement system of authorised activities during the illness and will also address the abuse of preferential schemes. I also take it with me in my 2017 action plan, because it is really a focus. We are seeing the rising figures, and I think we should stop them. We also need to do this so that people who are disabled can be reactivated or, if possible, continued to be involved in the work circuit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u41	You refer to the possibility of taking up a limited number of hours with the medical adviser's permission, without the benefits being taken away or reduced. That is a very good thing. Activation of disabled workers, even part-time, brings with it many benefits, not only in financial terms but also lately. As far as I am concerned, therefore, there is no criticism or concern whatsoever. We must, of course, ensure that those who can work are also effectively encouraged to work. Undeclared work cannot be tolerated, of course. It is a good thing that you have taken into account in the Action Plan the fact that the data is rising and that a flashing light is allowed there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u42	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, we are talking about highly skilled IT professionals who come mainly from India to Belgium. These are people who, in principle, must have a contract of employment in advance, on the basis of which they can obtain a work permit. However, several companies would bring many Indians here to replace expensive Belgian IT's, without having a work permit in advance. In that case, of course, there is a form of social dumping. At the committee meeting of 2 March 2016, your predecessor announced that his services would conduct an extensive investigation into compliance with the wage and working conditions under Belgian law and their possible impact on the work cards delivered. Can you tell us more about the state of play of this investigation? By when can we expect results? The number of posted Indian workers has increased rapidly in recent years, from just over 1 200 in 2007 to over 4 000 in 2015. The majority of these people are effectively employed in the IT sector. This large presence and sudden increase in figures raises at least a number of questions. Will you also organise additional targeted checks on social dumping in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u43	Mr President, Mr Raskin, the inspection service of the General Directorate of TSW of the FOD WASO is currently working, in consultation with the Flemish Inspection Service responsible for delivering work permits, on various dossiers in different provinces. Effective investigations have been carried out and they will continue to be carried out in the future because, of course, we find that the phenomenon has been given a job market, if I may put it that way. Several companies are really starting to take advantage of that. So that has our attention. The inspections actually focus on two points, on the one hand compliance with the wage and working conditions laid down in Belgian legislation and on the other hand compliance with the legislation on the delivery of work permits. That is, as you know, a regionalised matter. That is why we really need to pay attention to how that happens. It must be done correctly and there must be sufficient checks and balances at that level before such a work permit is issued. I cannot go into the specific investigations because they are still in progress. You also understand that the consultation and consultation of India that sometimes has to be done does not always go as smoothly as you know how much effort it sometimes takes to get the right information within the European continent, let alone when we ask for information outside Europe. I hope that it will be clear in the coming weeks and I will be able to report on this. These studies should normally be completed before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u44	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. I understand you haven't been able to give results yet. The planned timing is a few weeks but it can also be a bit longer. I won't pin you on that. In this respect, we are in happy expectation. Of course, this is a shared responsibility given the regionalisation and delivery of work cards at Flemish level. I therefore believe that the joint inspection to which you refer is more than appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u45	Mr Secretary of State, one of the points of action in your plan for fair competition in the construction sector is an evaluation of the legislation on public procurement with a view to combating social dumping. A working group was therefore set up at the initiative of your predecessor, Mr Tommelein. It should be responsible for implementing a number of very important measures in the new legislation. It concerns, among other things, the extension of contractor recognition to all subcontractors, the restriction of the vertical chain of subcontractors to two per specialty and the prevention of abnormally low prices. Who's in the working group? What is the status of the work? By when can we expect concrete results?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u46	The Public Procurement Act was adopted in Parliament on 12 May 2016. An amendment was also adopted which included the legal basis for the vertical chain of subcontractors and the extension of the contractor recognition. The working group, which was set up at the request of my predecessor, was, as it were, upgraded in the sense that the working group is now directly under the direction of the Prime Minister's cabinet. This includes the social partners in the construction sector and the staff of Minister Borsus and myself with a view to an integrated approach to the law on public procurement. That working group has already met several times. A number of issues have also been developed, such as the FVO on placement, which includes the procedure relating to the suppression of abnormally low prices, and the FVO on the implementation with a restriction of the vertical chain of subcontractors and the extension of the contractor's recognition. The intention is to provide the Public Procurement Commission with text proposals in good time, which will be required to deliver an opinion. We are very much in the process of clarifying the situation on the ground. That should be completed in a few weeks. We shall also inform the committee at that time. I think it is clear that we have really put the working party to work. We lay the whip on it to make sure that we are ready with the KBJVs as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u47	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. The working group is therefore at work. Results are expected in the short and medium term. I think it's important that you keep pushing. After all, the point of action to review public procurement legislation is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u48	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Raskin's 12049 falls within the competence of Minister De Block and was referred to the relevant committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u49	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, social fraud, like tax fraud, is an integral part of the government agreement. In order to sustain our social protection system, it is obviously necessary to ensure compliance with the rules and to combat certain abuses, in parallel with the fight against social dumping. In this context, you announced last June that you intend to activate a plan to combat social fraud in consultation with the CPAS, which estimates the number of cases of fraud encountered each year to be around 2,500. In fact, a point of contact had been created for CPAS agents, which remains an extremely sensitive area, both in view of the privacy element and its respect, but also in view of the protection of the agents themselves. The activation of a plan of struggle must be done in collaboration with the Minister of Social Integration and you have announced the organization of a joint round table with Minister Borsus. This consultation with the CPAS of our country in the context of the fight against abuses of financial aid from these same CPAS is essential, since it is actors on the ground that will come the information necessary for effective action in this field. You announced that the consultation would begin in the fall of 2016. We're there (or almost there). So what are the contacts already established with the CPAS federation? What further specific measures have been taken this year to ensure a better exchange of information between your services and CPAS services? According to what methodologies do you intend to involve CPAS staff more effectively in the fight against social fraud? Is there a requirement for information on initiatives by CPAS? When do you intend to introduce a new procedure for the exchange of information and data between your services and CPAS services?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u50	Dear colleague, thank you for these various questions. To be honest, at the cabinet level, we have not yet made contact with the CPAS federation. That is one of the things we still have to do. Indeed, we would like to address this at the round table we have planned, bringing together Mr Borsus and the various CPAS. We would like to put on the table the various aspects and elements that we are working on. First of all, let us clarify: the idea of having an exchange of views and collaboration with CPAS is not an obstacle to existing procedures and does not put them in jeopardy. Many things are already settled, but we need to improve, or at least examine, the different practices of CPAS. Thus, we will have the opportunity to improve the various exchanges of information between CPAS. I would like to address the issue of structured exchange of information and data, which has already been set up by the Social Integration PPS, and which has been operational since July 2014, with regard to fraud at decent wages, for example, An alert system exists, resulting from the automated cross-checking of data transmitted by a social integration PPS or a social integration PPS, and relating to the integration income granted by this CPAS, is in place. An audit is also carried out for each beneficiary of integration income to determine whether he or she is otherwise known or assisted by another social security system. It is also, in my view, an important aspect. As soon as such information is detected by the system, an electronic alert is sent by the SPP Social Integration to the relevant CPAS; this already provides a quantity of information to the various CPAS. The monitoring of these alerts by the CPAS is monitored by the SPP Social Integration inspection services. There are two links: the competence of the CPAS is to determine whether or not to grant allowances. We are therefore obliged to raise awareness of the phenomenon of social fraud among the various personnel involved in the Social Integration PPS. In addition, field checks are carried out with the various inspection services. When they meet a person who works on a construction site and receives an allowance, they fight this kind of fraud. I come to the various new measures. So we have a point of contact for fair competition, which already exists for individuals. But we would like to extend this point of contact to cities, municipalities and different CPAS. It's scheduled for the end of November. This will be a secure access. We will have to discuss this at the round table, it will be work for CPAS. In fact, if social fraud alerts are asked to reach the point of contact, it is also necessary to plan how to deal with them, at the level of the CPAS, by means of internal procedures. This is a very sensitive discussion. CPAS personnel who detect an element difficult to identify from the point of view of social fraud, at least question the person to examine whether everything is in order. It is important to discuss the different procedures. Because there is a relationship of trust between the CPAS staff and the person. The CPAS employee still has a better view of the various events in the field and detects much faster than my inspection services if one aspect is not in order. If, for the staff of the CPAS, there is no professional secrecy like the one that exists for lawyers and doctors, there is still a relationship of trust between the latter and the individuals who emigrate there. We need to look at how to deal with this reality. In case of detection of social fraud, it is the CPAS itself, and not the employee, who can decide to alert the point of contact.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u51	At this point, I don't really have a reply. I'll wait until you've had contact with the CPAS Federation to get back to the subject. We're barely in the fall, but it still lasts a few months. So we have time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u52	Mr Secretary of State, the fight against social fraud requires coordination at the federal level, in particular with your colleague from Social Integration, but also operational coordination and wide-ranging cooperation between the different levels of power, since this matter has been largely regionalised. My question is not controversial, but I cannot help but think of the words of the Walloon Minister of Local Authorities. Last year, he called for the federal to show "energy in the control of tax fraud instead of focusing solely on marginal cases, at the risk of falling into methods that recall somewhat more painful memories". Quite honestly, this statement struck me, because I was president of a CPAS for six years before becoming mayor. I am therefore well aware of the role of the agents working in the CPAS, particularly the role of social workers, of course. We will all agree that social assistance work is essential and that combating abuses in this area is, of course, about protecting our social security and, above all, about ensuring adequate assistance for the weakest and the poorest. Seeing things differently is putting your head in the sand. I come to my questions. Under what procedure do your services exchange information with the regional inspection services? Is there a plan to strengthen cooperation between federal and regional services in the fight against social fraud? Are new objectives set in this regard and, if so, what are they?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u53	Mr. Pivin, in answer to your first question, regional inspections are not part of the Social Information and Research Service (SIRS), but they are always invited to meetings of the IRS Steering Committee. So they're involved. In the district inspection units, there is already field collaboration with the various federal inspections and regional inspections. There is also the cooperation agreement, in force since 9 July 2010, between the Federal State, the Regions and the Communities, on the coordination of checks on illegal labour and social fraud. For example, in June 2016, SIRS already participated, with Beliris in particular, in the meeting of the working group on combating social dumping. I believe that SIRS really plays a key role in coordinating between the various public bodies. SIRS has already concluded numerous protocols, for example with the Facilitair Management agency of the Flemish Community, with Beliris, with the public service in Wallonia (the protocol is almost ready for signature), and also with the Régie des Bâtiments. Such protocols are concluded for better coordination in the field. As far as your second question is concerned, I have already consulted with Mr Weyts, who is the Minister of the Flemish Region responsible for mobility, in order to use the data of the various cameras. Here too, there are things to be done. We are currently examining how we can exchange these different data, under what constraints, with which protocols, in order to have access to certain information in order to improve the fight against social dumping. In addition, from 1 December, all municipalities and CPAS will have secure access to the contact point, as I said in response to the previous question. As far as your third question is concerned, the minimum number of checks to be carried out in sectors at risk, per judicial district, is fixed annually at the time of the evaluation of the action plan "Fight against social fraud and social dumping". We have asked the various borough cells that at least 28% of the checks give rise to a finding of infringements. The aim is to sufficiently target controls on dishonest practices. I think it's going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u54	I have no reply, Mr. Chairman, the answer is complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u55	Question No 12855 by Mr Clarinval is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u56	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, this is my final question. At the beginning of February, you signed the plan for fair competition in the transport sector. This was the culmination of a number of round tables which had taken place the months before. The sector is, as we all know, seriously affected by social dumping and unfair competition. Measures could therefore no longer be avoided. The plan contains 30 concrete actions to tackle the problem of social dumping vigorously. There are also 16 national action points such as the launch of a hotline for unfair competition, additional controls and better cooperation between the FPS Mobile Inspection Service, social inspections and customs. I have a specific question. How is the implementation of the plan and how many of the 16 national action points are in progress? On the other hand, what progress has not yet been made?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u57	Mr Raskin, this plan is an important means for us to work together with the various social partners, the social inspection services and the government. You also know that this is not my exclusive competence, which requires the cooperation of other fellow Members on certain measures. There is still a great deal of work to be done at European level. A number of measures have already been implemented. You have mentioned a number of them yourself. I believe we are making progress. We have a hotline of fair competition. There is a recruitment procedure for additional inspection staff. A joint flash check was carried out in the transport sector at the end of September. Vehicles of less than 3.5 tonnes were checked. This was one of the problems raised in the action plan. The Enforcement Directive was transposed into Belgian law. A second reading was adopted in September. A draft law on the Koelzsch judgment, which deals with the employment contract and the place of employment, was adopted by the Council of Ministers in October 2016. A first follow-up meeting was scheduled for which progress was made by the various relevant ministers and bodies. There is also ongoing consultation between the various inspection services, the social partners and the government on how to speed up a number of aspects. I list a number of things that have not yet been carried out. On the one hand, a tax shift has been introduced on the other hand, but on the other hand, additional measures are still under discussion. With regard to cabotage rules, Minister Bellot has drawn up a note. In addition, he is in contact with his European colleagues to make progress at the European level. We too are involved in this. Also with regard to tachographs, access to the profession and smaller lorries, notes were drawn up by Mr Bellot. We are making progress in all these areas. Some have not yet been implemented, but we are working on all these action points, or we are trying to make progress at Belgian but certainly at European level. I can also give you some paperwork on the action lines of the action plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u58	Mr Secretary of State, I can indeed see on paper what the situation is.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u59	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there are certain elements which I would like to mention which overlap what Mr Raskin and others have already said here because, of course, this is always the same subject. Here we are talking specifically about the app to combat social dumping in the construction sector. The 15-point plan has been launched to re-establish fair competition in construction and transport. Unauthorized low prices would be dealt with and there would be a limit to two links in subcontracting. Can you give an overview of the 15 actions you are planning and the timing for implementation? That may be in table form. How will the application of the app correct employer work? Is there any consultation with the competent control bodies? What's the timing for launching this app? The number of postings has increased by 76 % over the last four years. What do you think is the explanation for that? Are you prepared to revise the Posting of Workers system which ensures that the social security contributions of workers in the country of origin are paid?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u60	Mr President, Mr Geerts, thank you for these questions. Among the 15 actions we take in the plan of fair competition electrotechnical sector there are 11 national measures, 1 Benelux measure and 3 European measures. Some of these measures are, of course, in parallel with other action plans that have already been implemented. In my previous answers, I have already covered many of the issues that we have already been able to achieve and which also make up the implementation of this action plan. For the app correct entrepreneur and correct employee we have an approved budget sheet. We have carried out an initial study with the competent services to see how we are going to make this practical. In terms of timing, I foresee the first quarter of 2017 for the launch. Your third question is, of course, based on the figures of the European Commission, which shows that incoming postings have increased between 2010 and 2014. Of course, I do not have a crystal ball, but there seem to be some obvious reasons for that. Firstly, we are a small country with an open economy, situated at the crossroads and in the centre of Europe. Secondly, we have many foreign companies or foreign headquarters located in Brussels. That also contributes to this. Thirdly, we still have work to do in our labour market to fill in a number of bottlenecks. There is also an increasing use of posting as a solution. As a result, certain competences from abroad are available on our labour market. Fourthly, I do not put down seats or benches which also play the lower cost. If wage and working conditions are respected in Belgium, but social contributions are paid in the country of origin, there is, of course, a price difference. We have calculated this price difference for a number of sectors. Sometimes the difference isn't so bad, but sometimes it's significant. In reply to your last question, I am, quite frankly, following Mrs Thyssen's work. First of all, Mrs Thyssen makes sure that there is a clarification and a tightening under the multi-package label that she is working on. It initially elaborates this for a definition and clarification of working conditions in the country where people go to work, in order to avoid any ambiguity. The second part is, of course, an amendment to the social security regulation. In this respect, we are entering into a much more complex discussion. After all, the options are different. I also hear a lot of wild plans making the rounds. On the one hand, they encounter a number of legal, European objections and, on the other hand, a number of practical objections. If we are to apply the social security legislation of all the countries that are posting in Belgium, my inspectors must have 28 different laws in the field in order to be able to carry out the checks. Otherwise, they will never know whether or not a company complies with the rules. In view of the way in which the transfer of social security contributions should take place, a number of legal and practical problems arise. It is therefore primarily up to Mrs Thyssen to look at how the legislation can be revised at European level. I think that we will then have at least as much of a debate as our first proposal, towards the countries of Eastern Europe. We will have to look at how we can respond to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u61	Mr Secretary of State, with regard to the 11 national measures, we will see in your policy statement and in the budgetary tables what timing and priorities are being set.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u62	Mr Secretary of State, I am asking this question as a result of a targeted control of the judicial police and the road police into fraud software in order to circumvent the legislation on driving and rest periods. During the hearings we had on this subject, a representative of the police said that he was pleased to be able to raise the issue in Parliament, because he thought it was a major problem. He asked if the government could take a stronger stand against this. During these hearings, transport organisations indicated that they wanted to take part in this fight. They hoped that only a small percentage of the trucks would use that scams software. I was a little surprised at the results of that control. Is there indeed an increasing number of cases of fraud software to circumvent the rules on driving and rest periods? How many controls were effectively carried out on driving and rest periods in 2014, 2015 and 2016? How many truck drivers weren't in order with the driving and rest periods during those checks? One of the criticisms of the transport organizations was that police checks took a long time, while there is an economic factor involved. Can these controls be handled more quickly? What additional measures have been proposed in the field?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u63	Mr Geerts, first of all I would like to say that a large part of your questions fall within the competence of Minister Bellot. For more detailed information, you will therefore have to address him. The judicial police and road police have indeed recently discovered new forms of cheating software for the digital tachograph. I was able to hear that firsthand during the flash check we did. It's not obvious to find out. One almost has to disassemble the engine to see that there is shuffle software in it. The inspection services are now aware of this and are now actively looking for it. This is also an element in the fair competition plan. The joint checks shall not only check driving and rest periods, but shall also examine the operation of the digital tachograph. Inspection services may read the tachograph. There is also always a check to see if there is any shuffle software available. In the event of a suspicion, further action shall be taken. How many checks on driving and rest periods were carried out? In 2014, there were more than 28 000, in 2015 more than 29 000 and in 2016 until August around 18 000. Each time it appears that the number of infringements is around 8% to 9%. I think that is still significantly high. The data are not kept separately in the FPS Mobility statistics. So we had to puzzle there again. A normal police check, checking the regular on-board documents and reading tachograph data, takes about half an hour. However, if one has a suspicion of fraud via cheating software, the check may take one or more days. It is not obvious if everything is to be split up and checked how everything is going. We must therefore examine how we can meet the new needs. The measures to be taken to improve the protection of tachographs against fraud software require an adaptation of European legislation. As a European Member of Parliament, I have worked together with Saïd El Khadraoui to strengthen the legislation on digital tachographs. Minister Bellot has re-contacted the European Commission to highlight the issue and to call for an adaptation and tightening of the rules. Of course, additional initiatives have already been taken, through a European regulation, to enable the new generation of digital tachographs to read out remotely. That is one aspect of the solution. We are constantly confronted with new technical adjustments and at the same time with new technical possibilities for fraud. Hopefully, our services will be able to develop new technical ways of detecting this fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u64	Mr Secretary of State, I am going to deal with a sector other than construction. In the space of two years, the electrical engineering sector has lost 1,047 jobs in our country, which is significant in relation to the sector which represents 35,000 workers. The main cause is, once again, social dumping, and we can only deplore it. I read that you signed an agreement with the sector in September on 15 measures aimed at evaluating the new law on public procurement, strengthening the means of control and implementing an awareness campaign. Finally, you have set up a Benelux working group to limit the "Netherlands road", where temporary labour legislation favours social dumping in Europe. Mr Secretary of State, similar agreements have already been signed, in particular with the construction sector. The effects are slow to come and the sector continues to lose thousands of jobs. It is not enough for an agreement to be reached, it must be implemented and it is necessary to check whether it is appropriate. To do this, I have a few questions. In the agreement, you refer to the evaluation of the new law on public procurement. How can we assess it when it is not yet operational, since the royal decrees of execution have not yet been issued? When will they produce their effects and therefore when will this new law be effective? What, then, do we mean by the evaluation of the latter? You say that the means of control will be strengthened. Can you be more specific? Are you going to hire more staff and step up your controls? What will the awareness campaign consist of? What is the composition of the Benelux Group? Is it a forum for exchange of information and/or consultation? What role can this group play in the real fight against social dumping? What progress has been made so far in this group? Have the Netherlands made commitments to review its legislation on temporary employment, which has an impact on dumping?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u65	Mr Daerden, you know that a social dumping working group is under way, led by the Prime Minister's office, which is very active. He is busy formulating various concrete proposals for the implementation of a plan against social dumping in construction. I believe that certain details will come out, first of all with regard to the Royal Decree on the award of public contracts: we are working on a new royal decree with concrete proposals for texts that have already been forwarded to the Commission on Public Procurement. It's on its way. Consideration of proposals shall take place. The committee already delivered an opinion on 19 September. Something is already in place, as far as this point is concerned. There is also a royal decree on the execution of public contracts which requires an amendment of the existing royal decree. The concrete text was also forwarded to the Commission on Public Procurement. As regards the extension of recognition as an entrepreneur, four full-time recruitment was approved to strengthen the accreditation commission. With regard to your second question, the means for monitoring on the ground are strengthened on two aspects: first, 96 additional net controllers will be engaged by the government; and second, we are considering and submitting proposals for the reform of the inspection service. The aim is to have more opportunities and engagement in the field in the head of the various inspectors. This is done through better coordination between the different inspection services. There is also the awareness-raising campaign. This is important: we often talk about large public works, but different citizens also use, especially in the electrotechnical sector, people who are seconded or self-employed. With regard to this point, with the Prime Minister's Chancellor for example, the possibility of a media campaign with television spots, among other things, is being studied in order to raise awareness among the general public. We will also examine the possibility of concluding a charter with the various public companies, the different federations but also with the different cities and municipalities in Wallonia, Flanders to have this commitment on this side too. For the Benelux Group, the working groups are composed by the various representatives of the social inspection services and the Belgian, Luxembourg and Dutch authorities. One of the working groups is specifically dedicated to the problem of fraudulent acting offices. In fact, it has been observed that there are a lot of constructions coming from the Netherlands and that there is, in fact, a double detachment: the companies in the Netherlands and those working at home via the interim sector. But it is of course up to the Netherlands to see whether there is a violation of the existing legislation on interim offices. We are vigilant in this regard. We will also normally have a meeting in December with the ministries concerned to put this issue on the agenda of the Dutch government. The aim here too is to carry out more common cross-border controls and also to establish a coherent exchange of data. These are the two main problems that are now on the ground and need to be resolved, in order to strengthen our field inspection capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u66	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your response. If there are still many unknowns, there are good intentions. I hope that this will soon lead to a realisation either at the level of the Benelux Group or at the level of the awareness-raising campaign. I think all these steps are useful. It would be welcome if they were translated into the field. In this respect, you may refer to a charter with cities and municipalities. You're probably aware that at the internal level in the city of Herstal, we adopted a charter. We are therefore taken to be one of the first charters between the federal and a city and commune. Last, compared to the royal decrees, do you think that they could still be released by the end of the year on the enforcement of the law on public procurement?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u67	I'm answering your last question. Yes, we will make every effort to conclude these royal orders before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u68	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the unfair competition hotline has been operational for a little over a year and I think it is time for an evaluation. How many reports were there? Were there reports of similar subjects of citizens, businesses or organisations in other inspection services and social parastaals? In addition to the figures, I would also like to look at the content of the notifications. What were the types of reports and which were the subject of an additional investigation? Was the investigation positive in the sense that a regularisation, recovery or preparation of a report took place? The plan for fair competition in construction also provided for the creation of a central point of contact for social fraud, specifically for the social partners. We see in the field that the nature of the reports from the social partners is different from the general reports. I therefore believe that it is important to look at the feedback and follow-up given to those reports. Is that feedback system already in place or not yet in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u69	Mr President, Mr Geerts, since October 2015, the Fair Competition Communication Point has been operational for citizens and businesses. Currently, the follow-up phase, in which professional users, such as employees' and employers' organisations, as well as OCMWFs, cities and municipalities, are in a test phase. The connected users usually go through eID or specific forms. The reports from professional users are usually much more complete than the reports from citizens. We are looking at how to adapt the forms in order to obtain as complete information as possible on the notifications we receive. So far, some 7 000 notifications have been received. They are mainly reports of undeclared work and residential fraud. That seems to be the two main concerns. Approximately 7 out of 10 reports are included. At 30% information is missing from the beginning, for example names or other data, so that we cannot, for example, check where the facts occur. 70 % will continue and will be sent to the different services. Then it is up to the inspection services to decide how they deal with it. Feedback from the various services shows that a new dossier can be opened very often. The hotline is therefore useful and actually provides additional information which is very often difficult to obtain from the inspection services themselves. So it is a way to play a role, especially in the field of undeclared work. We are currently analysing the data in detail and an annual report will be drawn up shortly. Normally, the system also goes live for the professional users at the end of November, after the test phase. We must see to what extent it is actually being used. You have also just heard the discussion about how the OCMWFs and others will use the hotline.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u70	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. We will effectively wait for the annual report. We must indeed look at the quality of the reports. After all, there can be a lot of reports. However, if they are based on loose sand, the figure in itself does not make much difference. After all, the substantive aspect is important. This is why the professional users, such as the social partners, both employers and employees, are asking for this to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u71	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I have a question concerning the estimates relating to tax fraud and what the Court of Auditors has said about it. In the Court of Auditors' report on budgetary control, we read, I quote: 'The Court of Auditors has not obtained precise information to assess the relevance of these estimates. The EESC notes that the anti-fraud plans are consistent with each other, with the indication of new revenues. Moreover, the estimate of revenue is not always based on a detailed calculation. Moreover, in the absence of an effective monitoring system, it is difficult to evaluate the proceeds of these action plans. The book on social security, which we received in August and contains the differences between the estimated revenues and the results of the fight against social fraud in 2016, shows that the Court of Auditors' observations are confirmed. The estimated revenue was 1.8 million euros due to an optimal data match between the RVA and the then RVP in order to avoid unauthorised accumulations of unemployment and pensions. However, this brought only EUR 70 000. In addition, for many measures no figures are available or certain measures have not been implemented. I have the following questions. This leads us to conclude that better monitoring of income from the fight against social fraud is needed. I have already noted with satisfaction that your predecessor also pointed out this need in his policy statement. What actions have been taken in this area since then? What results have been achieved with regard to monitoring? How can you explain the difference between the estimated and the effective proceeds of the data matching between the RVA and the then RVP? Are there fewer abuses than expected or were there problems with the data matching? Where are these problems located? After all, I find it difficult to imagine that the services would be so far off with their estimates. In the meantime, what progress has been made with a number of measures proposed in 2015 but apparently not yet implemented? It concerns, for example, the exchange of information between the then FEP and the FPS Justice in relation to detainees who are entitled to an IGO. Has that been carried out by now? Is that running? Then, for example, there is the replacement of the paper check card with an electronic card, linked to the identity card in the event of temporary unemployment. How's that going?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u72	Mrs Lanjri, it is indeed a very complex matter to monitor the proceeds from the fight against social fraud. I have already mentioned this in previous debates. We are on one side with an administrative hatch and on the other side with fines and sometimes with a penalty hatch. All these elements must therefore be brought together. This is one of the elements that has been effectively discussed and discussed for a very long time in the task force for the reform of inspection services. After all, we should not only talk about how much it is going to cost, we should also look at how we can implement the standardisation of processes within and between the various inspection services. We must also ensure that traceability within the various services is optimised and standardised. In this way, we hope to gain a better understanding, including between and within the various services, of what is being done in this fight against social fraud. Having said that, the action plan of my predecessor and myself has made sure that the budgetary targets, which are always imposed on us, are achieved. For 2015, it was even EUR 180 million, an increase of 30%. I believe that we are doing at least our part of the budgetary work in this area. I agree with you that we should make this an effective priority in order to increase traceability, follow-up and collection rates. This was effectively one of the biggest debates in the discussion on the reform of inspection services. As for your second question, it is important to say that it was certainly not a problem of data matching. This data exchange also takes place regularly and frequently between other services. You are right that the budgetary impact of this data matching was rather disappointing. On the other hand, the fact that there is little profit from this means that there are apparently few problems. There have been few anomalies from this data matching. So there was little follow-up to that. We actually have a discrepancy there between what my services had expected of income and what we were able to achieve effectively. It is important to note that other services, such as the RVA, in addition to the cross with the pension register, also carry out or have performed other crossings. These include cumulations of unemployment benefits, interruption benefits, notifications of incoming activities as an employed or self-employed person and the combination with sickness or invalidity benefits. A previous question also explained this. With these crossings, we try to identify and address as much as possible the cumulations between different benefits or between work and a benefit. It also explores ways of simplifying the complexity of the data flow. We also note that we still have a lot of work to do in this area. In addition, the different services should be given new opportunities to ensure that data flows are better coordinated. Your third question concerns the exchange of information between the National Pensions Office and the FPS Justice Department. There was a project at the time. There is also a discussion going on with the privacy committee, for which I am also competent and which should authorise the data matching. You quoted two examples of measures that have not yet been implemented. Together with my colleague, however, I urge you to work on its implementation as soon as possible. For example, we had to draw up a regulatory framework for the introduction of the electronic control card for the temporary unemployed. That framework entered into force in August 2016. For example, we have also had to develop a regulatory framework for the development of new information technology applications. A concept version has now been completed for this framework and a test phase is under way to find out how a number of elements can go live and be performed in reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u73	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. To begin with, you say it's now in a test phase. When does that test phase end and will it really go into inserting? Can you tell me about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u74	I think that'll be by summer. The test phase is still ongoing. We still have to analyse and adjust. So that's going to be end quarter 2, beginning quarter 3. We hope to be able to achieve this next summer at least.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u75	I am surprised, then, that there is such a large gap between the estimate and the effective yield. That is why it is, of course, an estimate. An estimate is an estimate, but the difference between the EUR 1.8 million that you thought you could get out of fraud and the final result of EUR 70 000 is enormous. I hope that our administration will make better estimates in the future. I do not think anyone has anything to gain from high estimates that no one believes to make the budget look good, and it turns out that it doesn't yield a tenth of them. On the other hand, I am glad that it appears that the abuses are less serious than was initially thought. But can one be so wrong? I hope that you will instruct your administration to give a more accurate estimate in the future, possibly on the basis of samples. Those samples can then be extrapolated to the whole country rather than estimates which are very unrealistic and which may also give rise to unbelief in future estimates.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u76	I agree with the analysis. Our estimates must be as correct as possible, but they remain estimates. In this case, we have found that the initial estimate was inadequate and that we need to continue from November onwards. I am trying with my fellow ministers Mr Peeters of Work and Mr Bacquelaine of Pensions to see how we can expand the system, because then, perhaps by catching up, we will be able to make things right again. We must continue to work on the exchange of information within and between the services so that the doubles and fraud can be dealt with and removed in this way. This is also a responsibility of the various colleagues, who must encourage their services to cooperate. Combating fraud remains an essential point for the government, not only for budgetary reasons, but also for ensuring that fraud ceases to exist in the field. As far as benefit fraud is concerned, we can certainly go a step further with the data from the public authorities. I therefore regularly call on my fellow Members to cooperate in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u77	Mr Secretary of State, I have heard that a bilateral agreement has recently been concluded with Bulgaria in the context of the fight against social fraud and social dumping. That was an ambition of our committee. To this end, I have tabled a resolution together with Mr Clarinval and the other groups of the majority. It was also the ambition of your predecessor. We were of course in favour of this and we are pleased that concrete steps have now been taken and that cooperation with the countries of Eastern Europe will be implemented in this way. It is clear that the monitoring of compliance with European legislation is not always evident in practice, and that cooperation with certain countries is certainly advisable. In the agreement with Bulgaria, it was agreed that Bulgarian and Belgian inspection services would better check whether employers pay social contributions in the country of origin. In addition, it would be possible, for example, to check whether Bulgarian workers receive benefits in their own country and whether they are false self-employed. When will the agreement with Bulgaria take effect on the ground? Are certain preparations needed for this? In what way will the control of bogus self-employment of Bulgarian workers differ from the current way of working? What will change in the field of the A1 forms for Bulgarian workers? What elements have convinced Bulgaria to conclude the agreement? In other words, what are the benefits of the agreement for Bulgaria, apart from the fact that it will obviously benefit Bulgaria if more social contributions can be collected? You have the ambition to conclude similar agreements with other countries, including Romania and Poland. In the meantime, what progress has been made with the negotiations with these countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u78	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my question is with that of my colleague. On 5 October last, an agreement was signed with Bulgaria, which we can only rejoice at since this country is an important provider of workers. This is a question of improving cooperation in the fight against social dumping, particularly with regard to the payment of contributions. Mr Secretary of State, could you give me more information on the content of this agreement, particularly as regards the new tools that will be implemented. In October, another bilateral agreement was signed with France. Is the content of the agreement the same as that to which I have just referred or are there other specificities? Can you give me more details about its content? My colleague mentioned Romania, Poland, which are two important countries. I understand that contacts are made with these two countries. When do you think you can reach an agreement? Poland is known to be a rather reluctant country when it comes to revising the European directive. Do we, however, make progress? More generally, do you think that these bilateral agreements could move the lines and allow for a form of convergence and, therefore, an adaptation of European texts?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already mentioned, we have made contact with Germany, France, Bulgaria, Romania, Poland and Portugal. So we had an exchange of views with these six countries. The aim is to reach an agreement with the countries most likely to cooperate with us. But, as you said, it is easier to work with some countries than with others. I met Mr Thorben Albrecht in July in Germany, Mrs Myriam El Khomri on 21 September in Paris, Mrs Vera Ossinova on 4 October in Bulgaria, Mr Dragos Pâslaru on 13 October in Romania and, at the same time, the Portuguese Secretary of State. So here's for the meetings we've already had. A visit to Poland is scheduled for early December. On 4 October the Cooperation Agreement was signed with Bulgaria and on 13 October with Mrs El Khomri. What's changing on the property now? Two things are important here. Firstly, the agreement contains a clear political commitment to improve cooperation on the ground. This was rather difficult in the past, because even in cooperation, many countries were not prepared to do anything, and it was just a paper-based cooperation, of which nothing came into effect in practice. Now there is a clear commitment from the government to do something about it. What we will do in the first instance is look at what the inspection landscape looks like in our country and in Bulgaria and what parties we need to bring around the table in order to work out a number of concrete things. Secondly, we have agreed on this, and the first contacts are now being established to develop joint workshops on bogus self-employment and post-bus companies, on the basis of what our inspection services need to carry out checks. So we have made a very concrete list of the questions asked by our inspection services. This will be discussed point by point with the services concerned on the other hand, in order to deal effectively with the problems. Until now, these problems have not been recognised and so we could not start a discussion on how to solve them. Furthermore, there is a clear commitment to better exchange information. To this end, we need to discuss, inter alia, computer systems and the standardisation of information. There has been a very clear commitment in the agreement with Bulgaria to take the first steps in this area as well. First contacts have also been established for this purpose, and the technicians must now examine what is possible. The debate on the implementation of the French agreement has even taken a step further. We talked to Mrs. El Khomri. The ideal would be a solution at European level with a database accessible to all inspection services. This would avoid sending letters for the exchange of information. There would be direct access to data from different countries. Together with Mrs El Khomri, we have started discussions to consider, within the framework of the strengthening directive, that a few countries, four or six, are already creating this database to enable a better direct exchange of information on the various issues at European level. I think we've taken a big step forward. I also think, I dare say here, that this has also changed the mentality in the discussions on Mrs Thyssen's proposals. What do we do? As we conclude these agreements, we are also trying to indicate what we intend to do. This is primarily to deal with the real fraud associated with posting, namely the failure to respect wage conditions, false self-employment, post-bus companies, the non-payment of social contributions in the country of origin. This can be done perfectly, if there is good cooperation, under and with the current legislation. We want to be able to move forward and convince those countries that they also miss out on social contributions. I come regularly on the ground and sometimes find that workers from Poland, Romania or Bulgaria work here for two to three months without being paid and return home with not such beautiful stories. In the context of cooperation, too, we can take steps forward, and that is what they can do. They will have to understand that, if they are not prepared to deal with the cases of social dumping together, our country will lose support for the open market and the posting of workers. They are, of course, afraid of this, because their businesses depend on openness in the European internal market. That is what they can do if they come up with a clear and concrete proposal for action in the field, in which our inspection services can also join in to deal with serious social fraud and social dumping. On the other hand, they also realise that, in the light of what Mrs Thyssen is doing, a step forward will have to be taken. This can be a win-win situation for both their employees and their businesses, as well as for our consumers and businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u80	Mr Secretary of State, did you answer my question about false self-employment or did I miss it? Is the approach to the bogus self-employment of the global approach in the legislation on bogus self-employment different? That's what I want to know. Will that be an extra point? How is that gonna be any different than before? We used to have control over bogus self-employment and have a law on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u81	It is true that we have a law in this area, but false self-employment is extremely difficult to control. We are seeing new phenomena emerging and, in order to tackle the new phenomena, we need information from the country of origin, for example with regard to post-bus companies, the cooperating partners in business. Are those people who have one share or who have multiple shares? One of the commitments in the protocol is to seek better cooperation in this area. After all, we know that our law is particularly difficult to implement if we do not get the data from the countries from which they come. There are very clear rules for the transport sector and other sectors, either in our Belgian legislation or in European legislation. But they are uncontrollable if we do not get the information from the countries from which they come.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u82	I hope that the agreement will have concrete effect on the ground as soon as possible. You have not yet given a date, but I understand that comparisons are still being made in workshops and that you cannot give a concrete answer to my first question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u83	I can clearly say that a SPOC has already been appointed in both countries today. However, the exchange of information often also requires technical aspects. For this reason, working parties shall meet. With regard to the exchange of data, we must also provide a legal framework. That's the next step we'll take.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u84	All right, we'll follow the file closely. I hope that you will be able to achieve results in this, because that is good, also for our country, in order to safeguard many jobs. Many jobs are now being lost as a result of social dumping and I hope that we will be able to do something about it effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u85	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your response. In fact, these two agreements, to take over that of Bulgaria and that of France, are primarily political. I think this is an important step. There is, of course, a need to go further in the implementation of procedures on the ground or in the actual implementation of procedures. I have two small supplementary questions. Are there any plans in these agreements for an evaluation or monitoring to put a little pressure on the actors on the ground and thus make a concrete return? Are these agreements sufficiently public as to have a copy? Finally, I agree with you that there is a need for a single database, starting with a form of enhanced cooperation between a few States which, as we move forward, could grow and influence the approach to the subject at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u86	Mr Daerden, yes, it is a political commitment at first, but concrete elements are already being implemented, for example the SPOC. This means that direct communication is now possible between the two inspection departments, the two administrations. This is necessary in order to produce more concrete elements. In addition, we have already provided files, with a view to defining the concrete points that posed a problem for inspection services. Who should we talk to to clarify the situation? An additional concrete step has been taken. I believe that, for example, when exchanging information, we must be sure of the existence of a legal basis. This requires a treaty. It's a next step. But to be able to achieve this, and to conclude such an agreement between the two services, we must clarify the situation between them. This is a debate that we are conducting, for example, for the time being with Germany. We are talking about a treaty, but that means that on both sides the legal elements are in place for this exchange of information. So we are working in stages, but we are still moving forward. The various countries have the will to continue this exercise and to achieve concrete results.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u87	Mr Secretary of State, at the end of September you indicated in a statement that the social inspection services had carried out flash checks in the transport sector. These inspections took place in 19 locations in Belgium. Some 100 employees and fifty-five self-employed were checked. Can you give us the complete results of these controls? Last year, unannounced checks showed that one in three transport companies were in breach. What about this year? Finally, Minister Peeters would be preparing a bill to combat social dumping in the transportation sector. I am somewhat surprised that he is the one who takes care of it and that you are not associated with it, unless you are informally involved. Are the results of the controls used for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u88	Mr Daerden, thank you for your question. More than five hundred companies and more than two hundred independents were audited. For the former, the results reached 20%; for the latter, 15%. These are impressive figures, especially since some controls had been announced. This means that one in five companies is not in order in terms of national and European regulation. It was not yet possible to get the 2016 figures in time, but if we have the results, we will pass them on. My firm is also very closely involved in the drafting of the bill transposing the Koelzsch decision. That is what we did at the government level a few weeks ago. This clarifies what we need to do in Belgian law. It is a law, you know this better than I do, which is directly successful and directly relevant to the transport sector. It also provides tools to inspection services. We are always attentive to see if there are any other political measures that we can take. For the transport sector, the situation is very difficult. If we can take possible action at European level, compatible with European directives, we will do so. Mr Bellot and I are discussing these initiatives at European level, particularly on cabotage. We are looking together at what is still possible at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u89	Mr.President, Mr.Secretary of State, in 2015, a report commissioned by Minister Jan Jambon demonstrated that one in four custodians did not comply with the legislation in force. The private security sector occupies almost 16,300 jobs in Belgium, but is strongly affected by social fraud, such as false self-employment, illegal work, underpaid staff, etc. At the end of September 2016, you signed an agreement with private security actors to try to combat these phenomena. Mr Secretary of State, what actors were involved in drawing up this cooperation agreement? What measures are in place in this agreement and what procedures will they change? What is planned in terms of monitoring, prevention and awareness? How will the measures contribute to a better fight against social fraud in this sector? A point of exchange of information between the inspection services and the interior will be created. What type of information will be exchanged? In your opinion, what added value does this trading point bring to the fight against social fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u90	Thank you for your question. The cooperation agreement in the caretaker sector has, as has been done for the other sectors, been concluded between the Ministers of Security and the Interior, Jan Jambon, and myself, the numerous social inspection services, the Internal SPF and the various organisations of workers and employers. Everyone was around the table to discuss and determine an action plan. You know the reasoning behind the design of this type of action plan. This is a cooperation agreement involving simultaneously information and prevention, detection of repressive actions and different sanctions. For prevention and information, actors are expected to be genuinely aware of the need to combat fraud. Discussions with the various inspection services have already shown that there has been an improvement on the ground in recent years, but more pressure needs to be put on the way to eliminating social fraud and the unfair competition that is still very present in the sector. For the detection and enforcement component, we will ensure that there is better collaboration between the different inspection services. I am also referring to the ongoing reform to improve efficiency on the ground. Here too, we talk with the different actors. There is also a coaching dimension to take care of. The various employers have committed themselves. They know the rules and must follow them. Therefore, the argument, according to which they did not know, is no longer admissible. Other elements of the protocol form the basis for more and targeted controls in the sector. There is better data sharing and also better collaboration between actors on the ground. This should also encourage practices that lead to more controls and information exchange on the ground. To this end, we have designated permanent contact points between the various parties that have signed the agreement. These contact points will have information while respecting the privacy legislation that is also part of my jurisdiction. With these points of contact, we also have the possibility to manage more effectively the parameters which are the subject of fraud and social dumping and which are in force in the sector. At this level, we are also trying to conduct the controls in the action plan. We have taken a step forward with the creation of these contact points by clarifying, among other things, elements in the employer's and employee's head and inspection services. All this will improve efficiency on the ground to combat social fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u91	Thank you for this additional information. We will have the opportunity to come back to this and the others, for the follow-up of the procedures put in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u92	An analysis is planned each year to review developments and identify additional elements to be considered. The world is changing. An analysis therefore takes place every year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic508x.u93	The meeting is adjourned.
