ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u1	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, there are some issues related to our work and our vacations that go back some time ago. We come back to the subject of a question tabled last May in connection with the point pension. Indeed, the National Pension Committee met on Monday, 9 May, to discuss this issue. On this occasion, the Federal Pension Service and INASTI made a presentation and concluded that the point system would "cost more for little", highlighting a series of difficulties, disadvantages and a cost for moving to the point pension. We had an opportunity to discuss it on the RTBF plateau. In this regard, Minister, what is your status with this point pension project? You had defended its usefulness in taking account of penitibility. In this regard, it may be possible to establish a link with the current state of the art. Are you still convinced that point pension is the system that best integrates the notion of penitibility and what integration? Indeed, would penitibility generate more points and thus a more extensive pension or points to leave earlier? This is one of the questions that arises in penitibility. This is an opportunity to take stock with you on this topic.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u2	(...) This subject is currently the subject of discussions within the National Pension Committee in accordance with the Government Agreement. It was on my initiative that the Federal Pension Service and INASTI were invited to participate in the discussions at the LWOP to discuss how the point pension could be implemented in practice. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the discussions on point pension, to which the Chairman of the Advisory Board is associated, are obviously not over. It is therefore difficult to reach a decision even before the National Pension Committee has given a final opinion. However, the structural reforms of our pension system are not conditional on the introduction of the point pension and can therefore take place – and already are – within the current framework. The point pension is a new method of accounting for pension rights, which is very useful not only in the context of continuous monitoring of the social performance and financial sustainability of our pension system, but also in the context of the enhanced harmonisation of the various pension systems. It now appears that most young people who embark on a professional career are willing to move from one scheme to another. It is therefore not unnecessary to work on a system that makes it easier to harmonise pension rights. That's why I invited Mr. Frank Vandenbroucke, the chairman of the academic board – the new name of the Pension Reform Commission – and the deputy heads of our pension institutions to continue to reflect on the implementation of the point pension. This will include ensuring that the transition to a point system does not call into question – this is one of the concerns of the administration – the increased readability offered today by mypension.be. As for the budget necessary for the introduction of the point pension, nothing has yet been defined at this stage. I recall that the system will come into force in 2030. With regard to the incise on penitibility, I have said several times that it can be expressed in the form of points. Therefore, reforms must already be planned today in the perspective of the point system. Having a "penitibility account" in the form of points seems interesting to me. And to respond more directly to Mr Daerden's last remark, I would say that, for me, penitence can be expressed by allowing the worker either to leave earlier or to leave with a higher pension. Points can be translated in both ways. But this is a debate that has yet to take place in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u3	Thank you for your answers, Minister. I understand that the reflection continues and that there is no definite timing, given the deadline of 2030. I understand that you will pay particular attention to readability. It seems to me essential that there should be a system that the people concerned can understand at best. The point system has other aspects, which we will not go back to now. And as far as penitibility is concerned, I think it is important that the system allows workers to leave the pension earlier if they are in health problems, for example, and not to have a higher pension. In your mind, the point system would not block this possibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u4	Mr President, Minister, this preliminary draft of the joint pension was announced prior to the leave but did not come to the table of Parliament. It is obviously a project that we are concerned about and that risks fundamentally changing the approach to public service pensions and changing the current principle that everything is considered to be years of statutory status. In pre-projects or in any case depending on the echoes we may have, the measure would be retroactive, particularly for those officers whose appointment would take place from October 9, 2014. Is it your intention to establish a retroactive character? If that is the case, the amount of the pension of the appointee will be affected, so they will lose money. Is it not contrary to Article 23 of the Constitution and its standstill effect, which protects the rights to social security? There is also the concept of compensatory measures with the second pillar. Are you in the logic that both measures will apply at the same time? What compelling reason would it justify this retroactivity and legally immigrate it? Finally, where are we in the negotiations, in the social dialogue? You were talking about financial incentives, in any case it was mentioned in discussions on the subject. What would be these financial incentives? On the basis of which budget could they be introduced?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u5	Minister, it is important for civil servants' pensions to be combined not only for the number of years, periods as statutory and contractual officials, but also for a supplementary pension to be built up for the contractual period. I have heard that you are working on this more specifically, Minister. According to press releases, a regulation would apply from 1 July. At the same time, you would take measures to avoid abuse, because officials would not be appointed or promoted until the end of their career in a higher degree, in order to receive a higher pension. Perhaps you could tell me how often such a thing happens. Moreover, there is already the measure which has not been used for the last five years but for the last ten years, which has already flattened it. So that certainly can't be the only cause. In any case, I think it is important to examine the effects for those who are already retired or are about to retire and have other expectations. Minister, on what scale does the phenomenon of civil servants being designated as statutory under contract during the last five years before their retirement after a long career, which is sometimes referred to in the press, occur? What percentage of the total number of appointments is this annual? In what way will you avoid that pensioners would still be subject to a retroactive change in their pension amount? Or aren't you planning on doing that at all? It's important to make that clear. I have also always said that when a new pension scheme, in particular the mixed pension, is introduced, contractual persons must have the opportunity to build up and receive a serious supplementary pension. You once, after one of my other questions, committed yourself to linking the two together. It is important that the two are clearly linked. This requires that such a supplementary pension can also be built up. If one decides to let the numerator run from today and thus offers the opportunity to build a supplementary pension from today, then those who have been contracted for 20 years will not have much to gain, unless the supplementary pension is built up retroactively. The latter immediately raises the question of what with the corresponding adjustments? Another question is how high the additional pension is going to be. I am very pleased that you already think that 3% of supplementary pension is an important recommendation to the private sector. Does this also apply to the public sector? In what way would that be achieved? What will be the stakes for that? To what extent will such a supplementary pension compensate for the loss of that statutory pension that one would have had as an official? I suspect that there are also calculations on this that can give clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your questions, which will allow me to give some clarifications on this fairly fundamental reform which has been demanded for several years by the three Unions of Cities and Municipalities in order to guarantee the long-term financing, in particular, of pensions granted to statutory staff under local authority. To Mrs Becq, who is questioning me about the extent of the phenomenon of late appointments, I can say that the phenomenon is very different from one entity to another, but overall the phenomenon tends to worsen. After all, the average age at which local authorities are appointed is constantly increasing. For example, in 2014, the average age was 41 years, and in 2015 it was 43 years. A quarter of the appointments are made after the age of 45. The situation is such that many local authorities, with the entry into force on 1 January 2017 of the regularization contribution – which is different from the accountability contribution and which is provided for by the Act of 24 October 2011 – should have abandoned the appointment of their contractual staff. The law provides that in the event of an appointment occurring more than five years after entry into service as a contract, the local entity is liable to the consolidated fund for the basic contribution of 41.5% on all contractual services prior to appointment. The draft law on the introduction of the mixed pension abolishes the regularisation contribution. Local authorities wishing to appoint their staff are therefore free to continue to do so, provided that the appointment will no longer allow the career to be taken into account as contractual for the calculation of the public sector pension. With respect to the retroactivity issues of the draft legislation implementing the mixed pension, I must point out that the date of October 9, 2014, beyond which appointments no longer allow for the consideration of the career provided as a contract, is the result of the government agreement. The draft law is currently subject to social consultation. It has already been clarified by my representatives on Committee A that this date could be reviewed. Retroactive changes in pensions already granted should be avoided. As regards the link between the mixed pension and supplementary pensions for public service contractors, I would remind you that it is the result of the government agreement itself, which provides that, in parallel with the introduction of a mixed pension - an employee's pension for both years as a contract and a public pension for years as a statutory pension - the government will adapt the current legal framework for supplementary pensions so that public administrations and public enterprises are encouraged to develop a supplementary pension scheme for public service contract staff. At the meeting of the Committee A on the preliminary draft law on the introduction of the mixed pension, to which the federated entities were invited, it was agreed not only to reaffirm the link but also to add the adjustments to the legal framework of supplementary pensions to the preliminary draft law. In particular, the draft law would provide an incentive to encourage local authorities to set up and develop a supplementary pension scheme of a sufficient level for their contractual staff, as well as an adaptation of the Act of 28 April 2003 on supplementary pensions, to ensure that its scope is extended to the public sector as a whole. Each public employer shall, of course, remain competent to determine the amount of the supplementary pension he wishes to offer to his contractual staff. The Federal State will set a good example, as from 2017, the contractual staff of the various administrations under its jurisdiction will be able to benefit from a supplementary pension as is the case for a large number of employees in the private sector. An annual budget of EUR 32 million has been set aside to guarantee the payment of a premium equivalent to at least 3% of the remuneration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that there is an opening in relation to an adjustment of the text as to the logic of retroactivity. I didn't hear a timing for the tabling in Parliament. Do you have any idea when this might happen? By the end of the year?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u8	Normally, yes, but a second reading has yet to take place in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u9	In relation to this logic of retroactivity, we will have an opportunity to discuss it at that time, but I believe that if it were to be maintained, it would be totally unfair, beyond the legal fragility that could lead to the text. As regards the "compensation" for years as a contract by a second pillar, I agree with my colleague. If we talk about people who now have 30-35 years of career as a contract worker, the payment of a bonus to "compensate" is likely to be impeccable by the local authorities. I am thinking in particular of them because the single premium to recover is unpayable. There will undoubtedly be an impact on the amount of pension they would have had.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u10	Which will be superior anyway to what he would have had. Because he's not going to be named, you know that. You have to be very clear. The regularisation contribution which takes place on 1 January 2017, if the law is not changed and the mixed pension is not introduced, means that all those who have been contractually employed for more than five years in a commune, and who have not been appointed, will no longer be appointed, because the municipalities will not be able to pay.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u11	It's an a priori you have.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u12	The municipalities will not be able to pay. This would put all the municipalities in bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u13	Between a possibility of doing so and starting from the a priori that they will not, or an obligation to do so, these are two different things. There is no obligation to do so. There may be a targeted strategy...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u14	If they have a supplementary pension, they will have more than if they had stayed on contract without being appointed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u15	Without being appointed. It is clear that even for two-three years there is a little second pillar, it is true that it is more than no second pillar. But compared to the appointment, it's less.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u16	In fact, I will reintroduce the possibility of appointing by removing the regularization fee. So people will be much more named than before, eventually.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u17	They're not gonna have anything more.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u18	Yes, they will have a higher pension, because they will have a mixed pension. Part of a contract and part of a statutory.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u19	Mr President, I have parallel observations. I hear that there is a possibility of a shift with regard to this retroactive force, which is important. Moreover, it should be borne in mind in this system that people who start working with a view to appointment are first internships for a year. In this respect, there is concern about the retroactive application of the system. The date of 9 October may be postponed. My concern is also that someone who would be appointed at a later age, after a longer period as contractual, can count on less pension. I hope that transitional measures will be in place and that this can be taken into account. I understand that you will give some incentives to the local authorities to go to that 3 %. Not all municipalities can cough up 8% or 4%, as some cities can.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u20	Minister, in a number of cases the Federal Pension Service (FDP) recalculates the right to the income guarantee for the elderly (IGO). If there is a change in the means of subsistence or in the composition of the family, this may lead to an investigation of duties. If the facts show that the person concerned has wrongly received certain amounts, this could lead to recovery. Figures I have requested from your services show that around 105 000 people in our country benefit from an income guarantee for the elderly. In how many cases is recovery now taking place? The figures I have at my disposal are, in my view, striking and worrying. In 2013, 1 749 files were recovered for a total amount of EUR 3.8 million, in 2014 they were 2 355 files for a total amount of EUR 3.4 million and last year 5 764 files for a recovery of EUR 4.1 million. If we look at the rate of collection, how much has actually been collected from those amounts, I get an average of 50 %. I find these amounts striking and worrying, especially the increase in the number of files and the number of amounts to be recovered. That's why I have the following questions. First of all, what are the most common facts on which recovery is being carried out? Secondly, can you explain the annual increase since 2013, both the number of files and the amounts to be recovered? Thirdly, do you think there is a need for a kind of information campaign, in which people are reminded of the possible consequences of recovery if they do not indicate certain issues? Finally, think about a system in which the granting and possible subsequent termination of the IGA could be automatic, cf. the recommendation of the Pension Office in the most recent annual report?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u21	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye, the main reasons for recovery are as follows. First, the non-predicted stays abroad of more than 29 days, whether consecutively or not, per calendar year, without prior declaration or proof of residence which has been returned incompletely and/or late or not. Secondly, the failure to take into account the number of grandchildren, whether their own or not, in the distribution with the number of legally resident persons, since the legal cohabitation adjustment in force since 1 January 2014. If you wish, my employee can provide you with the legal reference. Other reasons are the lack of declaration of movable property and the control of estates. The increase in the number of refunds is due to the amendment of the legislation which, since 1 January 2014, provides for stricter control by the Federal Pension Service as regards the conditions of residence of the IGO in the context of the fight against social and tax fraud. With regard to those conditions of residence, a campaign was conducted by the FPD in 2014 concerning the consequences of non-refunding or late return of the residence permit. In addition, the FDP clearly draws the attention of the IGO beneficiaries to their obligation to indicate any change in their financial resources. The importance of a proper declaration is stressed, both during the examination of the means of subsistence and in the notification of the decision on the granting of the IGA. If the life certificate is not returned within 35 days, the payment of the IGO will be automatically suspended. For the rest, these files are difficult to automate as they require manual treatment in particular when changes are required. The family and financial situation of each beneficiary shall be thoroughly examined. There is therefore no question of automation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your full and clear answer. I remember that stricter control is the cause of the increasing number of cases. With regard to the processing of those files, I find in practice that it often takes a long time before a recovery decision is taken. As a result, large sums of money often have to be repaid, which sometimes leads to financial problems. I would ask you to speed up this administrative procedure. The composition of the family is a fact that the government knows, so there should be more rapid action. As far as the forms themselves are concerned, I often see such forms, which are very complex and difficult for many people to fill out, which means that they have to ask for help from the OCMW or a lawyer to fill out those forms. I would like to draw your attention to this, Minister. The IGO can only be granted in cases where it is justified. If there are any changes, one has to recover, but I think that we need to act more quickly and in a more modern way. I think there's room for improvement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u23	Minister, this question also dates back to June 2016. However, it is still topical. If that is not the case, you can certainly say that great progress has already been made in the dossier. A few months ago, you said that you would reduce and/or abolish the treated periods, especially for the pension calculation. Among other things, this was on the agenda of the Federal Pension Service Management Committee, but has suddenly been taken off the agenda again. You are well aware that the greatest victims, if they were to be abolished, or some of them, would once again be women. Minister, I have already told you that you do not like women. However, if you implement this measure, it is quite clear that you do not like the women. Figures show that more than half of a worker's career is composed of periods treated as such. Touching such periods means, therefore, that women's pensions are affected. We also know that pension payments are not high. The trade unions, women's organisations and the Women's Council have calculated that the average of a worker/worker is barely and not even less than EUR 700. I would also like to remind you once again that the pension gap between men and women, especially in that category, is 25%. For a modern state, that's unbelievable. That is why I have the following questions. Could you explain more about the proposal, whether or not to abolish the treated periods for the calculation? Are the plans related to all forms of equality, in particular career breaks, time credits, involuntary unemployment and illness, or are there certain types that and other types that will not be abolished? Is it about all the types of calculation for which equivalence would be reduced or abolished, in particular the minimum calculation and also the regular calculation? Is your plans for equalisation also subject to a gender test for the impact of the measure? In doing so, you will certainly see that there is a difference in effect between men and women. Finally, when can we expect the final plans in Parliament? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u24	Mr President, Minister, my question is very much in line with that of my colleague. The Plan Office has published a report on the size and composition of similar periods in the various pension schemes. This report highlights the importance of similar periods in the careers of our workers and especially our workers, as well as the large proportion of unemployment which is neither a voluntary choice nor a period of inactivity. This report has been prepared at your request. It is another step in your will to challenge similar periods. This may be a trial of intent, and I look forward to your answers on this matter. This is in addition to other measures that have been taken and will therefore further increase the impact on the amount of the pension. If this were to be the case, it would have a considerable impact on the workers concerned. They will have to work longer to receive a lower pension. Minister, do you intend to limit the assimilation of certain periods? If so, which ones? Will a project be on the table soon? In what timing? Is social dialogue under way? If it is to come, in what way? Given that women will be more heavily affected than men, are you going to have mechanisms to prevent discrimination?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, in accordance with the coalition agreement, I can confirm that there has never been any mention of such periods as periods of illness, disability, absenteeism, accidents at work, occupational disease, maternity rest, time credit, career break and motivated thematically to change leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u26	There has never been talk of abolition?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u27	I would point out that the only objective of the proposed assimilation measures is to finalise the reform undertaken by the previous government with regard to the taking into account of periods of unemployment, income and business supplements. The objective remains the same: to make better use of working periods in the calculation of the pension. Contrary to the rumours maintained, there is no question of abolishing or limiting in time the consideration of similar periods, neither for the normal calculation of the pension nor for the minimum pension. Only the basis of calculation taken into account for the assimilation of periods of unemployment and CCB could be changed, as was done under the previous government. Like all reforms in the area of pensions, the reform of taking into account certain treated periods will of course be subject to an analysis of gender issues. The draft texts relating to this reform will of course be submitted to the Management Committee of the Federal Pension Service as soon as they are about to be submitted. In particular, to answer Mr. Daerden's question about the study on assimilated periods, I know that this study was commissioned in order to obtain a clear and as complete overview as possible of the size and composition of assimilated periods in the three pension schemes. The data currently available for similar periods are rather fragmentary. The report of the Federal Planning Office shows that women's careers are proportionally more similar than men's (37 per cent versus 30 per cent), but if we look at the absolute figures, it appears that men have an average of 14 equivalent years compared to 11 for women. On average, therefore, the career of men is more similar than that of women. Attention: these are absolute figures; of course it depends on the length of the career. If we look at the composition of similar periods and take into account only periods of unemployment and pre-pension, it appears that these periods cover 47% of similar periods for men and 49% for women. So we are in almost the same proportions. In absolute terms, these two assimilations represent, on average, 6.58 years for men compared to 5.39 years for women.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u28	Minister, we have had this discussion a few times. The number of years a woman has worked is on average much lower than the number of years a man has worked. The figures you give are therefore irrelevant. One has to look at career years, which are on average much lower in a woman compared to that of a man, and within those career years the treated periods in a woman are much higher than in a man.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u29	That is a problem for my colleague, the Minister of Work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u30	For the woman who is retiring, it is not really important whether this is your problem or that of the Minister of Labour. It's her problem! If I have understood you correctly, you say that you will not be affected by the treated periods, but the periods of unemployment would be eligible. There, however, women score much higher than men again. Once again, with your measures, you will be very damaging to women.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u31	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u32	If I understand correctly, your intention is not to abolish or limit the similar periods which would be taken into account in terms of unemployment and in terms of complements undertaken, but to limit in the basis of calculation. Do you already have some basic calculation elements?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u33	Yes, these are the bases that were taken over by the previous government over the third period of unemployment, i.e. the minimum right, which is just over €23,000 a year, rather than the last fictitious wage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u34	And this, right from the beginning?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u35	Not necessarily.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u36	That remains to be negotiated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u37	That remains to be negotiated. I think it is always necessary to provide for a first period of unemployment where we work on the basis of the actual fictional wage or rather the last wage. It is fictitious in the sense that it is not worked.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u38	As for the timing, what will it be?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u39	We will come with that in 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u40	Mr President, in the comments and comments on the drafts on adjustments to the state budget, the Court of Auditors expressed some reservations about the revenue from Section 21, which is the revenue from pensions. During the budget negotiations in April 2016, you and the government decided to cut the pensions of civil servants. We have already heard a sample of this in the case of mixed pensions. The measures you proposed should result in savings of around EUR 11 million. The Court of Auditors noted at that time that no information on the proceeds of those measures was available. In addition, the Court of Auditors stated that, as those measures still need to be transposed into legislation, it is still uncertain whether they will be effectively reduced to effective expectations in the course of 2016. Minister, I must add that my question dates back to June 2016, which is why it seems a little late. However, we have not had the opportunity to ask you the question. The Court of Auditors also questions the expected revenue of the budget article 420.4704, as the estimate for the initial budget 2016 was already considered to be very untrustworthy. The budget adjustment increased that article by a further EUR 15 million, which means an increase of 20%. The Court of Auditors also notes that it has no indication of the basis on which that EUR 15 million can be calculated and thus that 20% can be calculated. Finally, the Court of Auditors also recalls its investigation of July 2008 into the transfer of pension contributions between the private and public systems, in particular the problem of the irregular rhythm with which the RVP provides the PDOS with pension deductions. However, the Court notes that PDOS has still not followed the recommendations to improve the procedure for the regular collection of such pension contributions. So there are a lot of questions about revenue, which I do not want to make clear that you need to get that revenue. After all, I fear that there are a number of measures that we would rather not have. If they are entered in the budget, we are happy to know what the calculations are based on. My questions are as follows. With what specific measures do you intend to achieve the savings of EUR 11 million on civil servants' pensions? In the case of savings, can you give the amount per measure? When will the necessary legislative initiatives be taken in this respect? Can you explain why a further 15 million will be added to the adjusted budget, i.e. 20%? When will the PDOS follow those previous recommendations to improve the procedure for regular collection?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to remind you that the measures adopted by Parliament in the field of pensions and the measures I will shortly submit to this committee will not have the effect of reducing civil servants' pensions. On the contrary, these measures aim to safeguard the balance of our social protection system and to increase the average amount of pension. As regards your questions, in particular, which build on the comments of the Court of Auditors, I would like to make a few clarifications. The return of EUR 11 million to which you refer relates to two measures decided during the budgetary conclave of 22 April 2016. Firstly, the extension of 60 to 63 years for compulsory retirement after 365 sick days. This measure, implemented by the Law of 27 July 2016, entered into force on 1 July 2016. Its return for 2016 initially estimated at EUR 880 000 was again estimated at EUR 1 005 000. Secondly, the reform of Diploma Bonification, the return of which was set at EUR 10 million for 2016. In view of the delay in the entry into force of the reform until early 2017, the return for 2016 was not maintained. The increase of EUR 15 million compared to the initial budget estimate results from a new assessment of the revenue corresponding to the contribution transfers between the ex-RVP and the ex-PDOS. In 2013, these transfers amounted to EUR 73.6 million. In 2014 it was 86 million euros and in 2015 it was 101 million euros. The initial budgetary estimate of EUR 75 million was therefore no longer realistic. That is why it was raised to 90 million euros. In the context of the introduction of the pension engine, the career data of all social security funds are integrated into a database. Part of that project concerns the cleaning of career data that overlaps. That cleaning is very complicated. The process is difficult to automate and will therefore give rise to a large volume of manual work in order to decide on the problematic cases. The cleaning process is based on a general review of the existing procedures in the field of transfers between the ex-RVP and the ex-PDOS within the federal pension service. Better accounting is part of that review in the long term. As a result of the merger between the RVP and PDOS, it is an internal project within the new institution that respects the full financial separation of the pension systems to be managed. This means that the Court of Auditors' observations have been taken into account. In the long term and following the introduction of the mixed pension, the problem will no longer exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I would also like to say in advance that the measures you are taking for pensions will mainly result in people having to work longer for a smaller pension. You should not say that it is for obtaining a higher pension, all calculations and all studies indicate that. You should see what a kindergarten teacher will get. It will have to work seven years longer for a smaller pension in the future. So let us stick to the facts. As far as my question is concerned and as I am very surprised, Minister, you are now coming to explain the 11 million and also the additional 15 million. Why wasn't that explanation given to the Court of Auditors? At the time I had the extracts with the questions of the Court of Auditors. All these things were not answered at the time. I need to check that out now. Of course, I believe what you're saying, but I can't answer that right now. What amazes me most is that these matters were apparently not passed on to the Court of Auditors. Perhaps we can pass on this information to the Court of Auditors during the forthcoming discussions. I will certainly continue to question the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u43	Mr President, PDOS' pension expenditure is falling by almost EUR 44 million. The PDOS writes the decrease to the estimate based on more recent figures. That is the estimate you have just referred to, I think. In its comments, the Court notes that this reduction in pension expenditure is again not supported by a concrete calculation compared to the initial budget. So the figures you have just referred to are here. The increase in expenditure for the abolition of the calculation of the permitted work for pensioners over the age of 65 and with a career of at least 42 years is also estimated to be lower than initially estimated. Here too, a new estimate is the basis. A concrete calculation or comparison is missing here too. Hence my questions about the recent figures on which the new estimates are based; the concrete calculation of the reduction in the pension expenditure of PDOS by nearly EUR 44 million how can you explain this; the concrete calculation of the lower estimated additional expenditure by the abolition of the calculation of the permitted work for pensioners over the age of 65 and with a career of at least 42 years. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u44	Ms Temmerman, the reduction in the estimate of expenditure during the 2016 budgetary control compared to the initial budget is mainly justified by two trends in the achievement of 2015. First, in 2015 there were more deaths than in the years before; 6 663 deaths in 2014 compared to 7 176 in 2015. Secondly, there have been fewer new pensions than foreseen in 2015 in the field of certain important articles. The administration which provided for a slight increase in new pensions in these articles has therefore adjusted its estimates downwards. These figures are based on the methodology used by the Federal Pension Service to draw up the budgetary estimates for civil servants' pensions. The budgetary estimates will be based on monthly monitoring of the various basic payments. The monthly inflow of new pensions and the monthly outflow mortality determine the net increase in volume. A trend based on the most recent data is identified and subsequently extrapolated. Mortality remains an uncertain factor. For example, a flu epidemic may result in actual mortality not following statistical probability. In order to take specific account of certain reforms, individual simulations are sometimes made. The results of those simulations shall be deducted from or added to the results of the extrapolations made on the basis of the identified trends, depending on whether it is a saving or a new benefit. The additional expenditure related to the abolition of the limits of permitted work relates only to the abolition of the limits of permitted work for pensioners over the age of 65 who have a career of less than 42 years and for pensioners who have a career of at least 45 years. This expenditure was estimated at EUR 7 146 000 in the initial budget. Following a new evaluation, this expenditure was estimated at EUR 2 496 000, i.e. a reduction of EUR 4 650 000 in expenditure. It is true that the additional cost for those who have reached the age of 65 with a career of 42 years is EUR 2 100 575. The additional cost for those who have a career of 45 years is 67 079 euros. This gives an annual total of EUR 2 167 654. This expenditure shall be accompanied by the survivor's pension expenditure amounting to EUR 329 000, representing a total of EUR 2 496 000. These figures are the result of simulations that have been done according to the methodology I have just explained. The results of the simulations therefore result from a comparison between the existing situation and the changed situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u45	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Here too, perhaps, this reasoning should be passed on to the Court of Auditors, because apparently it does not receive this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u46	Minister, I can keep this question brief, because you have already answered a number of questions concerning mixed pensions. The only one I'm asking for left is the next. In the 2017 budget, 22 million were entered. However, you have just said that the legislative initiative to make the second pillar operational for the contractual partners would be launched this year. Am I right or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u47	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u48	When is the draft law on supplementary pensions for contractual officials due?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u49	The preliminary draft law establishing a mixed pension is currently before the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u50	It's about the mixed pension. I am talking about the supplementary pension, in particular the fact that contractual staff will also be able to build up a supplementary pension. Or is it included in that arrangement?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u51	It will be done at the same time, together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u52	Will there be two bills?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u53	I think we are now moving towards a single bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u54	For both?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u55	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u56	Again this year? In 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u57	I hope so. I'd like it all to come together. There is obviously a need for consultation in the Public Enterprises Committee, the Military Personnel Negotiating Committee and the A Committee, as well as the opinions of local entities, with ORPSS and therefore DIBISS. This will take some time, but I do not know how to prejudge the timing. This will come as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u58	Either way, the two will be treated together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u59	Yes, either with two bills or with one. It is sometimes easier to do this with two projects because one has to go to Committee A and the other not.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u60	Mr President, Minister, this is a question on the basis of the draft that we approved before the recess on the increase in minimum pensions and the use of 25 million. The questions I asked were not answered and I shall therefore repeat them. It was decided at that time that an increase of 0,7% would be granted to persons with a full career, i.e. 45/45e. This fell within the budget of that 25 million. In the explanatory memorandum it was stated that it might be possible to reduce the 45/45e to 43 or 44/45e by royal decree, or that the increase of 0,7% could be increased. That is how I read it in the explanatory statement. Mr Minister, do you have an idea of the number of people who could qualify for 43 or 44/45e? It would then be possible to assess the budgetary implications of such a measure if the career condition were to be made more flexible. What growth path can you possibly see in increasing the rate of increase? Is there any provision for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u61	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns the same draft law, but it is of a different order. I would like to refer again to the gender dimension of the draft law on minimum pension reform, which we discussed in this committee before the summer recess. After the discussion, things became a little clearer. I'm going back to the meeting at the time. Nearly 12 000 women receive a minimum pension compared with 38 000 men. You came up with the fact that the number of women who get an increase is 2.2 times higher than the number of men who get an increase. Now let me come back to the discussion we just had. If we look at this in absolute terms, it is all good, but we also have to take account of the ratio and find that almost three times as many women as men receive a minimum pension. This has also become clear in committee following a more in-depth debate. In fact, it is not surprising at all that, absolutely speaking, more women than men get the increase. There's just more women at that age. Women live longer and men need the minimum pension less often because they receive higher pensions. It can also be expressed in a different way: 62% of men with a minimum pension receive the increase, compared with only 47% of women. So I think you can no longer say that women are not disadvantaged. I have a few other questions, to make the overall picture. As far as workers are concerned, we now know how many women and men are entitled to a minimum pension, but that is still not clear for people in a mixed scheme and for the self-employed. How many women are entitled to a minimum pension? So it's about self-employed and women who had a mixed career. How many men are there in both cases? How many of them have a full career of 45 years? How many women have a pension that is smaller or equal to the minimum pension amount, by category, namely employees, self-employed persons and the mixed scheme? How many men have a pension that is smaller or equal to the minimum pension amount in those three categories? How many of them have a full career of 45 years?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u62	Mr President, by increasing the minimum pensions by 0.6%, the government wishes to recognise the effort made by citizens with a full career, but without having been able to build up sufficient pension rights so that they are covered by the minimum pension scheme. As I have already pointed out, this draft law therefore creates a form of social pension bonus for men and women who, despite a long career, receive only a minimum pension. I am making available a table which takes back the number of men and women who could benefit from the proposed reform in cases where the condition for the career break would be reduced to 44/45th or 43/45th, according to the information provided by the federal pension service. The King is authorized to fix the rate of increase in the minimum pension provided for by law for the holders of a full career, in accordance with the opinion of the Council of State. The 10% rate was indeed set independently of the government's objective of increasing the minimum pension rate to 10% above the poverty line. I hope to have the necessary resources in the coming years so that, in line with the government's will to strengthen the link between the pension granted and the professional career achieved, I can increase the increase of 0,7%. I would also like to make available to Mrs Willaert the various figures that have been requested. The results in the various tables are based on the selection used for the figures in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law granting a contribution to some beneficiaries of a minimum pension and to increase certain minimum pensions in the employed and self-employed system. The population thus selected on the basis of the September 2015 payments represents 1 264 442 pensioners, representing 669 568 men and 594 874 women. I would like to provide you with a table showing the number of men and women receiving a pension the amount of which is smaller or equal to that of the minimum pension. Within this group 36 men and 182 women have a mixed career and self-employed, aged 45. For these figures, the FPD selected the population from its August 2016 data warehouse. It concerns only pensioners with a retirement pension without a survivor's pension. Those entitled to a career abroad and a career in the public sector were also excluded. Mrs Becq, I have for you the figures of the minimum pension for a pure career as a self-employed person and the figures for the minimum pension for a mixed career, for men and women. For a pure career as a selfemployed person, 44 984 men are entitled to a minimum pension compared with 7 400 women. Within that group, a minimum pension is paid to 42 759 men and 7 171 women. I also have the table for the mixed careers of men and women, as well as another table for information on the single people and those with a family burden.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll study the numbers. I can't replicate right now. It is important, however, that the 10% increase above the poverty line is worked as hard as some other measures in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u64	Minister, you have indeed given a lot of figures. We will carefully analyse the figures in the tables.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u65	Mr Minister, I am asking this question in the light of a previous written question. My question is about the waiting period between graduation and the military service, which was 150 days. During this period, it was usually almost impossible to obtain a servant's contract. At best, some work could be done on an interim basis, but at least 104 days had to be worked in order to qualify for pension rights, which was very difficult in practice. During this waiting period, graduates were therefore not able to offer their qualifications on the labour market. Not only is there the period of compulsory service or civil service from which no pension rights can or could be derived, but also the period between graduation and the beginning of military service is a gap. You are replying to my written question that the 150 days that are legally unrelated to the compulsory service are, of course, correct, but this does not mean that this period should not be equated. You've decided to do that. Firstly, are you aware of this problem? Secondly, are you considering equalising this period prior to military service?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u66	First of all, allow me to point out that almost 94% of the periods of military service or civil service are currently treated as equivalent for retirement. Most men have therefore acquired pension rights for this period. The Royal Decrees allowing equivalence of the 6% remaining periods were published on 5 August 2016, as regards the employees, and on 8 August 2016, as regards the self-employed. I also indicated in reply to your written question of 6 June last that the 150-day waiting period was not included in the legislation on military service. This means that the inclusion of this period as an equivalent period is not at issue. You will undoubtedly know that in the current pension system, pension rights are built up by working periods or equivalent periods in which a social benefit is paid. So I do not think it is appropriate to change this absolute basic principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u67	Minister, you are assuming the criterion that it should be a period of benefit. The question then is, of course, whether or not we are going to put it in the same way. However, this is a period in which, logically, few pension rights can be built up for various reasons. It's a short period, among other things. This also seems to me to be an important criterion for considering equivalence. The question is, will you reconsider that? The people who find themselves in that case are effectively confronted with a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u68	Mr Minister, in early July, you spoke on the subject of GRAPA saying that the conditions of access were too lax and that it was time to put an end to them. In particular, you mentioned the fact that, from 1 September 2017, you will have to reside in Belgium for at least ten years, including five uninterrupted years, in order to qualify for GRAPA. Has this reform been subject to social consultation? What comes out of it? Those who will no longer be entitled to it in the context of this possible development will have to be taken over by the CPAS, with an impact on the budgets of cities and municipalities. Would you consider compensation? Do you have any estimates of the proportion of exclusions, if the reform is applied now, by Region? You announced the budgetary impacts of this development, including savings of $2 million in 2017, $9 million for the following years. How do you intend to reallocate these savings? Is this to increase the GRAPA amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u69	No. The preliminary draft law to introduce the ten-year residence requirement in order to qualify for GRAPA was indeed submitted to the social partners, in the Management Committee of the Federal Pension Service, on 29 June. When you read the opinion of the social partners, you can see that the employers' representatives gave a positive opinion on the reform, while the workers' representatives simply took note. They did not give a negative opinion. The only difference ultimately relates to the purpose of reducing the expenditure associated with this measure. Employers are of the view that there should be a sufficient margin between the GRAPA and the minimum pension. They believe that the reduction in expenditure should not be reinvested in a proportional increase in GRAPA. The trade unions, for their part, are of the opinion that the revenue generated by this measure must contribute to an increase in the amount of GRAPA, since the introduction of a ten-year residence requirement is part of the implementation of a budget notification. Since the introduction of a ten-year residence requirement is part of the implementation of a budget notification, however, the revenue derived from this measure cannot be used freely. I believe that the number of people who will benefit from integration income as a result of this measure will be quite small. However, it was decided to measure the possible impact of this measure on the social integration income budget after the implementation of the new provisions. At this stage, no compensatory budget has been established.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u70	Minister, thank you for your answers. When you say that the impact at the CPAS level should be quite minimal, is it because there are few people involved or because few people will go to CPAS after being affected by the measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u71	There's a residency requirement. For people who go to the CPAS, there will be a much tighter control. You know how CPAS work; there is a much more individual and much closer approach to controlling the conditions for granting. For GRAPA, there is also a check but it is less individual. It's a lot more complicated. We're not going to send agents to control the houses. The control is much more distant. At first glance, I do not think that this will lead to significant transfers, but the problem has been considered. It was decided to provide for an assessment of the possible impact of this measure on integration income.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u72	Mr President, Minister, in the course of September there were some announcements on the progress of the work on penitibility. I think it is to be welcomed that the National Pension Committee officially approved a report on this recognition, which contained good progress. Can you provide us with the schedule for further discussions? What is the budget you intend to spend on valuing difficult jobs? Do you always keep the logic of maintaining budgetary neutrality and sliding from one regime to another?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u73	Mr President, Mr Minister, the persistence of certain professions is very important and has not been taken into account so far in the reforms that you have put in place. The social partners have worked to try to define how to measure this tenibility. This objectivation is obviously the first condition for taking account of the age of the pension or the amount of the pension. They submitted a report to you on September 11, to which you responded by asking them to continue their work so that their criteria would be more precise, objective, verifiable, measurable and registrable. It is your right to push them to excellence in this field. On the other hand, they expect the government to put on the table ways to ensure that, beyond the definition of penitibility, it is recognized, either through the assimilation of periods in the calculation of the pension or through increases in pension amounts. My questions, of course, are in line with those of my colleague. How do you read this report? Since you feel that their work is not enough, what exactly do you expect from the social partners? Are you not afraid that the supplementary applications you are making will still delay the completion of this important element of pension reform? What have been the demands and expectations of the social partners for you, particularly in terms of the budget envelope? Have you committed yourself to putting a budget envelope on the table in order to be able to take account of this tenuousness? How long do you have to provide them with the answers to the questions they sent you?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u74	Mr Minister, like my colleagues, I can only welcome the progress made in social dialogue. Indeed, at some point, we could have believed that it was an impossible mission. Four criteria would have been used: - the persistence of working circumstances due to physical constraints related to the working environment or due to physical burdens; - the tenability of the work organisation; - penitence due to high safety risks; - mental or emotional penitibility. Mr Minister, are these criteria cross-cutting, i.e. valid for all sectors, trades and schemes, therefore for employees as well as for civil servants and self-employed persons? Are there still stumbling blocks between the social partners? We know that unions favoured a collective approach, while employers preferred an individual approach. Have they been able to make progress on this point as well? The National Pension Committee's progress report on the issue of penitibility states that the criteria must be precise, objective and measurable in order to be accepted. The social partners would be responsible for refining them, but I would like to know who will measure them and by what method. When will penitibility be appreciated? Will it be at the end of the career or throughout the career? I also agree with my colleagues on the financing of the measure, which seems to be still a question. Will we first determine the envelope and then see what can be done with the available means and refine the criteria accordingly? Or will we first refine the criteria, see the number of workers potentially involved and finally estimate the necessary budget envelope? I will end with one aspect that I personally care about: informing workers and, above all, those who are close to retirement. It has now been more than a year since the law raising the statutory retirement age to 67 was passed. Similarly, workers have been waiting for more than a year to know whether they will have to work until the age of 67. I would like to point out that you have repeatedly stated that the departure at age 67 would involve only 5 to 10 per cent of workers. The expectations are therefore high. The time seems long for those who are starting to prepare their life plan for retirement. When do you expect to be able to respond to this need for information?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, at the outset I would like to dispel a misunderstanding. I will not, of course, instead of the National Pensions Committee, begin to rule on how to identify the criteria in a precise way and how to attach them to professions. This is the work of the National Pension Committee. Remember that the National Pensions Committee is not a social consultation body workers/employers, it is a tripartite body with the presence of the government! Thus, the originality of the agreement on methodology lies in the fact that it binds the three parties: employers, workers and the government. We referred to four categories of criteria, which were defined in the public sector discussion. What was especially important was that the social partners decided to continue the discussions as part of a collective approach to recognition of penitibility in the area of pensions. This was the main debate, the collective approach. This is the case in all countries where penitibility is mentioned. The major debate is whether a collective approach or an individual approach is taken, since it is generally in the countries where they have taken the latter option, linked to health status. In this case, we agreed, as part of a collective approach to recognition of pension penitibility, with the definition of specific, objective, controllable, measurable, registrable criteria for the identification of occupational categories which will benefit from more favourable pension arrangements, whether in terms of the duration of the activity or the amount of the pension. This will be left to the choice of workers. There will be an additional individual approach for the self-employed because they do not know how to initiate collective action, since sometimes there is no employer. In this case, an individual approach will be used, as well as for workers with a severe disability or illness. This approach is indispensable in these cases. The criteria to be adopted and implemented will be determined within the framework of budgetary allocations, which will shortly be set by the government in the context of the 2017 budget, in accordance with the procedure announced from the beginning of the work to the social partners meeting within the National Pension Committee. The operation, Mr. Daerden, will not be budget neutral. For workers in the public sector, it has been decided to reallocate the means resulting from the abandonment of the first preferential measures. This is not the case for the private sector, where there are no tyranny preferences. It will be necessary for both employees and self-employed persons to identify new means, since for both schemes there is currently no modulation of pension rights related to the function exercised. These budgetary means are intended to make it possible to modulate pension rights on the basis of criteria of penitibility which will be adopted. This is in fact the third stage of the process I have set with the social partners. It is also at this point that we will determine how to measure and record the severity of the functions. As far as Mrs Caprasse's remark about the 67 years of age is concerned, when I say that in fact only 5 to 10 % will go to 67 years of age, this is of course the proportion of people who will actually work until the age of 67, and not those who will apply for their pension at 67 years of age. These are two different notions. It is a question of responding to all those who say that by lowering the legal age of retirement to 67, we will force everyone to work up to this age. That is obviously not the point. Long, very long careers will have to be taken into account and the criteria of penitibility will have to be taken into account. The information of workers on the date of their possible retirement is indeed essential. This is why it is possible, since January 21, to obtain on the site mypension.be the date of taking of the course of the pension. A new step will be taken in 2017, as citizens will be able to obtain the amount of their pro-rated pension on the date from which they can retire. Of course, for the time being, the criteria of penitibility are not taken into account. It's obvious. They will be taken into account as soon as we move on to the third phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u76	Minister, thank you for your answer. So there are still many unknowns for the rest of the operations. I hope this can progress quickly. Indeed, as my colleague has mentioned, this creates many questions for a number of workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u77	Minister, I am concerned about the sequencing and delay in making decisions on difficult trades and the means to do so. With regard to sequencing, the government has already taken options in terms of pensions, which have not been the subject of similar consultation and whose effects are directly felt by workers, regardless of the length of their function. I am thinking in particular of the increase in the age of access to pensions and the abolition of similar periods. I would have preferred to have worked first on the issue of difficult jobs before undertaking the other reforms. Secondly, for the decision-making period, since it is a way of mitigating this general effort which is required of all workers compared to those who work in more difficult jobs, it seems to me urgent to move forward on the matter. Finally, on the question of means, a satisfactory response to taking into account the tenability of functions can only be obtained if resources are mobilized. I note that as early as 2017, in terms of the budget, you are planning to release envelopes. This is the next date we'll have. I invite you to pay particular attention to the issue of gender and the need for differentiated criteria between workers and workers. This seems to me essential, especially since this aspect has been too little taken into account in the measures relating to pensions which have already been adopted during this and the previous Parliaments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u78	Minister, thank you for your explanation. You answered my questions almost completely. It remains to be stressed that it is urgent to be able to finalise everything, because the workers are waiting to know what their fate will be. I'm counting on you to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u79	Mr Minister, on 11 May last you told me in committee that you had asked the general administrator of the Federal Pension Service for the latter's management committee to give an opinion "as soon as possible" on the financial situation of the pension scheme for professional journalists. Depending on the content of the scheme, you reserved the right to adapt the provisions of the scheme. In my reply, I called for account to be taken of the fact that employers' and journalists' contributions may have exceeded pension expenditure in the past, rather than just considering the last few years. This would be to have an overall view over time of the contributions paid and the expenses of the supplementary pension system for journalists. Have you received the advice of the Federal Pension Service Management Committee in the meantime? What is the content? Do you have any information on the excess contributions made in the past? What conclusions do you draw in terms of future action on the future of this specific pension scheme? On this basis, what consultation will be established with journalists and their representatives? If you do not have this opinion, within what time frame will that be the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u80	As I have already had the opportunity to tell you, the pension scheme for professional journalists is currently rather deficit. The latest assessment of the financial situation of the scheme shows a deficit of €217,000 in 2013, €363,000 in 2014 and €486,000 in 2015. Given the overall ageing of the population and the evolution of the sector, it is very likely that this deficit, all things being equal, will continue to increase. The Federal Pensions Service Management Committee recently informed me of its position on the matter. The opinion of 23 May 2016 takes two options: either the abolition of the special scheme or the increase in contributions. The opinion concludes that, I quote: "The Management Committee, finding unanimously the structural deficit of this particular scheme and the lack of solutions found in consultation with the sector during meetings with the administration, asks the appropriate Minister to take a decision on this matter. In the absence of a decision, the Management Committee, in a majority, would like this particular scheme to be repealed outright." For my part, I believe that the regime can be maintained for as long as its financial balance can be assured, in accordance with article 119/1 of the Law of 28 December 2011 on various provisions. I have recently met with the representatives of the journalists in order to convey this position to them. I suggested that journalists who were not in the order of contributions could regularize their situation before the end of 2016. I proposed to take stock of the financial situation of the plan at the beginning of 2017 before considering new measures, including the possibility of raising the contribution rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u81	There is one question you refuse to answer. Maybe you don't have the answer. It is a historical view of the contributions that have been paid. It can be imagined that excess contributions have been paid in the past and that the current deficits could have been covered by these previous bonuses. It is important to be able to objectiveize this issue in order to have a calm debate. You say that the system can continue as long as a financial balance can be assured. Does that mean that the system cannot continue if this balance does not exist? Is that the position you stand for?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u82	That's not the position, that's the law of 2011!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u83	Law of 2011 that not everyone voted in our assembly! We have challenged it in many respects. In this case, I believe that the system is being called into question today, but you do not want to establish the historical reality of contributions. Is it a technical impossibility or a unwillingness to...?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u84	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's an impossibility! It is the mechanism in the pension system that does not allow for this! You never know how to go over the amount of contributions x years ago and reallocate it. It's never been like that! The very principle of global management does not allow this!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u85	If not, this is a supplementary pension system that generates separate contributions and separate payments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u86	It is not a system of supplementary contributions in the proper sense of the term.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u87	You can give me the figures for 2013, 2014 and 2015 but you can't do it for previous years. I find this strange in the management of the system. As far as the past is concerned, I obviously do not hold you responsible. However, if we are to have a calm and balanced debate with regard to this specific system, which has generated the payment of contributions by both employers and workers concerned, this objective vision must be available.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u88	Mr President, Minister, I have quite worrying information about the management of pension files for many of our fellow citizens. It seems very difficult for the user to receive reliable information on the date of retirement, whether early or not, as well as on the amount of pension that will be granted. There are numerous reports of serious dysfunctions of mypension.be, both for civil servants, including teachers, and for employees. On the basis of cross-referenced information, these deficiencies would be confirmed by SFP officers themselves. However, it is crucial for citizens to receive complete and accurate information in the context of the gradual and repeated changes in the pension rules that this government, through you, has introduced since the beginning of the legislature. Even for people who are not necessarily close to retirement, having complete information about their career path must enable them to make their career choices with full knowledge of the cause. Minister, can you provide us with a statement of the situation? Is it true that mypension.be does not work perfectly, if not badly enough? If so, what measures are envisaged or taken to remedy this situation? How long can they be expected? What procedure should the citizen prefer to receive information about his career, his retirement date and the amount of his pension? What are citizens' remedies in the event of late communication or failure to provide such information? In addition, several testimonies refer to disturbing information provided by SFP officers that the amount of pensions would be planed for retiring civil servants as of November 1st as a result of the abolition of the valorization of their years of study, prompting them de facto to anticipate their date of separation from work. Is this information correct? If not, what assurance can be given to the citizens concerned that this is an unjustified fear?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u89	Mr Gilkinet, since 21 January, mypension.be allows not only to consult his career as it took place in the three main pension schemes, but also to estimate the date of taking courses of early retirement. Moreover, the site is very crowded, with 1,786,000 visitors on 22 September. Nearly 80% of them are future pensioners, who have consulted their careers and retirement dates. However, I recognize that the SFP faces some limitations in the use of the site in question. This may prevent, in some cases, the visitor from obtaining satisfaction. About 3% of citizens find it difficult to connect to mypension. These difficulties can be found in other e-government applications such as tax-on-web. The various federal governments are cooperating to solve this problem. I would add, however, that the SFP has put in place a specific technical support which can be accessed free of charge via the 1765 telephone line. The calculation of the date of taking of courses of the early pension is only possible when all the historical data of the worker's career are known. If this is not the case, the SFP does not calculate a course start date, as the date provided could only be erronized. To date, for the public sector, career data is missing for 133,000 workers. Legally, this data could have already been provided by public sector employers since 1 January 2016. On this subject, I can highlight the fact that the Education Department of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation was very far from achieving this objective by the end of 2015. As of 26 January 2016, only 17,001 electronic certificates have been validated out of a total of 101,736 to be issued, representing just 16.71 % of the quota. In these circumstances, the vast majority of teachers in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation cannot therefore consult their careers or obtain their P-date. A limited list of employers will still have to provide career data. This list is contained in the annex; I can transmit it to you. As regards the amount of the pension, it is currently possible to apply for an estimate of the amount of the pension from the age of 55. However, I would like to inform you that my administration is working intensively on the next version of mypension.be, which in 2017 will allow the calculation not only of the date of taking courses, but also of the amount of the retirement pension. Unlike the decisions taken by the administration when applying for a pension, the estimates provided are not subject to appeal to a labour court. However, the administration cannot issue information that would be manifestly inaccurate, under penalty of legal action for damages. It is for this reason that the Federal Pension Service has put in place various internal controls to verify the accuracy of the careers taken into account. The reports of a reduction in pension amounts linked to the reform of the diploma bonus are totally farfetched and clearly contribute to the desire of some to raise concern among the population. The texts of this reform will soon be submitted to the social dialogue. As I have already indicated, the reform is not intended, as proposed by the Pension Reform Commission, to abolish the subsidy, but rather to maintain it and harmonise the conditions for implementation between the three regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u90	Minister, I take note of your answer. There is indeed a specific problem related to the transmission of data on teachers' careers, particularly vis-à-vis the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. I hope that this situation can be resolved quickly. The teaching population is affected by various pension measures. She is particularly worried about her situation but she cannot do it via mypension.be. You are announcing a new version of this site and the IT platform that allows you to obtain information. Improvements are really needed, especially in relation to acknowledgements of receipt, the knowledge of who processes applications, the fact that attached files are lost. Many design defects are hidden behind something that seems to be modern and can be useful in relation to the knowledge of one's personal situation. I hope that these various problems can be dealt with quickly, as a matter of priority with regard to the inclusion of teachers' data. But I may not be in the right parliament to ask that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u91	Mr President, Minister, since the reform of pension complement entered into force on 1 January 2015, a gap has arisen for people who have a career in a neighbouring country with a higher retirement age than in Belgium. In particular, frontier workers in the Netherlands, where retirement age has been 67 years, have a problem. If they are dismissed or have to stop working before the age of 65 because of illness or disability, they will only receive Belgian social security benefits up to the age of 65, but they will only receive their Dutch pension two years later. In the meantime, they have to do with what they have built up in Belgium, even though it is little or nothing. Until 2015, such people could claim the pension complement, but not since. I'd like to ask you the following questions. Firstly, what measures will you take to resolve this problem? Will you ensure that these people can bridge the two-year period? Is it possible, for example, for these persons to extend the right to social benefits by two years? Or is another solution possible according to you? Secondly, how many Belgian frontier workers are currently working in the Netherlands? Thirdly, how many Belgian frontier workers currently retire on the basis of their frontier work in the Netherlands? Fourthly, how many Belgian frontier workers are currently drawing a pension based on their frontier work in the Netherlands, supplemented by an IGO? Finally, how many Belgian frontier workers currently benefit from unemployment, sickness or invalidity benefits pending a Dutch pension?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u92	Mr President, I am not going to outline the problem again. Mr De Vriendt has just done so. I'll get to the questions right away. Are you currently working on a concrete solution for these people, who have become ill before the age of 65 and who have worked a large part of their career in the Netherlands, where they have a very minimal pension, as they only get it at 67 years? What measures will you take to ensure that Belgian frontier workers who are threatened by this situation still have a decent income? Have you been in contact with your Dutch colleague about this? Could there possibly be a Belgian-Dutch compromise that could offer a solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u93	Mr President, various reasons form the basis of the reform of the pension complement granted to frontier workers. Firstly, the principle of pension complement for frontier work is contrary to European legislation which provides that a person may not build up pension rights in two different countries on the basis of the same benefits. Furthermore, the pension supplement should not become a full pension which is exclusively borne by Belgium by raising the statutory retirement age and tightening the conditions for taking up the early retirement pension abroad. For these reasons, the reform links the payment of the pension complement with the payment of the foreign pension. On the basis of the information transmitted to me by the Federal Pension Service, I can inform you that currently, plus minus 33 000 Belgian frontier workers work in the Netherlands and plus 35 000 in Luxembourg. On the basis of the information transmitted to me by the FDP, it appears that on 1 January 2016 9 788 persons received a Belgian pension, a pension supplement for frontier work and a statutory Dutch retirement pension without being granted an IGO. On 1 January 2016, 156 persons received a Belgian pension, a pension supplement for frontier work and a Dutch statutory retirement pension, while they also received an IGO. I would like to make it clear that the persons who have lost their supplement for frontier work or their right to work due to the amount of the Dutch pension have not been included in these figures which have been communicated to you. I cannot answer Mr De Vriendt's last question because it falls within the competence of my colleague Mr De Block and Mr Peeters. Finally, to answer Mrs Temmerman's question, I confirm that I had no contact with my Dutch colleague on this subject. I would add that any specific measure that would be adopted by one country or another would create discrimination against the other workers of these countries. As you know, our social security system allows those who need it to receive a benefit of the type IGO.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u94	What exactly is your solution to this problem, Minister? The problem is real. A Belgian who has worked as a frontier worker for some 20 years in the Netherlands but who becomes sick or disabled and gets a benefit in Belgium, where he lives, suddenly falls without a benefit when he becomes 65 years old. He will then receive a Belgian pension for the few years he has worked in Belgium. However, most of his pension rights are built up in the Netherlands, which he only gets at 67 years.. What should that person do? I also find it a little strange that you admit that you have not yet had contact with your Dutch colleague. Surely we could assume that this is the case? This case has already appeared in the media. I submitted my question on 12 August. It is not necessarily necessary that only Belgium should move in this case. The Netherlands could also do a gesture and provide a concession. I believe it is necessary for you to take an initiative in this matter. If that hasn't happened yet, and apparently it hasn't, I'd like to ask you to do so. I repeat my question: what is your solution for that Belgian who has worked for a long time in the Netherlands and has built up pension rights which he cannot yet benefit from between 65 and 67 years old?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u95	Minister, I am very surprised at your answer. You give the reason why the pension complement can no longer be given. We already knew that, and that's actually what the questioning says. That is not the problem and certainly not the solution. As the honourable Member says, there are people who are actually in this situation at the moment. They have a particularly low pension because they only receive a pension for the rights they have acquired in Belgium. However, they have worked most of their career in the Netherlands. If they become ill, they will receive sickness benefits like all Belgians. You are talking about discrimination, but that is not discrimination at all. The sickness benefit ends with us at 65 years of age because one can retire at that age. Persons concerned can benefit from a pension for the part they have worked in Belgium, but they receive a very low pension because most of their careers took place in the Netherlands. U antwoordt: "It's like that. Point on the line. [[»]] But how are these people supposed to make ends meet?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u96	But finally, I am not going to change the law of the Netherlands!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u97	But you are not being asked to change the law of the Netherlands!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u98	Yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u99	No, we didn't say that! I asked if you had ever had any contact with your colleague in the Netherlands. That's the least I can do. You answer in the negative and then you say it's the law. How do people have to live in those two years when they do not receive their pension? You're not interested?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u100	Yes, I made a visit to the Netherlands and we discussed the subject, but not on this specific point! If people live in Belgium, they benefit from the GRAPA system, that's what I told you!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u101	Yes, it's the minimum minimorum!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u102	This is about the minimum pension!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u103	You say there is no discrimination, but of course there is. For Belgians there is no problem with the transition from their sickness benefit to their pension. However, there is a problem with these Belgians, because they can only get their pension at 67. I believe that the Belgian State should provide a solution for these two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u104	It is the Dutch State that must find a solution!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u105	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u106	Because the pension rights were set up there!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u107	Otherwise, we will give a pension to people who have not paid a pension in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u108	We're not asking for a pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u109	Yes, you do. You said "two years' pension."
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u110	If necessary, the sickness benefit will be extended for those two years. It's a problem because the sickness benefits stop and the pension can't start yet. There's a two-year gap.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u111	An extension of the sickness benefit may be a solution. We do not ask for an additional two years' pension for those people, but someone who gets a sickness benefit of, for example, EUR 1 200 falls back on an IGO between 65 and 67 at best. Today, a livelihood study is also being carried out. If that person had his own house and property, it is actually said to him that during those two years, between the ages of 65 and 67, he would have to make up his savings. Somewhere there is a gap in our legislation. Perhaps not only Belgium should move, the Netherlands could move too, but I would ask you to study this matter again and contact your Dutch colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u112	For a problem of incapacity for work! I will discuss with Mrs De Block what needs to be done!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u113	I will also report it myself at Benelux level. It can also be taken into account at that level, but there really is a problem. It is unfair not to offer a solution to those people and to tell them to apply for an IGO. They may not even be able to get IGO because they are wealthy or have their own home or savings. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u114	So that can be seen with Mrs. De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u115	Mr Minister, my question concerns the report recently published by the Federal Planning Office on the importance and composition of the periods treated. This was done at the request of my colleague Peter De Roover. That report showed that it is not possible for recently retired workers to make a detailed distinction between all such periods. The reason for this is that they are not clearly defined. We also read in this report that not all types of equivalence can be identified separately. An example is a period of guaranteed pay which cannot be distinguished from a period worked. In the coalition agreement we said that we want to work towards the harmonisation of pension systems. In the context of this harmonisation, it is, of course, important that there should be a proper study of the importance of equality in the various systems. We must therefore be able to compare these systems, including the periods treated as such. According to the report, this is not possible. The report gives a number of recommendations. Firstly, it is necessary to develop a common cross-system terminology, which is legally justified in relation to the periods treated. Secondly, we need to be able to contact existing employment registers with employers: social secretariats, government employers, etc. They have a lot of information to identify the treated periods. I come to my questions. Firstly, have you already taken steps or are you planning to do something for the development of cross-system terminology? Secondly, do you have plans to collect the necessary information about the periods of inactivity?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u116	A similar period is defined in principle in the three pension systems in the same way. This is indeed a period of inactivity which is treated as an effective period of work. It is correct that there are some differences between the systems. For example, a period of study at present is not regarded as an equivalent period in the scheme of employees and selfemployed persons because the equivalence for the pension is linked to the payment of a contribution. In the case of workers, a period of sickness after the period of guaranteed pay is regarded as an equivalent period since the person concerned received a social benefit and did not receive a wage. This is contrary to the public sector, where the employer continues to pay the staff member's wages until he has exhausted the quota of his sick days. The continuation of harmonization of the various systems will thus automatically lead to a more uniform and unambiguous definition of the concept of treated periods. The information relating to the periods treated as such currently available to pension institutions is related to the level of detail necessary for the correct application of pension legislation. Since the pension reform started under the Di Rupo government, for example, the Federal Pension Service should be able to identify the third period of unemployment, as it is now treated in the same way as the other periods of unemployment, on the basis of the minimum annual law and not on the basis of the last wage. Moreover, the available data also depends on the authentic source that this data provides to pension institutions. The various social security institutions sometimes use the same codes for different periods treated, for example periods of illness and periods of maternity rest. I would like to inform you that I have asked the FPD to pay attention to this issue and to take it into account in future computer developments so as to ensure a better collection of information on such periods. I also asked the FPD to examine the possibility of cross-checking the various databases in order to complete the information available within the FPD.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u117	Minister, that is clear. I'm a little surprised. You're turning things around. The Planning Bureau says that similar definitions must first be established and then harmonised. I understand from your answer that you will first harmonise and that the definitions will follow. I am surprised at this answer, but I hope you are right and that the problem will be solved by itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u118	Mr Minister, on the occasion of the progressive increase in the required minimum age for obtaining an early retirement pension from the public sector, PDOS in 2012 took stock of the existing systems of early retirement leave in all public authorities and public institutions. At that time, in December 2011, 53 systems of transitional measures had been drawn up. The statutes of all these schemes include a scheme allowing officials to take five years' leave prior to retirement before the earliest possible retirement age. Even now that measures have been taken by the government to bring early retirement to 62 years, many officials still have the possibility of actually leaving work at the age of 57 years. Pension legislation laid down only a number of general principles as regards the equivalence of leave and absences for the calculation of the pension. The main focus is therefore on the statutes which are distinct from each other, which give concrete form to the leave and absences and also provide a legal basis for them. The pension legislator has relatively little impact on this. It even leads to new types of leave, which are entered in all those statutes. I have the following questions. You had announced that you would update the list of engagements prior to retirement. Have you been able to gather that information? Have any new types of leave been approved by the Minister of Pensions since 2012? Do you have any indications that the number of new engagements and types of engagements would fall in the short term? These leave is a huge obstacle to the harmonisation of pension systems, and I refer to my previous question. Such leave shall be governed by law and shall therefore apply to certain officials. Moreover, the plethora of articles of association makes it more than 1 000 completely unclear. In the context of harmonization, are you also planning to standardise the engagements that count prior to retirement?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u119	The new list of leave prior to retirement is about to be completed. This list updates the pre-retirement list included in the Royal Decree of 20 September 2012. It is not intended that this list, which contained the pre-retirement leave in 2015, should be extended further with new forms of leave prior to the pension. The purpose of the new list is only to provide a guarantee to the staff members who were on leave prior to the pension in 2015 who were not reclaimable at the time the conditions for receiving an early retirement pension were tightened. This list allows to avoid that staff would not be entitled to their pension at the time their leave ends prior to retirement. I inform you that the Royal Decree of 19 March 2014 added five leaves to the 2012 list. It's not about new engagements prior to retirement. These leaves existed before 2012 but the public sector employers had not reported them. In the long term, the number of leave prior to retirement will decrease, to the extent that Article 16 of the Law of 6 January 2014 inhibits the proliferation of unpaid leave equivalent to service activity. Indeed, since 1 June 2014, in order to be taken into account for the pension, any new leave should be added to a list of Royal Decrees submitted by the Council of Ministers. A simple agreement by the Minister for Pensions is not enough. In accordance with Article 16 of this Act, the Royal Decree of 6 June 2016 added two new leave prior to the pension to the list annexed to the Law of 6 January 2014 for Proximus staff, which will pay an additional financial contribution of 12 million to the public treasury to compensate. In order to complete your information, I would like to inform you that Article 16 is only intended to cover pensions borne by the public treasury or the pool of parastatals. This legal provision does not aim at the pensions of local authorities who themselves finance their pensions through the consolidated pension fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u120	Mr President, Minister, I apologise because it is a rather technical question. I suggest them because I have been reminded of the problem by several people in the very short term. Since 2014, it is also possible for statutory civil servants to apply for the pension online via www.pensionaanvraag.be. This online application not only allows you to apply for a pension, but also gives the applicant the opportunity to choose an starting date. The applicant has two options. He or she wishes the pension to take effect as early as possible whether he or she wishes the pension to take effect on a date preferred by the claimant. At the end of the application procedure, the applicant may print a receipt. That receipt shall indicate the date and number of the application, the pension to be calculated, the date of commencement desired, the institution or institutions handling or processing the application and any observations. However, when an applicant opts for the option "Would like the pension to start as early as possible', which is one of the options, the treatment varies according to the pension system in which the application is dealt with. The Federal Pension Service employees, i.e. the employees of the former RVP, and the National Institute for Social Security of Self-employed Persons, i.e. the RSVZ, consider that choice as a pension application and will allow the pension to start at the earliest possible starting date. On the other hand, the former PDOS, i.e. the federal pension service, considers this choice not as a full pension application but as an application for the pension estimate. The applicant shall be required to submit a new application at a later date and to choose a fixed date at that time. This can be done in the past, and this has caused administrative problems, especially in the case of mixed careers. Mr Minister, my questions are as follows. Are you aware of the difference in treatment between the two systems? Can the problems be resolved as quickly as possible? Again, I apologize for this technical question, but in 14 days, five people told me that they were being warned, but they didn't remember, or thought they had filled it out, but apparently they didn't.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u121	I am aware of the particularity in the handling of that type of applications. The specific arrangements for applying for an early retirement pension in the civil service system are indeed taken into account. Those specific modalities should indeed not create confusion for the applicant as regards the qualification of his application. The application submitted by an official to obtain his retirement pension at the highest possible date is indeed a pension application and not an application for a pension estimate. The communication to pensioners must be clear about this. All staff in the Department of Pension Rights of officials in contact with future pensioners were informed of this. As long as pension systems maintain their specific rules, it is necessary to take into account details. For example, the starting date may vary depending on the system, in the case of a mixed career, where pension rights are opened in different statutory pension schemes. However, these details should not prejudice the rights of the future pensioner. As a result of the merger, there is ever-closer cooperation between the departments dealing with civil servants' pensions and the services dealing with workers' pensions and an increasingly global examination of citizens' pension rights, taking into account the particularities of each system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u122	Thank you for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u123	Mr President, Minister, one of your next reforms is to standardize the buy-back of years of study for the calculation of the pension amount. It provides for the cost of 1,500 euros per year of study, whether civil servant, employee or self-employed. In my view, this harmonisation is to the detriment of workers. Once again, your target is the public service. Under the guise of "housing everyone to the same brand", you continue to lower the attractiveness of public service for workers, and especially for young people. Minister, when and how are you going to organise social consultation on this matter? What will be the conditions to be met to allow workers to buy back their years of education? What about people with multiple degrees? An article in a daily newspaper indicates that the project has been temporarily recalculated by the Council of Ministers. Can you tell me the reasons for that? Finally, will some civil servants be able to benefit from a more favourable scheme, such as teachers, or will all civil servants be on an equal footing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u124	Minister, as of 2016, everyone could count their years of study for the calculation of their pension. One would have to pay EUR 1 500 per year of study for this. I have the following questions for you. Could you give a more detailed explanation of your proposal to include the study years after payment for the calculation of the pension? Based on the press coverage, you opt for an immediate abolition of the diploma bonus for calculating the pension. It was due to start in 2017. You opt for this rather than for a gradual abolition, as was the case with the abolition of the diploma bonus for the calculation of the duration of the career. It doesn't go in until 2030. Can you explain why you're making this distinction? EUR 1 500 is a lump sum, regardless of study, any year, any specialization or whatever. Can you explain how you got this amount? Why 1 500? Why not 1 000 or 2 000? Are there any transitional measures? Are there exceptions for specific functions? I am thinking here of certain specializations. Has this already been the subject of social consultation, whether or not in the Belgian National Pension Committee? Have you made an estimate of the cost of this measure or of its possible return? How much does it cost the government to count the years of study? I'll leave that here in the middle. Can you clarify once again on the basis of which this calculation was made? Finally, Minister, do you think it is normal that this measure is only for the benefit of highly skilled people? Only they can bring in years of study. Just primary or secondary education isn't supposed to count as years of study. This means that only highly skilled people can buy off their careers. I want to remind you that high-skilled people live longer than low-skilled people anyway. Do you not think that this is some form of discrimination, as they can buy career years while someone who is low-skilled will not be able to do so? It does not have years of study, apart from the fact that it could do so financially.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u125	My questions also concern the regularization of study years. However, I would like to pick up on Mrs Temmerman, just for the sake of clarity, because I am a little confused by her wording. I thought the regularization of academic years or the purchase, as she calls it, only relates to the financial aspect and does not refer to the number of career years to be achieved. For example, one cannot suddenly retire five years earlier because one would have paid off five years of study. It will therefore be necessary to work for the same length of time, but to receive a higher pension if the years of study have been regularized.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u126	This has to do with graduation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u127	But that's a different aspect than buying it off. That's why I'm confused. Anyway, I have some questions about the regularization of academic years, all the more so because we have always advocated a similar new regime for all workers, whether they are employees, self-employed or civil servants. In the case of employees, about 250 would regularize their study years a year. Perhaps that number is not correct, but you will certainly correct it. Workers must decide, within ten years, whether or not to regularise their studies. At that time I was not advised, because I would have to pay too much for what I would get in return, and because I could not predict what my further career would look like. In retrospect, they were right. Besides, young people are often unable financially to regularize their study years. On the other hand, self-employed people can wait until the last moment to make an assessment and therefore have a better view of a number of factors. It's different for civil servants. It is therefore important that there is a similar arrangement. Minister, if I understand you correctly, you intend to harmonise the three systems. Has the National Pension Committee carried out any further research on this issue? In addition to the obvious difference that employees have to regularise their study years within 10 years and self-employed persons are not bound by that obligation, there is also an obligation that years of study completed by an applicant since the age of 20 may be regularised. Will this also apply to civil servants or will they be able to regularise years of study before they are 20? What's your intent? Are there any differences that remain or similarities that are extended in one direction or another? Will the reform take place in one move or will it be phased or phased? Are some measures being implemented in one move and others gradually? This question is somewhat related to the question of transition periods. I have the same question about the amount introduced, in particular 1 500 per year of study, as I understand. Are there any calculations on the yield for a regularized year? What does that mean in comparison with what self-employed and/or civil servants and/or employees are getting or buying off today? What is the budgetary assessment? I know it's hard to predict what that'll mean. However, I can imagine that there is a budgetary framework against the measures or that a budgetary framework has been established. What is the profit from the one system that is being adapted? What does that cause in the other system?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u128	Mr President, these questions allow me to give some clarification on this reform, which must contribute to the harmonisation of our three pension systems. In reply to Mrs Temmerman's question, I must stress that the diploma bonus for the calculation of pensions will not be abolished. It is true that the Pension Reform Committee had adopted a position aimed at abolishing the diploma bonus in all systems, not only for civil servants but also for employees and the self-employed. Study periods will not count in any statutory pension system. This implies the gradual abolition of diploma qualification in the civil service pension system and the simultaneous abolition of the possibility of regularising the years of study in the statutory pension system for employees and the self-employed. The government has decided not to follow this view of the Vandenbroucke Committee and to adhere to the principle of this bonification, which will allow all workers to value their years of study according to similar rules for the calculation of pensions. For employees, the purchase of years of study is currently only possible during the ten years following completion of studies. For the self-employed, this buy-back is possible until the end of the career. For civil servants, the diploma bonus is granted free of charge but only for the diploma required for the position held. The rules will therefore be harmonised between the statutes. The texts which will be subject to social consultation provide that all diplomas, even those which are not required for the function, may be taken into account in the calculation of the pension. Only one degree can be regularized and only for successful years of study. When regularisation takes place within ten years of completion of studies, the proposed contribution is EUR 1,500 per year to be regularised. This contribution is tax deductible. The amount of EUR 1,500 has been fixed in relation to the amount currently claimed by employees for the first 10 years. The assessment shall then be determined on an actuarial basis on the basis of the date on which the request for redemption is made. The regularisation of periods of study, which is currently possible for employees and self-employed persons only from the age of 20, can now cover any year of the diploma from the age of 18 years. Various transitional measures have already been provided for in favour of public sector officials. Free of charge shall be retained for persons who, on the date of entry into force of the new provisions, fulfil the conditions for obtaining an early retirement pension. The rights acquired shall be safeguarded to the extent that the years already completed continue to open the right to free bonification on the date of entry into force of the new provisions. Let me give you an example. An official with a four-year diploma who has completed three-quarters of a full career will receive a free three-year bonus for his diploma. For a period of three years from the entry into force of the new provisions, the flat-rate contribution will apply to officials who regularise for one or more years, even if this regularisation takes place more than 10 years after the completion of the studies. The official will also pay a reduced contribution if the payment takes place during the two years following the entry into force of the new provisions. In accordance with the Government Agreement, the principles of reform have been submitted to the National Pensions Committee, including the Special Public Sector Commission, where the federated entities are represented. Following discussions by the National Pension Committee, it was agreed to prepare draft texts to be submitted for social consultation according to the usual channels: Committee A (where the federated entities are also represented), Management Committee of the Federal Pension Service and General Management Committee for the Social Status of Self-Employed Workers. I can tell you that the social consultation on the texts will begin as soon as the preliminary draft law on the regularization of study periods for civil servants has been approved by the Council of Ministers at first reading. This is a complex issue for which time must be devoted to consultation. The aim is to move forward with the parallel entry into force of the texts in the three regions. The impact of the reform on both the career and the amount of the pension has been measured. Simulations at the beginning of concrete situations have been carried out in accordance with the demand of the social partners. In order to answer Mrs Becq's questions, the rights acquired by regularization, whether on a flat-rate basis or on an actuarial basis, these are those resulting from the system in which the regularisation took place. For an official, each regularised year represents 1/60th of the salary which serves as the basis for the pension calculation. The impact of regularisation thus differs from civil servant to civil servant, as is the case with the self-employed, while for the employees 1/45th of the guaranteed minimum monthly income multiplied by 60% or 74 percent each year, depending on the family situation. The current texts do not provide for exceptions for specific functions or a more advantageous system for certain officials. The SFP has assessed the budgetary impact of these measures as they will be subject to social consultation. This impact, which mainly results from regularisation contributions, was set at 25.3 million in 2017, 25.6 million in 2018, and 6.3 million in 2019. However, as Ms Becq points out, it is difficult to predict the behaviour of individuals and to determine in advance the number of regularizations that will occur. Therefore, the estimates that have been used correspond to the minimum estimates provided by the administration, especially since in fact, a transitional period of 45 years is being introduced. Indeed, the rights acquired during the career are taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u129	First of all, minister, I assume we will be able to obtain the various assessments that have been made, either here as part of the record or with the bill when it comes to the table of Parliament. Having said that, I have heard your explanations and the details of them. I can only deplore this measure and this project. The latter will have the effect of reducing the purchasing power of citizens, either by the contribution they will have to pay, or by not paying it, by a reduction in their pension. Citizens will therefore be penalized by this measure, which is once again of a budgetary nature. We also note that your principle of harmonization, as reflected in the government declaration, is downward harmonisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u130	Minister, I will look forward to your legislative proposals with great interest. I think there's an inequality in it that is du jamais vu, really to the detriment of people who are low-skilled. In any case, they will work longer than the highly skilled. In addition, the highly skilled have higher wages and pensions and will be able to improve their pension by purchasing a number of years of study. Diplomacy is partially abolished. On the other hand, it comes in in a very strange way. Will one be able to pay for it throughout the career or only in the beginning? Gedurende heel career?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u131	They will be able to pay for the first ten years on lump-sum terms. [[And for the rest, under actuarial conditions.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u132	How is this calculation going to be made?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u133	They are tables of classical mortality, of actuarial calculation, so that the pension rights they constitute are actually contributed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u134	I think there will still be a great deal of discussion when this comes to Parliament. I wish you every success in the social dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u135	I agree with that last point. I think you have had a lot of discussions, but I believe that they will continue to exist in the future. It is certainly not an obvious operation. I think we can certainly acknowledge that. It is a change in the situation for officials, who will certainly be at their disadvantage, although you will always repeat that there will be no decline for officials. For a number of situations it will mean less rights. We thought harmonisation was important, because it would indeed be an attempt to treat all professions or categories in a similar way. I would also like to look at the details, because it is not always clear to me in your oral reply how the distribution is, how harmonisation is done and what the payments are. You say that it can be flat-rate for the first ten years and then actuarially. Does this mean that at the end of the journey the calculation can be made and that a cost-benefit analysis can be made, as is the case today with the self-employed, I think? Here too, the costs and benefits are calculated. Is that more expensive than having done so in the 11th year? Those questions remain a little unclear. It is not always clear what this means when it comes to phasing out, as in the case of officials. We'll look into that thoroughly together and discuss it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u136	Mr President, Minister, in De Tijd of 23 September you really kicked in an open door when you said that the statutory pension is no longer enough for a carefree old age. We'd figured that out a long time ago. It's a good thing you finally realized it, too. You are also partly the cause of this problem. As a solution, you propose to the social partners to exchange the company's premium for a higher supplementary pension. I would have liked to have had a little more explanation on this proposal. I would also like to remind you that you first made the supplementary pension less attractive, because you reduced the guaranteed return. Nor should I refer you to a whole pack of officials. For the contractual partners, we would soon change that, but ordinary civil servants do not have a supplementary pension, not to mention low-wage workers, of which 80% do not have a supplementary pension. If they already have one, that supplementary pension is very low. I am therefore very interested in how you will make this supplementary pension more attractive. I hope that we will not again reward those who already have a high pension and who will therefore have an additional additional supplementary pension. In view of the measures that this government has already taken several times, I fear.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u137	Minister, my question is very much in line with that of my colleague. Indeed, I will begin with her by saying that we share a finding: the legal pension does not manage to secure old days without financial worries. And yet, you continue to tackle the statutory pension system. The Government's intention is clearly not to strengthen the first pillar, but to weaken it and favour private pension systems. Your last exit is a fine example. You suggest, at the next meetings of the Group of Ten, rather than raising the wages of workers, and therefore the amount of their legal pension: "The social partners should direct the margins towards private pension plans." It should be noted, however, that while the statutory pension system benefits all workers, private systems benefit only some. Once again, with this proposal, you demonstrate your desire to favour private insurance at the expense of the legal pension. I would like to obtain some additional information on the reason for your exit, if you already have evidence that we are moving forward in this direction. When you talk about the possibility of a tax framework favourable to strengthening the second pillar, what are you thinking about? It should be recalled that the Court of Auditors referred to the non-social and unfair nature of the second pillar in relation to a social role which the pension must assume.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u138	Mr President, I would like to answer all the questions that we want, but the petitions in principle seem to me a little easy. On the contrary, I maintain and reiterate that without the reforms that we have undertaken, the legal pension was really threatened in our country. Today, it is guaranteed. All we have done so far was to strengthen the legal pension, contrary to what some claim. They're not always in good faith, I think. What we have done is to ensure both the financial sustainability of the system and the social performance of the system. We have made sure that no one sees their legal pension decrease. So far, all the examples – I can provide all the examples of all the cases – prove that the pension between 2016 and 2015 has increased for everyone. You really have to stop saying things that are contrary to the truth from time to time. I find that opposing legal pension and supplementary pension has no basis, except ideologically. You can be ideological, doctrinal and dogmatic and consider it that way. But I do not see how strengthening the statutory pension would not be compatible with strengthening the supplementary pension as well. Both are necessary, because we need to know how to allocate the risks. My proposal is inspired by the report of the Pension Reform Committee, which states the following: "In the private sector, a certain percentage of real wage increases should be systematically used over the next 15 years for contributions to sectoral supplementary pension plans until a contribution level of 3% has been reached in each sector. This obligation can be understood in a multi-annual perspective, but must be made binding. The government could ask the interprofessional negotiators to make a firm commitment to this agreement in the interprofessional consultations. The quote is on page 177 of the report. The social partners could thus set themselves the objective of calculating, after one or more inter-professional agreements, a financing of supplementary pensions in sectors of 3% of employees' wages. This development of supplementary pensions at sectoral level is important in order to target workers who currently do not receive a supplementary pension - I admit that there are inequalities and that not everyone benefits from them. The aim is to ensure that everyone can benefit from it, whether at the level of the business sector or to strengthen the level of financing of existing supplementary pensions. In order to do this, it is important to devote a larger share of the wage bill to supplementary pensions. This issue of allocating part of the wage margin to the financing of supplementary pensions is all the more important since, as I recall, we are currently in a transitional phase which must lead us, by 1 January 2025 at the latest, to the elimination of the differences in treatment based on the distinction between workers and employees in supplementary pensions. This gradual abolition was unanimously agreed by the social partners and acted on in the National Labour Council's Opinion 1893 of 12 February 2014. The first evaluation report on progress made at sectoral level in the field of abolition, recently transmitted by the National Labour Council, shows that the sectors have begun their work. The time has therefore come to send a signal to the sectors in order to encourage them to continue their work and effectively eliminate differences in treatment. It should also be noted that for the period 2015-2016, although no interprofessional agreement could be reached, the social partners, not including the ABBRD, had already advised the sectors and/or companies in a social agreement to use the pay margin of 0,5% more specifically for the financing of supplementary pensions. I would point out that the budgetary impact on the financing of social security and on domestic consumption of the transformation of direct wages into deferred insurance premiums will not be negative, since the revenue from social security contributions and the purchasing power of workers will not diminish. Indeed, this concerns only wage increases, and again, only a part of them. In addition, supplementary pension contributions are themselves subject to a social security contribution of 8.86 % and a tax on insurance operations of 4.4%. Supplementary pension benefits are also subject to social security contributions, INAMI contributions and solidarity contributions. They're taxed. Finally, I would like to pay particular attention to the reflection you are discussing on possible measures concerning the investment policy of pension funds in the context of the transposition of the DIR2 directive on the activities and supervision of occupational pension institutions. I now come to supplementary pensions. The reduction of interest rates: it was the social partners who endorsed it, and even decided - they submitted it to us and we accepted it. Why was it? To make the supplementary pensions again attractive, precisely. Calculating a supplementary pension for which contributions were made for 40 years, out of one, three or five years of rate, makes no sense. Complementary pensions do not work like this. When we take the average rates over the last 40 years, past years are of course recorded. The 40-year return today is in the range of 5% to 6%. Let us stop pretending that it has no interest; on the contrary, it has a lot of interest. This increases purchasing power. Once again, the fact of strengthening the legal pillar does not, of course, prevent the democratisation of the complementary pillar. I say that this remains a complementary pillar: it is his name, moreover. This is complementary to the legal pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u139	Mr President, Minister, you asked for an example. I can give you several, but I will give you one example where the pension has been reduced. You have abolished the pension bonus, which has reduced the pension. One has to work longer for less money. You ask for an example, you have one here and there are several in that sense. You say the truth must be told. Well, this is the truth, too. Secondly, if you say that the first pillar, the statutory pension, is not enough for a carefree old age, then the first measure you have to take is to strengthen the statutory pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u140	Maybe it's written in the paper, but I never said that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u141	It's actually in the paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u142	I'm getting tired of it. It's easy to say, "You said this or that." I didn't even give an interview. I simply said that the current legal pension does not allow for the same life course as during the period of activity. It's still the reality! We're at 60%.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u143	That is indeed the reality. I also quoted De Tijd. By not granting wages now, you will not strengthen that first pillar. By not granting the salary your pension also reduces in the end. Secondly, Minister, you have read the Court of Auditors' report on supplementary pensions. We even had a hearing on that. The Presidents and my fellow Members remember that. What was the problem there? Many small employers, SMEs, are unable to pay this supplementary pension for all kinds of reasons: too much administrative work, not knowing how to deal with it, not knowing it, etc. So that's not really a solution. What the Court of Auditors' report says is that it is very important that income is lost, because it can be subtracted in another way, which reduces social contributions, and so we call that the loss of income. The loss of income that is spent on it leads to a supplementary pension for those who are least in need of it. It's those people who already had a high wage during their careers. It is those people who currently also have a high pension. The same persons will therefore have a high supplementary pension. If we want to have a high full-time pension, the first and second pillars together, then the first pillar is not currently a solution. That is said in the Court of Auditors' report. It is said that something must be done about this because it is not a solution. You say: 'No, we are going to strengthen that second pillar.' Once again, the Court of Auditors' report states that this is counterproductive. That's not for those who are short on pensions. This reinforces the people who already have a good pension. Finally, Minister, you are always defending the Vandenbroucke report and saying that this report suggests this. Let me clarify very clearly the four principles of this report. You really need to reread it. Firstly, there must be broad social support for a major pension reform. One should not We must have a general plan covering the various aspects, and the farmer must be involved in it. You don't have a plan, and you don't take it out on the farmer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u144	But we have a plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u145	I haven't seen a plan yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u146	And the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u147	That's not a plan. Secondly, social dialogue is very important in this respect. What you are constantly doing is putting the social partners at least two of them back against the wall. That's not social consultation. Thirdly, the pension report also says that we must stop telling people that pensions are not affordable and that they will no longer have a pension. One should also stop saying that everyone will have to take care of their pensions individually. This is what you are doing again with supplementary pensions. It is society that must ensure that society can retire. That's what the report says. And last but not least, Minister and fellow Members of the Government, the pension report also states that, in order to keep it affordable, we must not only count on the contributions of labour but also on the contributions of capital. Certainly I have never heard you say that, Minister. So if you quote the Vandenbroucke pension report again, I would like you to take the four principles, especially the latter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u148	Mr Minister, first of all, I obviously cannot agree and follow the reasoning that, no doubt, your reforms to the first pension pillar were at risk. Secondly, if the two pillars were strengthened, I would be in favour. But you slide from the first to the second. An example was cited. This proposal is another example and the mixed pension is a third example. These are examples that clearly show that it is your reform logic to weaken the first pillar and to favour the second. Thirdly, I end with a little bit. We'll end up not calling you "the Minister of Pensions" anymore, but "the Minister of Pension Funds." These are already some examples and some reforms in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u149	You will find more at your friends in Liege's socialists!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic496x.u150	The remaining questions Nos 13890, 13915, 13916 and 13934 by Mrs Temmerman are converted into written questions.
