ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u1	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, on 27 November last, the Spouses Without Papers in Resistance (ESPER) platform organised a morning of discussion and reflection on the issue of double violence against migrant women who are victims of domestic or domestic violence. The objective of the day was to raise awareness and inform all actors affected by the problem, to enable them to exchange their practices on the ground, to reflect on concrete avenues for action and to stimulate collaboration between them. As a reminder, I asked you about this on the occasion of last year's International Day for Women's Rights. You then replied: "The Institute for Gender Equality has drawn up a draft strategy for the future multi-year national action plan to combat gender-based violence, which is currently being submitted to the members of the government. The Foreign Office participated in the working group set up within this framework. The Foreign Office has appointed a Family Regroupement Counsellor as a contact point to set up a network of agents specialising in the various subjects managed by the Foreign Office. It will define the guidelines and possible measures, according to the priorities set by the hierarchy and the topics concerned." Mr Secretary of State, can you tell me what is the status of this draft strategy for this future multi-year national action plan to combat gender-based violence? What measures have been taken by the Family Regroupment Counsellor since the beginning of this initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u2	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Kir, the Office of Foreigners has designated a contact person within the Access and Stay Directorate and, more specifically, within its Family Regroupement section. The Institute for the Equality of Women and Men has not communicated to me the strategy on which the various governments have been able to agree. I therefore invite you to speak directly to the Institute or to Mrs Sleurs, Secretary of State for Gender Policy. The Foreign Office is also waiting to have more information on this strategy before making contacts and proposing concrete measures. In the present state of the case, he stands ready to answer, within the limits of his competence, the questions to be asked. Having said that, I would like to point out that this multi-year plan to combat gender-based violence was presented at the end of December 2015 to the Prime Minister's office and is now on Ms.Sleurs' website. I was also present at the press conference to explain about migration and asylum.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. I am pleased that a person has been designated within the administration as a contact person to form a network of specialized agents. As far as the concrete measures are concerned, you refer to the plan presented in December and to the Secretary of State. I will not fail to question him about this aspect of things. As for the creation of a network of specialized agents, do you have any additional elements of answers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u4	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u5	I will therefore come back to you later to find out how this person works in the administration to address this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u6	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, at the beginning of December 2015, the Hungarian government launched a press campaign attacking, in very harsh terms, refugees and their allocation by quotas within the European Union. Last October, it erected an anti-migrant barbed wire fence on its Serbian and Croatian borders, allowing the army and police to use non-lethal weapons against migrants under certain conditions. Nevertheless, on the basis of this information, between 1 January and 30 November 2015, 30 asylum seekers were forcibly returned to Hungary, 29 of whom were sent under the Dublin Regulation, according to the spokesperson for the Foreigners' Office. According to Article 3(2) of the Dublin III Regulation: "Where it is impossible to transfer an applicant to the Member State originally designated as responsible, because there are serious grounds to believe that there are systemic shortcomings in the asylum procedure in that Member State and the reception conditions for applicants who involve a risk of inhuman or degrading treatment within the meaning of Article 4 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, the Member State determining the responsible State shall continue to examine the criteria set out in Chapter 3 in order to determine whether another State can be designated as responsible. Where it is not possible to transfer the applicant to a designated State on the basis of those criteria or to the first State to which the application was lodged, the Member State making the determination shall become the responsible State." Recently, the European Court of Human Rights suspended, by provisional measures, three transfers to Hungary. On the basis of this information, I would like to ask you the following questions. Mr Secretary of State, would you have more information in your possession on the treatment of asylum applications in Hungary? Would it not be appropriate to suspend such expulsions, like the Council of State of the Netherlands? In Hungary, removals to Hungary involve the risk of inhuman or degrading treatment and implicitly the violation of article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights: "No one may be subjected to torture or inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u7	Mr Kir, I stick to the principle of trust between States with regard to Hungary. We do not have enough reason to suspend Dublin transfers to Hungary. Each transfer decision (...) In addition, I can inform you that, despite the position of the Netherlands, countries such as Germany are still taking decisions to transfer Dublin to Hungary, as well as other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u8	Minister, I take note of your answer. You speak of the principle of trust with your colleagues, which we can understand of course. The Netherlands, for its part, makes use of an article of the Dublin III Regulation and highlights the real risk of inhuman or degrading treatment, which is in violation of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. I have heard your position, but what do you think of the attitude of the Netherlands, which makes the Convention on Human Rights play and gives up sending people back to Hungary?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u9	We remain within the framework of Dublin transfers to Hungary. The Netherlands has taken another decision; that is their choice. But we are acting as we have always done in the past and as other governments have done. We are implementing the Dublin Treaty. But the remedy of the (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u10	In many European countries, including ours, there are many European exchange programmes in the field of education and culture. We also work very closely with other countries within and outside the European Union in the field of youth and volunteering. The Erasmus+ programme brings foreign young people to our country with its various projects to volunteer. The things they learn here, they can apply in their country. Conversely, for decades, Belgian young people have been going abroad to volunteer there. In May 2014, my proposal on volunteering was adopted as a law. It gave asylum seekers the opportunity to volunteer. Before that, it was not possible for them and other groups or very complicated. I remember the discussions with other groups on this issue. They pointed out that volunteering in itself should not be an element in obtaining a residence permit. That was obvious. Volunteering did not give entitlement to residence in the framework of regularisation. But now it appears that DVZ interprets the passage in the law very widely. He doesn't even issue visas to people who want to come to Belgium in the context of volunteering, studies or culture. That was never the intention of the legislative amendment. Volunteering of foreign young people or others should also be possible in our country. I received that signal from various organisations such as JINT and the Flemish Youth Council. Is the information correct? How come DVZ interprets it like that? There is no longer even a visa for a limited period of time. Volunteering is always limited to a number of months. How will you solve the problem? Will you give DVZ the directive that such a policy was not intended by law and certainly not in accordance with the spirit of the law? Or do you think we should amend or clarify the law again? Do you think a legislative initiative is necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u11	Following the entry into force of the law of 20 May 2014 on voluntary service, the DVZ had to clarify the cases in which it would actually allow an authorisation to reside internally and for the municipalities and diplomatic posts. However, after the adoption of the said law until clear directives were in place, some applications could have been rejected. First and foremost, a distinction must be made between exchange programmes and voluntary work. Exchange projects such as Erasmus+ are not merely voluntary work, because it is about the exchange of students. The main goal is then the exchange. During this exchange, students may be able to volunteer. The application is therefore examined on the basis of exchange. If the exchange is approved or supported by European or Belgian recognised government programmes, a visa shall be granted provided that there is no danger to public policy or public health and provided that the means of subsistence are sufficiently proven. In most cases, a recognised institution takes charge of the alien, but if the judgment, certificate or if it is unclear, it may constitute grounds for refusal. A second type of volunteering is the work carried out by volunteers supported by the European Voluntary Service (EVS). This category of volunteering has nothing to do with exchange, but is also generally permitted provided that there is no danger to public order, public health and if the means of subsistence have been proven. A third category of volunteering is carried out by volunteers who do not come under one of these structures. Those volunteers cannot, in principle, be entitled to a provisional stay authorisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, when we passed the bill in the previous legislature, you were also a Member of Parliament. At that time, we worked hard to make voluntary work possible. Of course, the concern was taken into account that people who had been here illegally for years and would then be legalized would not have been able to say that they had volunteered to be taken into account for a residence permit. Conversely, it was not intended to stop people who could come to our country without problems from volunteering. Minister, I have no problem with a number of conditions regarding volunteering. However, it must remain possible, as before the law on voluntary service was established, for the category of persons to whom it was previously allowed to volunteer in our country and to return to it, as it is always temporary, to do so. I hope you will give that clarification to the DVZ. I ask nothing more than the same situation for volunteering as before.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u13	I'll see if the policy is tighter now. I honestly do not remember that debate in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u14	That debate was held in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u15	I wrote it down and I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u17	Mr Secretary of State, this question is in line with my previous question. Since May 2014, not only recognised refugees, but also asylum seekers can volunteer. That is a good thing, because volunteering increases people's self-reliance. It is also evident from several studies that those who do volunteering have a much better chance of getting a job. Especially for women, it is very positive if they can mention volunteering on their CV. Even for a typical Belgian or Fleming that is the case, let alone for someone who hasn't been here long. Moreover, volunteering takes people out of isolation. Especially at this time, when the shelters are often overcrowded, it is important that people have something to do, such as volunteering in the centre or outside, for example, helping the children's school party, in an association, in a service flat for the elderly, in a care centre for the sick, and so on. All kinds of voluntary work are possible in principle, but I note that until today there is not much use of the scheme. I've already asked a question about that. You replied that Fedasil had sent around an instruction in May 2015 and that there would also be a manual. What effect has Fedasil's instruction had on volunteering? In the meantime, is there a manual to further promote volunteering? What initiatives are you or Fedasil working out, together with Minister Peeters, who is also partly responsible for volunteering? How will you work with local authorities to make it clear that asylum seekers living on their territory are allowed to volunteer? How will you ensure that asylum seekers and associations know that so that supply and demand can be matched? For example, asylum seekers could be given a list of voluntary associations where they might be able to lend a hand. Some municipalities, such as Antwerp, have a database. This is a good tool, but it can also be done through a volunteering hotline, where supply and demand are brought together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u18	Fedasil encourages the residents to volunteer. For this purpose, Fedasil provides information on the possibility of volunteering in the neighbourhood and on the rights and obligations associated with volunteering. The social worker can do this himself or direct the resident to the support points for volunteering. These support points can help candidate volunteers to find activities that match their competences and preferences. The social worker must also be vigilant in order to prevent any abuse of volunteering. In case of doubt about abuse, the social worker will inform the resident and, if necessary, refer him to a support point for volunteering. The Fedasil reception partners also contribute to raising awareness of the possibility of volunteering as many asylum seekers as possible. There is a clear increase in the interest in volunteering by asylum seekers. However, no centralised information is available on the number of voluntary residents. We don't know who's officially working in the asylum centres. That's why the link with the KSZ is so necessary, let alone that we know who's doing volunteer work. It's bad to say that, but it's a fact. This information shall be kept at centre level in the social file of the person concerned. Fedasil has developed several brochures to inform the general public and the municipal authorities. The brochures for the general public are mainly distributed during activities in the reception centres or sent to people who request them via the website. Two brochures are available:Reception of asylum seekers in Belgium and Reception Centres: a manual. The brochures for the municipalities were published at the end of 2015 to provide information to the municipalities that receive or already have a reception centre for asylum seekers. Two brochures are available in this context:A reception centre in your municipality and Opening a reception structure for asylum seekers. We have done a lot of work on better informing or streamlining information for local authorities and local residents on everything related to asylum and asylum authorities. As far as your specific question on volunteering is concerned, it will be dealt with there. Specifically, on 8 June 2015, a meeting was held with Eva Hambach, director of the Flemish Volunteers Support Point and chairman of the High Council for Volunteers, Gaëtane Convent, coordinator of the Plate-form francophone du volontariat and Fedasil to present the framework paper and the instruction on volunteering and to exchange views on sensitisation of asylum seekers and voluntary organisations. The new domestic regulations also provide for the possibility of volunteering and lays down the modalities for doing so on the basis of the reception structure. The framework note and the instruction on volunteering were also sent to all those responsible for the LOIS in the municipalities. The brochure A reception centre in your municipality informs the municipality that asylum seekers have the right to volunteer. This is done through the social workers of the reception capacities and the support points and platforms for volunteering. We have therefore already done a great deal in this area. You ask for numbers, but I don't.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u19	Mr Secretary of State, I will not ask for it for the time being and will wait. Is that framework note the handbook you proposed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u20	That framework note is the instruction. I was hoping I could bring them to you, but I didn't bring them. I'll get them to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u21	That's good, so I can take a look at them. Unfortunately, not all social assistants have yet effectively informed asylum seekers that they can do voluntary work, which they admit to themselves. It happens, but not everywhere. And I know it's important that it's given.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u22	Normally, it happens at the intake.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u23	I also know that an asylum seeker will not volunteer immediately from the first day, but after a month in the center he will want something to do. It is therefore important that it is made known at the right time that he can volunteer. This also brings people out of their isolation. And it's also better for the support, people are getting to know each other and people from the municipality are going to see that it's about people who really want to lend a hand and who want to participate in all kinds of activities in the municipality. And that can only have an advantage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u24	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, on Saturday, December 19, the press reported the suicide of a Congolese asylum-seeker in the closed centre of Vottem, while he was going to undergo a second attempt at expulsion. Some 200 people appeared on that day in front of the closed centre of Vottem in tribute to the detainee of Congolese origin who committed suicide in a shower of the institution, according to the spokesman of the Collective of Resistance to the Centres for Foreigners (CRACPE). This Congolese refugee candidate was going to undergo his second expulsion attempt on Sunday. The press's statement by France Arets, spokesman for CRACPE, said: "This man has been in Belgium since 2000. We believe that if he committed suicide, it was because there was a second attempt at expulsion. If he had been outside, surrounded by his friends, he would probably not have ended his days." Mr Secretary of State, this is a dramatic event, which shows the distress of the rejected applicants and the harshness of the repatriation policy. This tragedy brings with it several questions. First, how many similar events, suicide or attempted, have occurred in closed centres since their inception? What measures are being taken to prevent these acts of despair? What are the social and psychological support measures for persons detained in these centres? How many people are in charge of this accompaniment? What are their qualifications? Is this number sufficient? For Fedasil's staff, these are also difficult circumstances. What measures are being taken against them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u25	Mr Kir, I have the honour to provide you with the following information. At the outset, I would like to make it clear that there is no indication that I would suspect this tragedy. Residents close to the deceased were equally surprised by this act. Psychomedical teams work in closed centres to provide better support to residents, especially those with specific needs. Since 1988, five people have committed suicide in closed centres: one in 2004, two in 2008 and two in 2015. Since 2000, we have recorded 206 suicide attempts out of a total of 114,781 residents. Vulnerable groups and individuals likely to have suicidal tendencies are monitored as closely as possible through various measures. One of these is psychosocial support offered by the multidisciplinary team working in the centres and by the general coordination unit of the closed centres. Residents can count on the quality assistance provided by the above-mentioned team, which consists of psychologists, psychologists, social and medical services. The Commission, as well as other staff, receive information on suicide prevention. In addition, guidelines on specific interventions and interactions are being developed to adopt a universal approach to residents with a particular profile. In addition, they are entitled to individual medical, social and psychological support during their stay in a closed centre. The multidisciplinary team is responsible for their follow-up. The number of staff involved depends on the capacity of each centre. If necessary, psychologists can intervene in several centres. In addition, contracts are entered into between psychiatric institutions and closed centres. Admission to such a care facility may be decided upon the advice of the centre's doctor or psychologist. Persons whose return is expected to be difficult or cannot be organized within the time limits prescribed by law shall be released in order to be able to take care of them in a specialized institution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u26	Secretary of State, I can hear your answers. I see that important work is being done at the team level. Let me point out, however, that the problem is more than real. The figures you are presenting to us today are dramatic. There were two suicides in 2015, while since 1988, so almost thirty years ago, there were five. There was one suicide in 2004, two in 2008 and two in 2015. That's the sign that there's something to worry about. Clearly, the distress of the unsuccessful applicants is real. We must also be able to say that the harshness of the repatriation policy is not without its impact. I invite you to review the policy because if these suicides were to continue in 2016, it would be really serious. Every life is sacred and it is a collective failure for society as a whole. I invite you to take all social and psychological measures to prevent the recurrence in 2016 of what happened in 2015. I recall this sentence of the spokesman of CRACPE: "If he had been outside, surrounded by his friends, he would probably never have ended his days." In your policy, the human approach should be more important, especially in exceptional situations as we have just described.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u27	There were two suicide deaths last year, two very dramatic deaths. To recover them politically about the return policy of this government is for me a very low level. In 2008, there were two suicide deaths, too. I remember. The PS was in the government. This is a recovery of two suicides, which I can't bear. Secondly, can it be said that if they had been released, they would not have committed suicide? I'm not saying that staying in the closed center is a pleasant time in a human life. But two years ago, it wasn't nice either. What's the alternative? Open borders? No closed centres, no evictions? No forced return? Is this the alternative of the PS? How do we make a return policy? We organise the return on a voluntary basis if possible, and mandatory if necessary. In a few cases, it's necessary. The target group is criminals and offenders. I heard yesterday in the newspaper the PS say that this is discrimination. Making a target group with criminals and people who are in prison to repatriate them when they do not have the right of residence in Belgium is racism. I'll do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u28	You mustn't get so excited. I just said a number of things. If you want us to hold a debate on the policy that you have been conducting since the beginning of the legislature, we can do so. I have already had the opportunity to explain to you many times that you often come with prejudices on these populations. We have already exchanged on the subject. Today, the debate is not that, but the debate on a dramatic situation that we experienced in 2015. I didn't say you were personally responsible for this situation. I didn't do recovery at any time. I told you, and I repeat with strength and conviction that if things were to happen again in 2016, we could really ask ourselves questions. There have already been two cases in 2015: it's huge. In 2008, it was also huge. One case is already too much in this respect. What I invite you to do is take steps to ensure that it does not happen again. I would remind you that in this case, there had already been a first attempt. When we listen to the people who accompany around this case, they explain that if that person had had the opportunity to be with his own, we wouldn't have gotten there. I am not saying that the work done by psychologists, social workers and all the workers in the centres should be called into question here. But I say that this is a problem since two cases occurred in 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u29	Mr President, Secretary of State, in the December Council of Ministers, the Federal Government has adopted a series of measures relating to refugee candidates. These measures include limiting the refugee's right of residence to a period of five years, as well as signing a document of adherence to our fundamental values, including freedom of expression, religion and philosophy; equality between men and women; separation of the Church and the State; acceptance of the rule of law and the sovereignty of the State; and respect for the emotional orientations. In the light of this information, my questions are as follows. What difference do you make between this draft new status and the subsidiary protection status, introduced since October 2006, which already provides for a duration of stay limited to one year, renewable each year depending on the evolution or not of the situation in the applicant's country of origin? I would therefore like to understand how you organize this measure in relation to the one taken in 2006 and following its course. Moreover, would it not be more appropriate, rather than imposing a charter of adherence to values, to carry out a more general reflection on the right to work of asylum seekers and on all the public infrastructures that actually allow the real integration of persons who have been recognised as refugees?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u30	Mr Secretary of State, I also have a question about the five-year temporary residence status for refugees. The government, and so you too, decided at the end of 2015 that, from now on, recognised refugees will no longer be able to reside indefinitely in our country. This will initially be only for five years, with a possibility of extension after a decision of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. Furthermore, recognition can also be withdrawn by the Foreign Affairs Office more quickly than the five-year period if it appears that the situation in the home country has improved remarkably, there is therefore no longer a threat and the refugee status can therefore be withdrawn. The amendment also affects the family members of refugees who come here as part of family reunification, because they are given the same status as the family member who has been recognised here. Mr Secretary of State, do you have any idea to what extent the measure, which I believe is a very good measure and which has long been applicable in many other countries, will affect the number of asylum applications, the number of asylum applicants in Belgium? Exceptions can be made for those who are anchored in our society. Can you outline to me the criteria for the derogation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u31	Mr President, I shall now turn to the question of the temporary status. Mr Kir, in your second written question, you ask whether it is not more appropriate, rather than stigmatizing some via a charter of values, focusing on a real reflection on the right to work, etc. This isn't the first time, but I really can't follow the PS. You always talk about stigma. This charter of values is given to all first-time arrivals in Belgium, whether in Wallonia, Brussels or Flanders. In Flanders, this has been done for several years already, for more than fifteen years. You're saying it's stigma. When we talk about giving a course to asylum seekers on how to treat women, your Minister PS, who is herself a woman and who is competent in matters of equality between women and men, believes that it is racism. I've got class with me. I'll put it at your disposal. On the other hand, I had a discussion yesterday with Mr Crusnière – I hope he will come – who tells me that returning criminals to prison is discrimination, racism. Really, I can't follow you anymore. We must deal with the biggest humanitarian crisis since the Second World War. It's not easy, but we do. It is clear that we must take action like all other countries. Their governments are left or right, no matter what. All countries are taking action for the time being and are considering a charter of values or courses designed to promote equality between men and women and to inculcate human rights. Similarly, they are all working on the issue of return, which I hope will be voluntary - because it is more sustainable, more efficient and less expensive. It's not always easy, especially when criminals don't want to go back home. Therefore, to talk systematically about discrimination, racism and stigma does not seem to me to be the correct way of putting this debate and resolving this humanitarian crisis. It's only a personal reflection. Mr. Kir, Mevrouw Smeyers, on the issue of temporary status, first of all, it is important to distinguish between refugee or subsidiary protection status and residence permit. No duration is linked to refugee or subsidiary protection status. The status remains valid as long as there is a need for protection. This status may, however, be terminated or withdrawn if the conditions laid down by law are met. For example, in the event of termination of status, where the change of circumstances prevailing in the country of origin is sufficiently significant and not provisional. One has a statute, but one can always lose it, for example if the situation in the home country stabilizes. The residence permit is something else. That is not what the protection status is about. The residence permit follows from the protection status. With regard to residence permits, the current situation is as follows: refugees recognized under the Geneva Convention are granted an indefinite residence permit. Persons granted subsidiary protection were initially granted a fixed-term residence permit and after five years, if the conditions were still met, a permanent residence permit. The Government's proposal is to limit the right of residence to a recognized refugee to a first five-year period. An indefinite residence permit will only be granted if it appears after five years that the need for protection still exists. In other words, the residence permit following protection is valid for a temporary stay for the first five years. That's what it's about. The protection itself is not in the hands of the government, but of the Commissariat, an independent institution. The withdrawal of any protection or recognition status as a refugee also depends on the Commissariat. We don't touch that, it doesn't depend on the Foreign Office. The residence itself is first a temporary stay for the first five years, as is the case in the vast majority of European countries, including France, where the PS is in power. Many other countries are adapting that too. I think that's a very logical decision. The draft is now before the Council of State and before the Easter holidays I'll put it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u32	Mr President, Mr Franken, you always have the same habit, when you are in trouble, of going back to the past and the PS. No one here thinks you're part of the PS. So stop using the PS argument all the time. What you are accused of – I think I'm not the only one in this committee, it's also the case of other formations – is your attitude, your behaviour on this issue. Your policies are all marked by prejudices, prejudices on immigrants and refugees. You could also highlight the positive things that immigration and refugees bring. When the universities came to present their report on the integration of refugees in our country, we realized that in your region, Flanders, it is thanks to the contribution of the political, Maghreb and Black African refugees that we can do the work of picking apples and pears in the remote areas of Flanders. Without their input, without this workforce, this local economy would be in crisis. And we also see in this report something very positive, which we do not report enough – and I thank the press for being present today –: we see that after four years, refugees who are initially passive in relation to the consumption of social security, become producers of wealth and bring a plus to the Belgian State. This is also the contribution of immigration and political refugees. You come here to teach us about values. But, Mr Franken, the Brussels-Capital Region, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation or even Flanders did not wait for you to talk about the values to refugees and immigrants as part of the integration journey. This explanation is given. What is unbearable,...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u33	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u34	Mrs Lanjri, I understand, but that was one of Mr Francken's reactions. I would also like to say that sexism is not the prerogative of foreigners, refugees. This exists throughout society! It is shocking to give the impression that with them this question arises in an increased way. Sexism is a problem in our society against which we must have national plans. Finally, on what you say at the level of prisons: we are against double punishment. That's the big difference between you and us. When a person has been tried by a judge, we are against double punishment. While you, as I said earlier, and this is my conclusion to this reply, in all that you present to us here, you always give the impression that the foreigner is a problem. It's for us unbearable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u35	Anything!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u36	That's what you just did.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u37	I think it is a pity that all the issues and all the measures here are being thrown into a pile.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u38	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u39	He's asking questions. The second question is about that course.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u40	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u41	Mr Secretary of State, it is good that this measure is being taken. You'll be bringing it to Parliament for the Easter holidays. You have not yet said anything about the possible derogations. We will then have the opportunity to exchange views at that time. The measure is more than necessary. In all the other European countries, they have been there for a long time. That's just normal. She's inspired by reality. The residence permit must be limited in time as long as the situation in the home country so requires. That's only logical. It now seems as if you are carrying out one strict measure after another. That is only because we need to make a catch-up with all the other European countries that are far beyond that strict human migration policy. That's too bad. One creates the perception that you are the extreme right-wing Secretary of State who is only trying to stigmatize. Mr Kir says the Secretary of State is stigmatizing and prejudiced. You idealize the influx of refugees, Mr Kir. The truth lies in the middle and it has its rights. All the measures on the table are based on reality. Otherwise, they wouldn't have a majority behind them either. In my view, this measure is far too late. You can't work faster either. We didn't have a majority in favour of this measure before, now we do. I look forward to the texts that will be submitted before the Easter holiday in Parliament. We will support them wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u42	Debates of the European Parliament 8169 by Mr Crusnière will be dealt with shortly. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Ducarme's 8185 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 8265) by Mrs Lanjri and others: Mrs De Coninck's 8588 will be merged.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u43	Mr Secretary of State, for more than six months now, the whole of Europe has been faced with an increased influx of asylum seekers. That puts enormous pressure on our shelter network. It is therefore important to manage the number of places available in a good way, and to ensure that once people are rejected or recognised, they can quickly leave the centre or the local reception initiative to make way for other people. In principle, it will be possible to stay in the centre for another two months if it is recognised and has not immediately found accommodation. Housing is effectively a major problem. We see that all the municipal authorities are struggling with that problem. That is why additional initiatives are needed. You launched the proposal in October to encourage people to live with friends or family by means of meal cheques. We're almost three months away. How do you evaluate the use of those meal cheques to encourage people to leave the shelter more quickly? How many people use it? How many percent do they represent in the overall picture? Is that 5, 10 or 50 percent of the total number? How many people have been recognised but should still use the possibility of extending for two months in the shelter because there is a lack of accommodation? How many people are staying in the shelters that should have left them by now? What measures are you planning to take to promote outflow? I believe that there is a very important role to play in this respect for the Communities and the Regions, who are responsible for the search for accommodation at the time of recognition of refugees. It's important to start on time. In the meantime, have you consulted them to ensure a smooth flow and to avoid a bottleneck and to ensure that everyone stays in the shelters because there is a lack of accommodation? I think it is very important to work on this, because that is where integration begins effectively. Those people need to be able to live, so the problem of housing needs to be tackled effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u44	Mr Secretary of State, you have decided that people who are recognised and who immediately leave the reception initiative are entitled to 280 euro meal cheques per month. There's a logic to that. If they live somewhere, they still have to eat and the meal cheques are a compensation for the costs that the shelter should no longer do. They can find shelter with family or friends to perhaps find their own accommodation from there. You have said that you hope that a 300 people per month would make use of this opportunity because the number of places in the reception centres is under pressure. I am particularly pleased, moreover, that Mrs Lanjri recognises that housing will be one of the major challenges for the future. Mr Secretary of State, I have a number of questions. Can you tell me how many recognised refugees made use of this measure in November and December? What's their profile? Were they, for example, children or family members of families who were already here? Have 300 places, or perhaps even more, been effectively released? The fact that refugees are difficult to get out of the shelters is linked to the lack of rental homes. I have already interviewed you several times about consultation with the Regions and the Regions on housing in general, but also about social housing. Are initiatives being taken to increase capacity? Finally, are there any examples of people who have taken advantage of this possibility and received two months' meal cheques, but who have not found a sustainable solution to housing and who wanted to return to a reception initiative within two months? How will you deal with this if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u45	The instruction of 23 October 2015 concerning assistance for an early departure of residents with refugee status or subsidiary protection status concerns so far eight persons, which is not a success. It's all about single men. The measure concerned only a limited number of residents. As a reminder, it is a voluntary measure and he assumes that interested persons have a social network to find a temporary housing solution. Apparently, that remains difficult. Fedasil has also recently sent a message to the reception structures to clarify that meal cheques do not affect the financial assistance requested by the OMCW from those with whom they are going to live. There was a bit of uncertainty about that. Let me give you an example. If an Afghan who is recognized in a centre can go somewhere, for example, to an Afghan in the city of Antwerp, and wants to go there, then he may be afraid that his benefit will be reduced because they would live with two at one address. You yourself said last time that you should be careful with that. You said the same thing, Mrs Lanjri. I don't want to grieve you, but it's actually a problem. That is why the measure is not so successful. That's unfortunate, because the more places I can clear, the better. The measure is aimed primarily at persons who have in our country a network of family or friends to whom they can fall back for housing during the transition period. There is therefore no direct link to the availability of rentals. As Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, I am responsible for those people until they are recognised as refugees or received subsidiary protection status and in the transition period two months thereafter. As part of the current influx of asylum seekers, I have discussions with the Länder on many issues relating to asylum seekers and on a regular basis. Social housing is not my responsibility for the moment, but you can always have your colleagues ask questions to Minister Homans. The role of my administration and staff is limited to providing the necessary figures and analyses on which the Länder can base themselves in order to anticipate as best as possible the challenges they face. This point is always on the table. A debate is also being held on the latest state of the influx. It is true that we are trying to provide information properly so that the Länder know what is coming to them, who will be recognized, where they will be, who exactly is going to be, what age and how many schoolchildren they have and so on. That way they can prepare things well. We'll do it to the maximum. There is good consultation with Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. That goes well and I'm satisfied with it, but I can't decide instead of someone else. Every government has to do its thing. Today we see that the Flemish government wants to send the psychosocial teams to young refugees with psychosocial problems and to release 150 extra places for under 14 year olds. I think that is fantastic news and welcome it with open arms. Also along the French-speaking side there is a lot of willingness to improve cooperation and to provide places. That can only help, because the influx of really young children, less than 14 years old, has increased enormously. That is a very problematic group. It can be said that they lie about their age and I have a lot of reservations about that, but if one is younger than fourteen, one should not have a bone scan done. One is extremely vulnerable. These children simply need to be well cared for, and they really need to be entrusted to special care for young people, not to a centre of Fedasil. That's not ideal, I can say, but there's got to be room. I'm not gonna leave them on the street. If people say that there is no room and that we have to take care of it, then we will take them in, but it is not ideal. So good news about this. By the way, that was my New Year's wish when I visited the center with Geert Bourgeois in Poelkapelle. The instruction of 23 October clearly states that this is not possible, Mrs De Coninck. There is therefore no return to the reception structure. This has also been clearly explained to the recognised refugees in the reception structures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u46	Mr Secretary of State, at the end of October I asked you about this measure in plenary. I was very skeptical myself because I knew that there was a great deal of uncertainty about the living wage and/or benefit. It is not just about the living wage, it can also be an invalidity benefit that could be lost by taking someone in. In any case, it was also a preliminaries on the living wage that was still to be paid. There was also a lack of clarity about that. So I was somewhat sceptical, but I gave you the benefit of the doubt. If measures can be taken to promote outflow, then we must take them. It is also to your credit that you now admit that it is absolutely not a success. Only eight people have made use of this measure, which is absolutely not good. It's definitely not a success. The question remains whether you see any other possibilities to promote outflow. One of those things I have already mentioned in the past is very good consultation with the Länder. Do you think there are any other measures that could be taken to promote outflow? You did not reply, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u47	Mr Secretary of State, I also think that we can only try to use measures. You are dealing with this very pragmatically. There are not many people who have made use of it. People who are recognized will not be tempted to leave the shelter briefly for 300 euros and try their happiness. For me, this also indicates that, if they are recognised, those concerned are rightly recognised. The story of the profiteers and the happiness seekers is not actually confirmed, which in itself is positive, for the sake of clarity. I would like to say once again that I think that Minister Vandeurzen's decision, in Flanders, regarding the extra effort he wants to make for young children and their psychological guidance for the processing of trauma injuries, is wonderful. I note that CD&V in Flanders listens more to your wishes than your own party mates, Mr Secretary of State, because around housing you keep the boat friendly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u48	We deliver the Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u49	You're holding off the boat. You say that there is good cooperation in the Conciliation Committee. In reality, I find that Minister Vandeurzen is making very good and very reasonable decisions in all silence and in all modesty, because there is indeed a very big problem with trauma injuries in very young children. Yesterday I visited such an initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u50	The Flemish government is one and indivisible, Mrs De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u51	Now it is. I hope that Minister Homans will show as much initiative as Minister Vandeurzen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u52	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, we know that the influx of asylum seekers also leads to an influx of unaccompanied foreign minors (MENA) into our territory. I have already had the opportunity to question you on this issue since MENA requires a different approach and a different reception. The commune of Chaumont-Gistoux en Brabant Wallon has been nominated to host MENA. Given the difficulty of finding a place, the federal authority also made available the former gendarmerie free of charge in order to accommodate these young people. I would have liked to have your opinion on this initiative that you welcome, I suppose, very favourably. What means do you make available to the Chaumont-Gistoux CPAS to ensure this type of reception? It would appear that 1.5 full-time equivalents are provided for the permanent supervision of these eight young people. What is this? Is there any coordination between the guardians of these young people and the two guardians? Can you give me more details on what is provided for in your programme with regard to the reception of these MENA? Is a school enrolment project planned? Finally, will the Chaumont-Gistoux CPAS receive federal assistance to support these eight MENA?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u53	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, the accompanying standards provide for between 1.5 and 2.5 full-time equivalents for eight young people. They are persons with a diploma in the educational or ortho-pedagogical social sector and have experience in this sector. The main task of these social workers is to ensure that the MENA is supported individually with a view to its empowerment. It must accompany the MENA in the various steps, more specifically the practical and administrative steps towards its installation in private housing. An accompanying journey takes up the various steps to be carried out with the MENA during its accommodation in ILA. The journey involves three groups of skills to be acquired by young people for their autonomy: social and individual skills, practical and administrative skills and education. The reception is organised in such a way as to gradually offer more responsibility to MENA. The goal is to stimulate its ability to take care of itself in life and to ensure a transition to social assistance as soon as possible. These steps are carried out in close cooperation with the guardian. The responsibilities of the guardian are established by the Guardianship Service, which is within the competence of the FPS Justice, and specified in the general instructions to the guardian, allowing the division of duties between social workers and guardians. The accompanying journey provides for an individual interview during the first month between the social worker, the guardian and the MENA. Subsequently, the guardian is regularly invited to a social interview with his pupil. This interview focuses on the following elements: an overview of the various aspects of life and autonomy, a definition of the work priorities (procedures undertaken and to be undertaken). Since MENA is subject to compulsory education, the project includes the schooling of MENA hosted in ILA. Finally, financial assistance is provided in the form of an agreed amount. In addition, technical support is also provided for the organization of the accompaniment with MENA (helpdesk, visits, etc.).).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u54	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. I obviously welcome the proposal and the reception given by the commune of Chaumont-Gistoux in this regard. I think the reception in small structures of this kind, especially for MENA, unaccompanied young people, is important because it will allow for better listening, a better approach and better integration. I continue to support this type of approach and I hope that other municipalities will take the example of Chaumont-Gistoux so that they can also welcome MENA, as this problem remains important. There's more and more MENA. However, specialized centres are already overloaded. I therefore call for a responsibility in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u55	Mrs Lanjri, I give you the floor for your question. 8266 on unaccompanied minors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u56	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, last February we adopted a legislative proposal from me, together with the majority, which makes it possible for unaccompanied minors to make a double application, both for asylum and for the special protection status. It is, of course, up to the guardian to accompany the young person and to indicate whether it is appropriate to initiate both procedures. Most of the time, it's...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u57	Mrs Lanjri, I refer to Rule 122, b) of the Rules of Procedure. I cannot provide you with statistics in the context of an oral question. You're all asking for numbers. I do not have them with me, because in my view you should ask a written question about this. For the other questions, I do have some figures, but actually...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u58	My last question is not a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u59	The Rules of Procedure are fairly clear. If you are essentially asking for figures, it is a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u60	If I do not ask my question now, can you give me the written answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u61	I didn't even bring the answer. My answer is that I refer to the Rules of Procedure. I do the same for my fellow party members, for Mrs Renate Hufkens' questions. Mrs De Coninck, you also have two questions. Your question about the guardians is for the Minister of Justice. Your other question about the consular fee is for the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I'm just telling you, otherwise you'll be sitting here for nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u62	Could you please tell me what questions this is about?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u63	My questions Nos 8525 and 8526.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u64	I'm not qualified for the consular tax. It belongs to the domain of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u65	As for the guardians, if that system doesn't work properly, you have...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u66	I did indeed ask a question last week about the guardians to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u67	Minister None insists that questions about the guardians be asked to him. That makes sense too, and he does it very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u68	Questions Nos 8525 and 8526 by Mrs Monica De Coninck are therefore referred to other committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u69	Minister, we are faced with an enormous increase in influx. The figures should therefore show that the return is, of course, also increasing. After all, about 40% to 45% of refugees are still rejected. The figures should therefore show that the return is also being worked on. However, the figures show that voluntary return decreased between 2013 and 2014. In 2013, 4 705 cases were reported and only 3 646 cases were reported in 2014. For 2015, the figure was 3 044 cases until October. The figures for November and December 2015 are not yet included in my figures. What do you want to do about this problem? The voluntary return should be subject to additional efforts. After all, the coalition agreement agreed that, if possible, we should make maximum use of voluntary return. Of course, for those who do not respond to the request for voluntary return, a forced return is necessary. Sometimes it is not possible for a particular group to work only with voluntary return. In any case, we note that the figures on voluntary return have fallen. Can you give me the figures for voluntary return for the past year 2015? What is the reason for the falling figure of voluntary return? What measures will you take to ensure that more refugees register for voluntary return? To what extent are there opportunities for making voluntary return more tailor-made, e.g. organising specific future projects in the country of origin with the support of organisations or allowing those involved to use the capabilities they develop here? In the meantime, as agreed in the coalition agreement, is it possible to ensure that local reception initiatives also allow those concerned to return and to work on voluntary return? If that possibility is not yet available, when do you want to start? How will you do that? What is the state of the forced return? Do you notice an increase in this area? What is the result for 2015? Is there any difference in countries of origin in the case of voluntary and forced return?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u70	Ms Lanjri, 4 041 people returned voluntarily in 2015. So we have reached the limit of 4 000 people. It means an increase of 12.7 % compared to 2014. I cannot yet give figures on the forced return, because they are not yet complete. We have a meeting on Friday of the COTER working group on the coordination of return, where the figures will be presented by all the services. The puzzle is therefore not yet complete, because we do not yet have all the figures, including the return from prison during the last month and some other figures on forced return, such as Dublin takeovers and bilateral takeovers. So I can't give you the numbers yet. There are 4 041 people for voluntary return, of whom more than 1 000 are Iraqis. That's an absolute record. In 2014, 50 or 75 Iraqis opted for voluntary return, now 1 000. Of course, many more Iraqis have also entered our country, for the sake of clarity. These figures must always be placed side by side. Today the news in the Netherlands reports about the Iraqis who want to return to their country, but cannot leave because of the very bad relationship with the embassy that has to deliver the laissez-passers. We're doing a great job here. Cooperation with the Iraqi Embassy is good for voluntary return. We still have some work to do before the forced return, but we are working on it. Due to a decrease in the number of asylum applications in 2012-2013, fewer people returned in 2014. The decrease was still noticeable in the first months of 2015. Since June 2015, the number of people returning voluntarily has increased. The month of October 2015 was an absolute record month since the voluntary return was launched. In 2015, therefore, more than 4,000 people eventually returned. Many measures were taken in 2015 to promote voluntary return as far as possible. In July I proposed the so-called ten-point plan, because the figures in spring were very bad. We have had many meetings with Fedasil to raise the figures again, so a ten-point plan was drawn up, which I proposed at a press conference and in committee. The aim was to raise awareness among the target group, to make voluntary return even more accessible and to make the programme as relevant to the target group as possible. With the voluntary return, we should also focus more on illegal immigrants and not just on out-of-court asylum seekers who are still living in the centres. That's really important. We must also focus more on people without a right of residence who have been on Belgian territory for much longer. The results include the setting up of an additional return point in Antwerp, I was able to open this together with the OCMW chairman there, and in Liège, where 129 and 84 persons were offered respectively during the past trimester. Collaboration with local authorities in Ghent, Aalst, Antwerp and Charleroi, among others, has been deployed, with federal funding integrating voluntary return into local foreign policy. Numerous information sessions were organised for care workers, social assistants and local authorities. During the last trimester of 2015, over 82 information sessions, 1 089 people were reached. Those are very intense information sessions. Finally, there is a strong commitment to direct communication with the target group. We also meet with the ambassadors. DVZ facilitates this, because Fedasil often does not have the same access as DVZ. For example, we are also trying to discuss voluntary return with the ambassadors of important countries, from the Balkans, for example, as well as large migratory countries. Voluntary return is always tailor-made. Re-integration budgets are granted not only on the basis of nationality and administrative status, but also on the basis of one's individual situation. This is done in dialogue between a return guide in Belgium and a local reintegration partner in the country of origin. Not only the amount awarded can vary, but also the degree of guidance. This is important, for example, in the case of vulnerable persons or in the case of medical problems. Since the new accommodation model, the target group has changed in the LOIS. Normally, only persons with a very high degree of recognition, such as Syrians, can be caught in the new LOI-model. For example, less efforts are needed for safe return. However, with the current reception crisis, this is not possible: every place is filled in. That's very bad. Mr De Vriendt says that the new childcare model is bankrupt, but that is not true: it has been abandoned. That is true and I have admitted it, I am not too proud of it. I just can't. If five places are released in a LOI right now, we'll just fill them up with anyone. When they arrive and they are people from the Balkans with a lower degree of recognition, they still go to the LOI. We try not to, but if there's no other way, if there's only those beds, we don't put people on the street and use those beds. There are indeed differences between nationalities in terms of voluntary and forced return. That has to do with several factors. For certain countries it is difficult to obtain travel documents for forced return. This is the case, for example, for Afghanistan, Iran, Iraq and the Maghreb countries, which has a major impact. In addition, certain nationalities prefer to return independently or from their community rather than to call on the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u71	(...) You remember the discussions, because you negotiated with them. The government agreement included that voluntary return would also be set up from the LOIS itself. You haven't started that yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u72	We are certainly going to do that, but in view of the influx, I have to ask a few questions about this. I'm not gonna leave it, but I'm gonna do it when Fedasil says it's possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u73	I am convinced that we need to focus more on voluntary return and that we need to take every possible path. One of these runs was indeed the suggestion we made during the negotiations, that we should also work from the LOIS on voluntary return. That was agreed and incorporated into the coalition agreement. We absolutely must make a commitment to this, but I would like to give you some time to work that out. I note, however, that in the last year, 4 041 people have returned voluntarily, which is an increase of 12.17 %. That is actually a very small increase compared to the number of people who entered the country. Two years ago there were 17 000 asylum applications and last year almost 36 000, i.e. a doubling. In fact, that voluntary return should have increased by 100 %, so it should also have doubled. I understand that there are a number of months in between and that it is likely that the voluntary return will increase much faster now. I know there's a time limit of a few months. Return figures must increase, both from voluntary and forced return. I know that there are a number of months in between, but for some cases it is decided much faster. There are files where there is a decision after a few months and there are files where it actually takes up to a year. We will see, for this year, whether the returns figures are rising further, whether there is a doubling as a result of last year's increased inflow. In recent years, about 10 000 people left the country, about half forced and half voluntary. Also this year and next year work will have to be done on the return, preferably a voluntary return but if it has to be a forced return.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u74	Mrs Lanjri, you cannot compare apples with pears, of course. You're making an amalgam, and that's not entirely correct. Firstly, you are talking about the asylum crisis. The voluntary return exploded from August. The first six months were disastrous. Since then, there has been almost a doubling compared to the last six months of 2014. So you have to compare the periods correctly. Secondly, the files are still under discussion. You say that some cases are decided more quickly. That's right. Syrians, for example, get quick recognition, but they are recognised as refugees, they should not return. Next week, I will be returning to the government with a very interesting package. Now that I have heard your statements, I naturally expect your party's full support. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u75	Mr Secretary of State, you know that we will approve your proposals if they fit in with the government agreement. It is clear that more asylum seekers need to be identified when more asylum seekers arrive. As far as we are concerned, the return must be voluntary as far as possible, because we know that this return is sustainable. Then the people will stay, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u76	And cheaper!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u77	And cheaper, you say it yourself. That is why I was also concerned that the figures on voluntary return had fallen in 2014. We must therefore commit ourselves to voluntary return and, if necessary for a certain group of refugees in the past, it was no different from forced return. Not everyone participates in a voluntary journey. If your proposals fit in with what we have agreed, you will of course have our support for them, or else we will discuss them further and adapt them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u78	Mr Secretary of State, since we have been confronted with an increased influx, pre-care facilities have been provided for asylum seekers who could not be registered by the DVZ on the same day. As agreed, that pre-care was always mentioned on the notice of convocation. If one presented oneself and could not get directly to the DVZ at that time, then one received a notice of notice to come back on a certain date after a week or a little bit longer. The application could then be registered. On that convocation, for months, it was also intended to be noted that people who had not had shelter could go to the pre-reception of the Red Cross. However, I visited the DVZ at the end of December. I saw those letters then, and to my surprise I found that there was no longer any place where people could go if they had no roof over their head. I thought that was very odd. In the meantime, I've established that this is still the case. Those letters still don't say where people can go. Mr Secretary of State, why is that no longer on the DVZ's letters? Who made that decision? This was mentioned for a long time and suddenly that measure was apparently withdrawn. Does that happen in other ways now? What is the current capacity utilisation rate of pre-care? Of course, it is not the intention that this should not be mentioned to ensure that pre-care is not fully occupied. I hope this isn't the end of it. If one has a fully occupied pre-care facility, I would still understand why one would mention that one can, in principle, go there but that it is currently full. Now they don't put anything on it and people actually have to work out their plan. Sometimes there are volunteers from refugee work and other organisations who refer people or indicate where they can go, but they are not always there. We shouldn't expect volunteers to do that, should we? The message must be written with a simple notification on the notice. The government has done so for some time. Now she doesn't. Why doesn't she do that anymore? Very recently, I found that it is not happening.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u79	Mrs Lanjri, the address of the pre-care facility was removed at the request of the reception partner of the convocation. Because pre-care was at a certain point in time, the host partner was often held wrongly responsible for the shortage of places by the applicant asylum seekers. Since the situation for the receiving partner was unsustainable at the time, the request was accepted for temporary adjustment of the notice. Today there are again many empty places in the pre-reception and the convocation has been readjusted. The address will therefore be re-listed. Candidate asylum seekers receive oral information from the staff of the Department of Foreign Affairs with the help of interpreters. Caritas employees also provide information at the front of the building. The preconception is barely 150 meters away from the place where the convocations are written. On 17 January 2016, 435 persons stayed in pre-care. Over 700 beds are empty.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u80	Minister, if the matter has been resolved in the meantime, I should like to leave it at that. In that case, there seems to have been a mistake. I hope, however, that the convocation will continue to be adapted in this way. If in the future, for one reason or another, pre-care is again full, I understand the concern of the Red Cross, then it is better to mention on the letter that there is normally pre-care, but that pre-care is at that time full. It may also be mentioned that the person concerned must present himself at the pre-care facility. However, the address cannot simply be omitted. I submitted my question on 5 January 2016. At that date, the address was still not on the notice. Mr Secretary of State, since when has the error been corrected?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u81	It's been modified since I got the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u82	We'll make sure it's true. The mistake must have been corrected by now. If there are any complaints, I'm referring to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u83	You can always check. That's your job.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u84	It is indeed my job to control the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u85	Mr De Vriendt looks across the border, with his question about the refugee camp in Dunkirk, although I believe it will not only be about Dunkirk, because there are refugee camps nearby.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u86	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, last Sunday I did indeed visit the refugee camp in Dunkirk. There are few volunteers there, because currently there are no large NGOs active. Rather, they are citizens' initiatives and they are crying out for help. Fortunately, there is a refugee camp of Doctors Without Borders in the future. It was supposed to be built within four weeks. In the meantime, the humanitarian situation there is particularly poignant. About three thousand people are affected, including 300 children and seven pregnant women. It's a big mud pool, a mess, a dung pile on which three thousand people live, fenced. The government is not there in any fields or roads, except on the barrier, where the French gendarmerie stands, who decides which relief goods may or may not enter. There is a particular need for wooden palettes to protect the tents from mud, but just those wooden palettes cannot enter the camp. Fortunately, clothing and nutrition are allowed there. By the way, many Flemings sacrifice their free time one day a week to help. There are few French, but so many Flemings and also British and Dutch. Mr Secretary of State, since the problem of refugees is primarily European, and therefore also Belgian, I would like to ask you what role Belgium can play in this. Are you aware of that situation? Are you prepared to put pressure on Europe and France in such a way that the humanitarian situation there is rapidly improving? Did you address your French colleague to the situation in that camp? What's the effect of that refugee camp on our country? Is there an outflow towards our country or an influx from our country to Dunkirk? Is it true that there is an information problem with regard to the refugees there? The key question is why these people do not apply for asylum in France. To that end, I think there is a mix of reasons. I'd like to know your opinion on the matter. Maybe you've gotten some information by now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u87	Mr President, the people in the Calais and Dunkirk tent camps are illegal residents of France who, despite repeated requests from the French authorities, refuse to apply for asylum there and to transfer to the French reception structures. These people can apply for asylum there. They can also apply for asylum from us, I will not forbid them. Besides, if I wanted to, I wouldn't even be able to. They can apply for asylum in France, but they do not want it. If they apply for asylum in either France or Belgium, they will receive reception rights, bed, bath and bread, like all asylum seekers, but, again, they will refuse to do so. Some of them are persons who have already applied for asylum but have been rejected in France or in another EU country. Most of it is just people who want to go to the United Kingdom. Their objective is therefore the United Kingdom, outside Schengen. The people come from outside Schengen and enter Schengen to leave it, to the United Kingdom. These people do not want to stay in Schengen. In itself, that is special, because when one gives an order to leave the territory they say thank you in the first instance because this is what they were already planning. That's kind of weird for a cop. As you know, neither European legislation nor international refugee law provides for the freedom of choice of the country of asylum. What I'm saying here is pretty obvious. The French Government rightly considers these people to be illegal migrants and not refugees, as you and the media have misunderstood. If they are refugees, they can apply for asylum in France or Belgium. I believe that we are still providing decent care and respect for human rights in our country. I think France is doing the same. However, they are not interested in this. With regard to France's duty to provide reception for these illegal migrants, I can be brief. No European law or international law obliges them to do so. That is why Europe does not intervene in this matter, however painful. I agree with you that the situation is poignant. When these people apply for asylum, they get bed, bath and bread, but they don't want it. What is stopping them from travelling to Brussels and applying for asylum? They can even apply for asylum at the border, they should not even travel to Brussels. In the meantime, the French state's policy of tolerance towards illegal tent camps in northern France also affects our country. Around the port of Zeebrugge there have already been 400 interceptions of persons in illegal residence, at three weeks' time. A further 350 intercepts were added on the West Coast. This evolution is a cause for serious concern for our coastal mayors. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to make one point clear: our country will not tolerate tent camps of illegal migrants on its territory. Persons in illegal residence who refuse to apply for asylum will not be helped or tolerated by the Belgian authorities, but will be arrested and, where possible, transferred to a closed institution for return. I will say 'where possible', because it is not clear for Syrians, for example. There's a lot of Iranians in there, too. It is not obvious to them either. We are working very hard on it, with the police and with Minister Jambon. We try to play the ball very briefly. If people spend the night in tents and take them away immediately in the morning, and so make sure that no tent camp can arise, then... The harder it becomes to make the crossing in Calais, the more one goes to look for other possibilities. You understand. We have been in agreement on this for months, both with the British and with the French Members of Parliament. As you know, illegal residence in our country is still a criminal offence, according to Article 75 of the Aliens Act. The Aliens Act obliges the government to remove such persons from the territory, either voluntarily or forced. That's the law. As Secretary of State, I am obliged to apply the law. This means that we must increase our capacity for the detention and repatriation of persons in illegal residence in a sensitive manner. Already, the capacity of the closed centres has been increased by one third. I also support the request of the Director-General of the Foreign Office, Mr Roosemont, to double capacity. The law provides for the expulsion of persons who wish to enter our country without a valid visa. Together with Minister Jambon, I will therefore keep a close eye on the situation at the French-Belgian border, which is happening now, and if it appears that there is an influx of people in illegal residence from the French coastal communities to our coastal communities, then more intensive border controls and systematic drifting back will become inevitable. So we're working on it. We have received the letter from the coastal mayors and this week we will be formulating an answer. There are several options possible. It is certainly the intention to play very briefly on the ball. A tent camp like that of Calais on our territory, that's impossible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u88	Mr Secretary of State, I think you are suggesting the situation a little too simple. It is not the case that the people sitting there do not want to apply for asylum. The situation is more complex than that. For a number of people it will be because some have family in England and want to go there. However, the situation is much more complex, because there are a number of other factors involved. Firstly, there is a lack of information. These are people who have arrived there via smugglers and who are often completely unaware of the right to asylum. They are also not offered by the French authorities and are not given any explanation. They are not told that they can apply for asylum in France. The government is absent from that camp. The gendarmerie steps fifty meters to the camp and then returns to the barriers. There are no aid and no legal aid. Besides, the human smugglers are in the camp itself. They dominate that camp for a piece and decide what happens there. They also withhold information and push people towards Britain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u89	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u90	You say that these people do not want to apply for asylum, but it is more complex than that. What you're saying isn't true or it's true in part. Not only is the situation distressing, it is also poignant how France treats these people. Even though they are illegal, even if what you say is true, that they all want to go to England, it is much more complex than that. This is not the way to treat homeless people, it is not even the way to treat animals. I think it might be useful to ask the French authorities via a European approach. It has to do with Asylum and Migration. I will also put the question to Didier Reynders and your colleague from the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u91	Debates of the European Parliament 8281 by Mrs Renate Hufkens has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u92	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, throughout 2015, illegals have been repatriated according to the most classic route, i.e. via a line theft. Unfortunately, this is not possible for everyone since there are "heavy cases", as you call them. The latter, 150 for the year 2015, receive special treatment as they are repatriated via a special flight. These 150 people were returned in part on Frontex flights, 80% paid by the European Union. The others took a flight chartered by the Defense. So the cost is lower for society, but I still don't know the exact figure. This organisation has been implemented thanks to your cooperation with the Minister of Defence, Mr Vandeput, which I congratulate you, Secretary of State. The cooperation and measures you have taken are obviously in the right direction. However, Secretary of State, I have a few questions to ask you about these facts. What do you mean by "heavy cases"? This is a difficult matter and I would like you to explain yourself with respect to this term. Can you tell me what a special flight costs? Since cooperation with Defence has been good, can you tell me if further cooperation is planned? With which countries of the European Union do we cooperate most on special flights? Are there plans for enhanced collaboration with some countries? If so, which ones? Can you tell me if the Frontex budget will be strengthened? What is planned for 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u93	Mr Secretary of State, it appears that last year you had recourse to the army for some 150 forced returns. While such missions are not new, their number is increasing significantly, while it would appear that the cost of such evictions to the public authorities is higher than returns to regular lines. This situation calls for several questions. Under what procedure is it decided to use military flights rather than civilian flights for such evictions? What is the amount per person of these procedures? In comparison, what is the cost of expulsion on conventional routes? The press also reports that it is the military themselves who supervise the persons evicted during these flights. Is that so? If so, under what regulations or agreement between your department and National Defence? Finally, these flights are reserved according to you for difficult cases. Can you define them and list the reasons for the 150 returns made through them in 2015? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u94	Ms. Cassart-Milleux and Mr. Crusnière, the category of heavy cases includes persons serving a sentence of at least 36 months. Of the 154 individuals who had been separated by special theft, nine had been convicted. The penalties are as follows: - drug and break-in, 36 months; - break-in flight, 39 months; - driving intoxicated, 65 months; - theft with break-in and sale of arms, 51 months; - burglary and concealment, 60 months; - assault, drug, robbery, 59 months; - assaults and injuries resulting in death without intent, 39 months; - homicide, 15 years old. A total of 74 persons were involved in an administrative report of the police for public order. Among these, there were 42 persons with an effective conviction. A large proportion of these people are known to the police. There are different types of flights with specific costs associated with the flight. There is a special flight to the Balkans in Embraer, for a maximum of 10 re-routes, organised by Belgium for a cost of around 12 000 euros. There is a special Embraer flight to the airport of departure for a joint return operation of Frontex which costs from 8 000 to 13,000 euros, for which we receive a 60% refund from Frontex, for example Albania via Lille. There is a special flight to the Congo organized by Belgium and coordinated by Frontex for a cost of about 120,000 euros. In the event that the Foreign Office offers participation to other European countries, we can receive a 100% refund from Frontex. There's a special flight to the Congo coordinated by Defence. If the Foreign Office can participate in a Defence-organized flight with a few people, it's free. If one additional trip is required for the participation of the Office of Foreigners, the Office of Foreigners shall pay for that additional trip. Other collaborations with Defence are possible. For example, Defence sites are available for reception. These sites are not under the supervision of the military but rather of the police. There is no change at this level, although collaboration would be more effective. The Foreign Office has a very good collaboration with our neighbouring countries under the coordination of Frontex. The Agency participated in 4 flights via France, 2 via the Netherlands and 2 via Germany. This represents an economically advantageous participation because the flight is free and the Foreign Office only pays for the transfer to the airport by land and the salaries of the police officers. An analysis of each Frontex offer is made in parallel with the needs of the Office. The latter is in favour of collaboration with the Member States. Switzerland also participated in the Agency's two flights to the Congo. Frontex's budgets have been significantly strengthened. Thus, in 2015, the Return Support Unit's budget amounted to EUR 13 million. In 2016, it represents EUR 60 million. Frontex's overall budget in 2015 was 143 million. In 2016, it amounted to 254 million euros. It is therefore clear that return policy is a priority for Europe, which is a good thing. An ongoing analysis is planned to determine the Agency's needs. Depending on the latter, the Agency will decide whether to organize a special flight or to participate in a flight organized by another State. Finally, I would like to point out that I do not understand why yesterday there was a question of the repatriation of criminals. We are always accused of stigmatization, racism or discrimination, which I do not understand. Indeed, it is not a new policy. The latter is simply intensified, which is necessary, given the current climate linked to the migration crisis in Europe. I would also like to draw attention here to the fact that measures in this direction, even if sometimes harder, are taken in all European countries, whether their government is on the left or on the right. A balance must be sought. Otherwise the situation is untenable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u95	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your very precise answers. I take note of the fact that Frontex's budget has been strengthened, which is good news. Cooperation with Defence, the Foreign Office and the Member States is also strengthened, which is also good news. As you said, the repatriation of criminals is a matter of the current policy of all Member States. We are facing a crisis linked to the influx of refugees, which is difficult to manage. Under no circumstances should we stigmatize, but take the necessary measures by setting targets. Deciding is also our role. This is what the government is doing today. I therefore fully understand the measures you have taken. I absolutely do not understand the position of some parties that want to stigmatize this government. I think we need to continue in this position. In the current climate, we have a role to play in giving some stability and confidence. Thank you for the positions you have defended.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u96	I thank the Secretary of State for his precise answers. As far as stigma is concerned, I do not want to get into the debate. That is not the case and my question was not at all related to that. It is indeed something that was done before. The remark about stigma was more related to the "pot-pourri 2" law, you know, and we will have the opportunity to come back to it very soon in plenary. We have had answers regarding the costs, the cooperation with Frontex which is going well and which must continue to be carried out. I say again, it is not something new, it was already done before. What is important is that repatriations of this type should remain the exception and should not fall within the norm. I hear the reasons. Of course, the most important thing is safety and security on conventional lines as well. But I wonder when you're talking about drunk driving that results in a conviction. The question may be raised whether this type of crime entails a risk in the event of a traditional theft. The question may be asked, but, I tell you, it is not at all a question of the measure. I would remind you that this must remain the exception.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u97	I have heard my colleague, but when we have to take on a mission in relation to the reception of these refugees, we fully assume it. But, for their part, there is also a mission to be undertaken: the path of integration, respect for the laws of the Belgian people and many other things.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u98	Mr Secretary of State, as a result of the incidents in Cologne, you have indicated that you want to have courses for asylum seekers to clarify our standards and values, our rights and freedoms, as well as equality between men and women. Fortunately, they already existed in many asylum centres, including in Kapellen but also elsewhere. However, we have to note that they did not exist for the emergency shelters and the recently added shelters. You now want to ensure that the provision of such courses is generalised to all reception initiatives, which is certainly a good thing. How do you intend to do that? Is this a completely non-binding initiative or an obligation for each asylum seeker to take such courses? At the end of last year, a basic agreement was reached within the government that, if they apply for asylum, people should sign a declaration of commitment in which they commit to respect European standards and values. It therefore seems appropriate to link this with each other and to ensure that people do not sign the declaration of commitment, but that they also know what our values and standards are, what our freedoms are, and that the courses that are already being given in some reception centres are given everywhere. It is now about equality between men and women, but this also applies to other matters. Fortunately, many centres with asylum seekers are already working on courses on practical issues such as the traffic regulations here, and how they cycle here on the public road. Such matters are obvious to us, but for some newcomers they are not. For example, it is not obvious that a cyclist is subject to the same traffic rules as a motorist. Thus, the courses mentioned must be wider than the equality between men and women. They should be about social integration. In principle, this information, once it has been recognized and allowed to remain in the country, is provided through the integration course, but I think it is a good thing to start earlier, at the stage where asylum seekers are still seeking asylum. Only then should these courses be extended to everyone and given to everyone. How do you see that in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u99	Mr Secretary of State, you have announced that you want to give all asylum seekers a course on sexuality and the relationship with women. In some countries, such as Norway, where there are certainly good examples, there is already a long way to go in this area. We are in favour of such courses on sexuality and association with women, but we do believe that it should go further and that the courses should be extended to social orientation courses. This can only benefit integration. Such courses already exist in some asylum centres and they are certainly already being given at Flemish level to strengthen the integration of recognised refugees. We propose that this be extended to as many asylum centres as possible in an initial phase, and that the course should not be limited to dealing with women and sexuality. In this context, you have given a powerpoint presentation, perhaps from Fedasil, but we are therefore in favour of broadening to include social integration courses. Knowing our legislation is one thing, but some things have more to do with our standards and values, and dealing with women is one thing, but it can also be about slipping and noise pollution. All things that are more fluid and not so much contained in tight legislation, but which can be communicated to newcomers in a course of social integration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u100	Mr Secretary of State, I have the following questions. Which asylum centres already offer sexuality courses to asylum seekers in procedure? Which asylum centres offer social orientation courses to asylum seekers in procedure? What elements are in the initiative you announced? Are these courses just about men and are they just about sexuality and dealing with women? What exactly is your intention? When do these courses start? What budget is foreseen for this? What is the contribution of the other levels of government?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u101	Mr Secretary of State, much has already been said. A few weeks ago, after the terrible events in Cologne, you announced that the male asylum seekers would receive courses on how to deal with women. These courses have already been given in certain reception centres, but this is now being extended to all reception centres. The Norwegian model would be copied. This is the course that is now taking place in certain reception centres. The Norwegian model will therefore be taken over in all our reception centres in the coming weeks and months. Mr Secretary of State, can you explain more about the Norwegian model? Is that wider than just what we see here: dealing with women, but also sexual education, contraception, sexually transmitted diseases? Actually that is also a part of prevention, we read in the bundle of Fedasil. Will this be wider in the future and include other Western values and standards? We understand that there is a budget on the other hand, so the question is to what extent it can be dealt with at the asylum application stage, i.e. not in the post-recognition phase. That seems desirable to me. Will all male asylum seekers, Mrs Lanjri, be obliged to take that course? What if they don't? This is linked to the newcomers' declaration. Do you have any idea of the reactions of asylum seekers who have already taken the course?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u102	In Norway, a project was foreseen in the framework of their strategy on prevention of violence. By the way, I'm visiting Norway in February. The project consisted of several components, including training for staff from the reception structures to lead interview groups with male residents, as well as supervision of interview groups and exchange of experience. The aim of the support groups was to prevent violence inside and outside the reception structures. The interview groups with male residents were organised several times, regardless of their status or procedural status, usually in cooperation with an interpreter. The participation of residents in the support groups was not compulsory. The project was evaluated positively, but ended in the meantime. Norway has since restarted a number of projects in this area. Moreover, there are significant similarities with the support groups organised in the Belgian reception network. My aim is to harmonise the existing comprehensive range of information sessions and training in the reception network and to ensure that all asylum seekers have effective and timely access to a full and quality of information and training on the values and standards of our society. I'm sure that's more extensive than that. You say it's usually more extensive and that's true. Due to current events, the training course with women was rather focused, but often there are also talk about waste, litter and a number of other important issues for our society. This will facilitate the integration of asylum seekers into our society and better prepare those who will receive a positive decision for the integration process. The specific modalities of the harmonised offer will be further developed in the coming weeks. The sessions at the Kapellen reception centre, as well as the information sessions, discussion groups and training on the subject for residents in other reception structures, are welcomed by the residents. I admit I was slightly annoyed on the subject broadcast. It strikes me that we are sometimes hypersensitive to business, while the newcomers are okay with us doing them. I remember the debate on compulsory integration, which Green started with Mieke Vogels. This led to a very long discussion in Flanders and eventually there was a broad parliamentary consensus to introduce it. In the following years I have followed that as a policymaker behind the scenes. Every year we conducted a survey in which we asked what people thought of that course. We asked them, among other things, what they thought they were obliged to take that course. Ninety percent thought it was very good that they were required and they thought it was a very good course. Sometimes we are hypersensitivity, so that we should not step on the toes. I am responding, among other things, to criticism of an opposition party. It's not perceived at all. There really is an interplanetary difference with the opinion of the newcomers themselves. It is asked whether I can require such courses and what the penalties will be. I can't force the courses. It is not because the course is not followed that I cannot grant asylum, or rather that Mr Van den Bulck cannot grant asylum. That's not in my hands. Everyone is taking the course, however, no one has ever refused.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u103	In fact, Green has been the leader of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u104	In that respect, yes. I don't have a problem with that either.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u105	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u106	Green doesn't, but there are others. I'm not talking about you, Mrs. De Coninck. I am already pleased that you have not put a question on this. I admit that I was slightly irritated, because I had to defend myself all the time for something which I think is quite obvious and is not a problem at all. That's why I brought the course. Just judge for yourself. A Member State minister says that the course is close to racism. Read the course, he is now in Dutch, because he is given in Kapellen. The course was prepared together with Sensoa. Just read the course and judge for yourself. Is he racist now? He's just needed. The course is indeed clear, perhaps sometimes a little too clear for one or the other. Then it's time to talk about it. There is also a whole package on how the course is taught and taught. It will be explained and the debate in the group will continue. There's talk groups. What's the problem? ? We've been doing that for years. Maybe it's me. All reception structures in the Fedasil network offer adapted guidance and access to training and information sessions for the asylum seekers staying there. In the guidance the resident is approached as an individual in the care structure and as an individual in society. Values and standards of our society are addressed in different ways and times. The themes vary from traffic rules to sexual relations. The rules that make it possible to live together in the centre are clarified and the values and standards of our society and matters that our society attaches great importance to are transferred. It concerns such issues as health, including sexual health, integration, compulsory education, parental role, equality between men and women. The aim is to make the inhabitants, both men and women and young people, more responsive. The guidance is individualised, but not non-binding and is part of the journey of each asylum seeker through the reception network. So this is standard practice in every reception initiative, even though a lot of asylum seekers are coming in and it is not evident at the moment to include all of them, but it is still possible for the time being. The methodology used by the reception structures differs somewhat. Some reception structures are working on a comprehensive intake for newcomers, addressing different aspects of society and values and standards. Other reception structures provide specific information sessions in group, such as Chapels and Sint-Truiden. There are quite a few, such as a basic education in social orientation and a training moment on sexual health and relationships or a basic course in social orientation. Sensoa's information package on sexual health, which also includes a section on relationships between men and women, homosexuality and intercourse, is used in some shelters, including in Kapellen. GAMS provides training sessions for women who are victims or are at risk of genital mutilation. These are mainly women from Africa. Apart from residents' meetings, where similar aspects can be addressed, and thematic group discussions are specific for women and sometimes also for men, chat groups and empowerment initiatives. Finally, the explanatory memorandum of the Rules of Procedure also provides an opportunity to discuss gender violence and our Belgian values and standards and, where appropriate, to impose a penalty on a resident who violates the domestic rules. The internal rules contain provisions on the prohibition of any form of sexual and gender-related violence and on any form of violence tout court. The internal rules also contain provisions on the prohibition of racism and discrimination and equality between men and women. Residents are invited to commit to this and to respect our values in daily life. Failure to comply with the internal rules of procedure can, of course, lead to a penalty. The training is not limited only to residents. There are also regular trainings and info sessions for the employees and supervisors. My intention is to centralise and standardise everything and to work more and more with it. A first meeting of an IKW was held last week about the newcomer statement. We will soon take that statement to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u107	Mr Secretary of State, I have also visited a few shelters myself, such as the Kapellen shelter. Indeed, I note that what is happening in that shelter can be an example for many other centres. I mentioned the example of cycling earlier. I did that because it has to be part of a wider course, no matter what happens there. It is not just about the interaction between men and women, but also about social orientation. The centre explains to the residents their rights and obligations, for example in relation to education, that children are obliged to take lessons and that swimming lessons are included in those lessons. Effectively they are also explained very practical things, such as why we select waste or why it is not appropriate to speak loudly on the tram. That cycling seems to be a very obvious thing, but some countries have no or hardly any bicycle paths. It must therefore be explained to them that, when there are bike paths with us, they have to cycle on the bike path and not in the middle of the street, which used to go wrong in the beginning. The refugees are in an asylum centre and have some bicycles available to travel. When they come from a country without bike paths, they cycle in the middle of the street. If such small things are pointed out from the beginning, then it will benefit everyone. Finally, of course, it is good that these courses are generalised. I would also like to thank you for the information you provided from Fedasil.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u108	That information is also on Fedasil's website.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u109	I believe that we in Parliament should not interfere with the content of these courses. I read, for example, about whistling at women, that some women like that and others don't. Well, Mr Secretary of State, I don't think most women like that. Above all, however, I believe that refugees should not receive ambiguous messages. I think that's how we confuse people. They can, because some women like it according to the course, get the idea to try it anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u110	We're not going to discuss the content of that course here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u111	No, that's what I just said. I do not want to go into the substance, but I do want to remove the ambiguity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u112	(...) We cannot speak for all women either.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u113	Mr Secretary of State, if the information is ambiguous, you should leave it out, because ambiguity confuses people. Those men may mean well or think they'll succeed if they whistle at a woman, but I don't think they should be encouraged to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u114	I think this will be explained with the necessary laughter. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u115	Yes, but it says in the course, for example, that women are not being whistled at the shelter. Apparently, the women from the shelter don't like that very much. Is that possible on the street or on the bus? I'm telling it somewhat anecdotal right now, but I hope that the right tone will be found in those courses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u116	Mr Secretary of State, I have just heard a different opinion here besides me, so perhaps we can start a separate discussion on the content of the course.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u117	You're not gonna take advantage of the situation, are you? [[Hilarity]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u118	I think we need that course in Parliament too!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u119	Yeah, we can go a long way in that. Mr Secretary of State, I understand that the course will be broader, so it will be social orientation courses and that you want to generalise them. I assume that these courses will therefore be accessible to women and young people, so they are not just aimed at men and not just about relationships and sexual health. In that case, I think it is a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u120	Mr Secretary of State, we can laugh at the interpretation of certain practices, but, as you rightly say, we do not need to impose them. Actually, they're an automatism. It is our duty to teach people who settle here a month, a year, or the rest of their lives, what our western values are and to guide them there. One can discuss whether or not to listen to the music. Let us assume that it is not allowed. But it's gotta be bigger. It must, of course, be not just about sexual orientation, but about our Western values in general. We all have that responsibility, not only in a reception centre, but also in school, for the underage asylum seekers are happy to be in school. That's how these kids learn our values from the start. There could be a budget on that. After all, we owe it to ourselves and our society so that we can continue to live together. Mr Secretary of State, last week you sent me the picture of a poster hanging from a playground. One may wonder whether it is necessary to have symbols on it: do not hit, do not kick, do not swear. It was about a kindergarten.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u121	That is what we have to do in all schools.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u122	It's not about sexual health there. It's about the other relationships. In fact, it must be done in all schools. Then it's probably not just about newcomers, it's about our kids. This is a generality, anyone can learn from it. So I would like to make a general appeal. This should not be a directive of one minister or another. In fact, it is self-evident that we give and enforce such courses. Those people are grateful to learn our rules of conduct. After all, they have many questions about how to behave here. Those courses are only right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u123	The Secretary of State told him he had to leave at 12:00. It's been 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u124	I have another question. 8407.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u125	I call in Article 122 of the Rules of Procedure. All you ask for is numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u126	The second part really isn't.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u127	Mrs Lanjri, I suggest that next time you separate the questions in a written and oral part.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u128	Do I get an answer? I've already had questions I can't get an answer to.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u129	If you do not have an answer within 30 days, submit them orally. That's the Rules of Procedure. I admit, with the crisis I am lagging behind on the written questions. It is your right, as I have used it a great deal, to submit them orally after 30 days. Then you can ask as many numbers as you want.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u130	Is there a chance to ask questions next week?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u131	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u132	In order to put oral questions, the Rules of Procedure allow only those who ask the questions to receive an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u133	If you want to keep them, you can, but I told you I had to leave at 12:00. It's 12:15.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u134	You have just spoken about questions for which another minister is competent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u135	That's the answer I want to give.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u136	On the other hand, you also say that the government is one and indivisible. It is typical of everything related to asylum and migration, as well as to poverty policy, that it concerns different areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u137	There is always one main responsibility to whom the question is addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u138	Many questions are answered here, for example about Dunkirk. You could also say that this is about overseas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic312x.u139	The sitting is closed.
