ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 March 2016, I propose that on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session, the motion for a resolution (Mrs Marcel Cheron, Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, Mr David Geerts and Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mrs Isabelle Poncelet) requesting the Court of Auditors to investigate the causes of the failure of the GEN Fund and the significant delay in the GEN work, should be submitted to the Court of Auditors. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 March 2016, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the motion for a resolution (MM. Marcel Cheron, Stefaan Van Hecke and David Geerts and Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mrs Isabelle Poncelet) to instruct the Court of Auditors to investigate the establishment of the causes which led to the bankruptcy of the RER Fund and the considerable delay in the construction of the RER, Nos 1693/1 to 4. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I also propose that the agenda start with item 4. I also propose that you start the agenda with item 4. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u3	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to welcome the courage and efficiency of our police services, which have had to face an unexpected situation this Tuesday. They intervened with a great deal of composure and rigour. I should also like to welcome the improvement in the communication of the authorities. We remember that last December, during the searches in Molenbeek in connection with the search for Abdeslam, which I recall is still running. Finally, I welcome the reaction of the commune of Forest. Local authorities have also been particularly effective in protecting and supporting the population during operations. However, if a terrorist was shot down last Tuesday, two more are still in nature. Therefore, we cannot really talk about total success. Today the question arises of the effectiveness of the measures taken by the Government in the fight against terrorism. Several legal provisions have been adopted. Many more remain to be taken. However, it should be noted that they did not allow the MACO to significantly reduce the threat assessment. Budgetary resources have also been made available. Minister, where are your 400 million? How do they translate operationally? Where are they assigned in terms of staff? How are they used in counter-terrorism investigations? We also know that the environments of great banditry and terrorism are closely intertwined. Have any specific means been implemented in this area? Finally, how is collaboration on the ground going with French services?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u4	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to pay tribute to the courage, reactivity and composure of our police forces during the searches in Forest the day before yesterday. The way this has happened shows how important, permanent the threat is, how willing these killers are to do anything, to die to kill, and how much to remain extremely proactive and vigilant about the terrorist threat. You will probably not tell us much about the results of these searches, about the links with the attacks in Paris, about whether or not there is a direct threat of attacks against the Belgian population at that time. Nevertheless, I would like to go back to some elements. First of all, I think that we have avoided the worst, with regard to our police forces, because there have still been four minor injuries and perhaps also with regard to the population. I heard that they were very professional police officers who had acted very professionally. But, on the modus operandi, what lessons do you learn from how they can protect themselves from such violence and from the general modus operandi of such searches in the context of the fight against terrorism? Mr Minister, I also wonder about the means of combating terrorism and I would like to express my disappointment at the extremely slow implementation of these measures. This is not the first time the CDH has asked you about this since the beginning of the legislature. At your request, there has been, for example, the establishment of a committee on combating terrorism in our Parliament. Today, this committee has not produced any results at all. Although it is meeting tomorrow, this committee has not even met for three weeks, as if we could wait. At best, it will be able to produce an opinion which it will forward to the Committee on Institutional Reforms. It's very weak. Secondly, what has become of this 400 million announcement effect? How many euros have been spent on the fight against terrorism? Thirdly, we have seen the link between Salafism and jihadism. We regularly return to this point. When will we stop the international financing of Salafism in Belgium? It has a deplorable effect on part of our Muslim population. This point seems extremely important to me. The mayor of Forest made statements about the terror fighters. He said he was vertically classifying the names given to him. What do you think of this statement?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u5	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to welcome the work of the police teams in protecting the forest population and in resolving this investigation, although it has not yet been completed. I'd like to take a sad list with you. In the Liège killing, Amrani used an FN assault rifle. In the killing of the Jewish Museum in Brussels, Nemmouche used at least one Kalachnikov. In the missed Thalys attacks in Paris, El Khazzani used a weapon of war which he said he found in a park in Brussels. For Charlie Hebdo's attack, Coulibaly used a Kalachnikov and a rocket launcher that passed through Belgium, through an intermediary, a Belgian broker, Mr Geens. In Verviers, we also found an arsenal of war. The investigations carried out in the context of the Paris attacks have demonstrated – and it is the Sûreté that has said so – that terrorist candidates are seeking weapons in our territory. Finally, the day before yesterday, in Forest, your policemen, our policemen, were shot by a Riot Gun and Kalashnikov. Weapons and ammunition on the battlefields are on our streets, Minister. There is absolutely nothing among the twelve measures you presented in January 2015 to combat illegal or legal arms trafficking. In the 18 measures, Mr Geens, presented in November 2015, also does not figure anything that would make Belgium no longer a hub for arms trafficking. Minister of Justice, what are you going to do to fill this legal vacuum that has existed since 2003 with respect to arms brokers? Today, intermediaries for the sale of arms can do what they want in Belgium! Minister of the Interior, to the extent of the plan you presented last November, it was intended to make inaccessible the websites preaching hatred. Are you considering doing the same for sites that offer weapons of war?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u6	Mr President, Minister, allow me to begin by thanking the police and the security services that day after day for our security. As the facts have shown this week, they must do so with danger to their own lives. Unfortunately, the chance to face a kalashnikov in Brussels has become much greater than the chance to encounter a native Brussels-speaking Fleming. What was supposed to be a banal search was a shooting of Muslim terrorists in Vorst this week, or Molenbeek bis. Two life-threatening armed criminal terrorists are still a fugitive. The 35-year-old Mohamed Belkaid, with an IS flag next to him, was luckily eliminated thanks to a sniper. Minister, it is not very trusting that this illegal Algerian was not even on a list of suspected terrorists. He may have been a stranger to the terror services, but not to the police, because apparently he was arrested for theft a few years ago. That is why I want to know whether it is correct that, in 2014, he was given one of the 49 000 orders to leave the territory. If so, if he did receive that order, I would like to know whether he was effectively expelled. The figures unfortunately show that this is rarely the case. Recent figures for the year 2015, which I received from you, show that every person who gets such an order to leave the territory, on average, gets twice. Unfortunately, that is not more than a piece of paper. A genuine return policy is not bound by that. The police have to risk their lives today for someone who should have been deported, and that is particularly harsh. The Prime Minister said that a tragedy was avoided. I do grant this government a prime minister of happiness, but at some point, happiness is gone. Therefore, Minister, I would like to know from you how far you stand in dealing with Muslim terrorists and how far you stand in the fight against illegal arms trafficking?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u7	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Minister, this morning I had a sunny discussion, including around the Channel Zone. We are in the process of preparing to work together with the police forces in that area on common problems. I can tell you that the atmosphere was somewhat depressed as a result of the misery we all experience again in the Channel Zone as a result of the attack in Vorst. I sincerely hope that in your response you will be able to give good news about the situation of the police people concerned who were injured. I think that many people are missing the difficulty that policemen have been working in this country for months or years. Having said that, we all cannot ignore the fact that it is again about particular violence, about the use of kalashnikovs, that police services are surprised when they knock on a door about who is hiding behind it. Plenty of questions arise. To what extent was everything well prepared for the surrounding schools? I don't know. Further research will have to prove all that. I know, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that there are many very interesting proposals on the table in this House because of both opposition and majority, even drafts, but for some reason this is not progressing. Tomorrow, the Counter-Terrorism Committee will meet and we hope that this will lead to a deblocking. At the end of the day, it's easy to pass laws. There's a majority, and if the lights are green, there's a law. It has to be done on the ground, of course. I would like to appeal to the mass proposals on the table, supplemented by educational analyses from the P and I committees. We absolutely need to make progress in the day-to-day follow-up of the illegal arms trade. We need to bring a police structure to the capital that protects our policemen, which is performant and unified. We need to work better on information exchange. Last but not least, one of the most important issues in security policy is ensuring that the population registers are correct. This too should be made a priority. It's painful for policemen to knock on doors without knowing who lives there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u8	Mr President, Minister, the fight against terrorism will not end quickly, and we are all aware of that. Last Tuesday, facts came up again during a search of the Prince's house. Many speakers give a positive signal to the police, but they do so reluctantly. What happened on Tuesday proves that both our services working in the interests of our security and our policemen have done wonderful work on the ground. I believe that this should be stated explicitly, not reluctantly. In addition to all criticism, it should be emphasised that last Tuesday's action did bring results. It also showed that cooperation between the Belgian and French police services is a good thing. We hope that this will continue. False passports were found, weapons were seized and interesting information was found that could be further investigated. All these positive things must not be swept under the mat. I regret that, in such circumstances, people are always looking for the negative. There is indeed work to be done, no one denies it. But here the emphasis must be on the positive work that these people have done. According to some, certain mistakes were made during the search. However, teachers at the police school clearly say that few assignments are as precarious as a search. We now want to investigate whether the search has gone by the book. Hence my question, Minister, do you have any information that indicates that certain mistakes would have been made? I don't think so, but I'd like to hear it from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u9	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Tuesday, Brussels, our Region, our city, has once again been placed in unpleasant light. On Tuesday, teams intervened in a building in one of the 19 municipalities of the Brussels Region. Like some of my colleagues, I want to stress the great professionalism, the great cold-bloodedness of our forces of law and order. However, like my colleague Degroote, I will not follow up on this criticism by saying: "We have extraordinary police officers, but..." No, there's no "but"! The quality of their work, their professionalism, must be emphasized. What we saw on Tuesday was that these searches justified two things. The first is the whole series of dynamic actions carried out by the government and our parliament since the beginning of this legislature. I say it, Mr Dallemagne, insistently, "since the beginning of this legislature"! The second is that the means that the government has put at the disposal of what is known as the Canal Plan, the plan to combat terrorism, are fully justified. On the first aspect, I will not remind you of the 12 measures decided in January, the 18 measures of November, or the details of the 400 million, because, Mr Thiébaut, in the 400 million, there are 300 of them, the details of which you will find on the Prime Minister's website. The question does not seem to me to have to be asked the Minister of the Interior. Minister, I would like to ask you two questions. Can you tell us what new measures will still be discussed and announced by the government? Can you give us a guarantee that the resources made available to Brussels areas, which are actually mobilised under the Canal Plan, will remain available in Brussels, notwithstanding all the means that you must also deploy elsewhere, particularly under the Medusa Plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u10	Last Tuesday, Brussels was once again shocked by an anti-terrorist campaign. During a routine search, federal police officers were shot and four out of six officers were wounded as if by miracle. I wish them a speedy recovery. Since the Paris attacks in November, the investigation of the anti-terror unit has been under way. It is thanks to the excellent work of those detectives that the federal police have exposed the Prince's terror cell. On behalf of my group, I would like to congratulate and thank the detectives for their good work. Since November, more than 100 searches have been carried out and more than 50 people have been interviewed in the context of the investigation into the Paris attacks. It is remarkable, however, that yesterday two terrorists escaped. Unfortunately, one of the main suspects of the Paris attacks is still unaccounted for. The question is how easily these terrorists can disappear and stay under the radar at a time when the fight against terrorism is being stepped up in our country. I come to my questions to the Ministers. First of all, the operation was part of a routine house search. How was the search prepared? In what way were the risks assessed? Secondly, the French police were also involved in the anti-terror operation as part of a joint investigation team. What is the role of the joint investigation team? How is cooperation arranged? Thirdly, what lessons can be drawn from the operation for future police operations? Finally, Minister of Justice, what about the anonymity of agents involved in such actions, so that their names do not end up in the criminal record and thus end up with terrorists through lawyers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u11	Mr President, I am delighted to note that, across all the groups of majority and opposition, everyone has expressed their gratitude for our policemen working day and night for the safety of us, our companies and our institutions. I am delighted to say so, and I agree on behalf of the government. [[Applause]] The action could have had a completely different outcome. That proves once again the risky nature of the policeman's profession. Mr Bonte, yesterday we met the policemen, including the, luckily but, slightly hurt. They may not yet be fully back on alert because they were in shock for several hours after they were confronted with death. They are up and running and motivated. I think they have greatly appreciated the fact that both the government and the sovereign have come to their senses. So that's going well. Colleagues, we are taking all possible measures to protect our police services as much as possible. Unfortunately, it's not always possible. The prince was not in Prince, but in the police headquarters. We are taking all possible measures to protect our police services to the maximum extent possible. The standard procedure for such actions is as follows: an ad hoc risk analysis is always carried out by the police for each search. On the basis of this analysis, the police decide how to intervene, if the support of special forces or specialized equipment is necessary. I can confirm that, in this case too, this procedure has been followed in detail. May I also point out that since the attacks in Paris we have been under general threat level 3. All our services have been operating since then in the highest state of preparedness. I know, but if a situation of level 3 is maintained for a few months, there is a tendency to be used to it, to public opinion and to the public. However, we are doing everything we can to ensure that this does not occur in the security services. In this sense, Tuesday evening proved that the threat level 3 was not taken out of the sky and that the OCAD and the security services correctly and realistically assessed the situation. It also proves that we are dealing with organised groups of professionals here. Our security services are professionals, but the enemy they are dealing with is equally professional. They pose major challenges for our security services. They're unpredictable and can strike unexpectedly. That makes them a very difficult enemy to fight. In view of the events, we can say that the government has chosen the right path. The measures that have been and will be taken will only be conducive to security. We must therefore continue in this direction. Now we must support the police and continue to empower them to meet the challenge. I would like to emphasise that 100 percent of security can never be guaranteed, but that all the security services are in full swing day and night to ensure maximum security for all citizens. As far as the means are concerned, 300 million have already been released out of the 400 promised. They will be used for the police component to increase the actual number of police officers by 1,000. A total of 1,400 police officers will be hired this year and for the next two years, including the replacement of officers who leave the police. Mr Dallemagne, please be aware that three bills to take further action will be on the agenda of the Counter-Terrorism Committee next week. Mr Hellings, as you said, with regard to the measure to stop hate websites, the Council of European Ministers of the Interior is looking at a European directive to combat arms trafficking. On this occasion, the issue of arms trafficking websites is also addressed. Mr Geens will speak to you in a moment about the measures taken on this subject at Belgian level. Mr Pivin, I can confirm to you that, in the 300 million that we are talking about, the resources for the Canal Plan and the Brussels component are still available.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u12	Mr President, like my colleague Jambon, I can only say for the good of what our police and judicial services achieved the day before yesterday. At the time the six policemen entered the apartment, at least two people armed with a Riot Gun and a Kalashnikov immediately opened fire. During the exchanges, three police officers and one member of the special units were injured. With regard to the preparation of the search, I can fully endorse what Mr Jambon said, in particular that the search was as well prepared as possible in those circumstances. What struck us very strongly when our services last night were with the king and some members of the government, including the Prime Minister, is that they all said that they would do exactly the same if they had to do it again. As Mr Yüksel said, over a hundred searches have been carried out over the last year and only one third of the cases have involved special units. Last Tuesday's search was what's called a cold, unreinforced search. This means that an empty building was expected to be found, and there was every reason to do so. Nevertheless, there were six policemen present, all professional people from the Islamequipe of our judicial police in Brussels. They wore anti-corrosive vests and had taken all possible tactical precautions. That's why they didn't end up getting hurt. In addition, the first teams of the special units were on site after about ten minutes. It was eventually one of those people who got hurt by the person left behind in the apartment. Maybe it's important to explain why French policemen were involved. That question was also asked. The presence of French investigators results from the fact that the investigation is conducted by a joint investigation team. This is part of an intensive cooperation and exchange of data between investigators and between the judicial authorities of the two countries. Such cooperation severely limits the administrative burden characteristic of international mutual legal assistance and makes the exchange of information faster and more effective. It allows investigators to carry out investigative duties in both countries, as if it were in their own country. In concrete terms, the minutes drawn up in both France and Belgium are entered directly in the respective judicial files without the need to exchange letters of request. The person who was killed was, according to police documentation, Mr. Mohamed Belkaid. He had declared that he had Algerian nationality and was illegally staying in Belgium. He was not known to the judicial and police authorities, with the exception of a single theft in 2014. Investigations into this matter are still under way. Mr Hellings, I still have to answer your questions about weapons. The weapons in question are obviously prohibited weapons, which are regularly used in the terrorist environment. Our Government is working to make the fight against the possession of and trafficking in these weapons more efficient. For example, on Friday of last week, a bill extending telephone taps to the illegal arms trade was approved at second reading by the Council of Ministers. It will be the subject of discussions in the Committee on Terrorism – which I have heard that it will no longer meet, that it has no object. It will meet tomorrow and next week on this bill which the government approved immediately after Paris and which has already passed before the Council of State. This will allow for further detection of the illegal arms trade. At European level, for the time being, the Commission has adopted a regulation which sets out the procedure for the uniform neutralisation of firearms. The Royal Decree transposing this regulation has already been drafted and is under consideration by the Consultative Council on Arms. The royal decree will soon be discussed within the government so that, in a short time, the opinion of the Council of State can be requested. Recently, I heard about 2003. The Inter-federal Coordinating Committee on Combating the Illegal Production of and Trade in Arms met for the first time since 2003. In terms of inter-federal cooperation, I believe that this measure deserves to be mentioned. With regard to the contribution of Justice to the budget of 300 million, the various dossiers in preparation for new recruitments to combat terrorism in Brussels and outside Brussels are currently in the Treasury Inspectorate. The best use of the 72 million is therefore being made. As far as anonymity is concerned, the draft potpourri IV is likely to be approved by the government next Friday. It contains the long-promised measures guaranteeing the anonymity of police officers in judicial investigations. Just yesterday we were able to see how much our police people appreciated not being photographed and remain anonymous.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u13	Ministers, thank you. I remain sceptical about some of the answers that have been given, particularly as regards the quality of cooperation with French services. On Tuesday, the French Minister of the Interior was quite sober in his statements, but recently he complained about the quality of cooperation and the lack of proactivity on the Belgian side in the fight against terrorism. I would like to reassure our colleague Dallemagne: the mayor of Forest has obviously never said that he vertically classified the information he received from the State Security on the lists. He said it was very difficult to use these lists as presented today by the federal government. There is work to be done here and the grievances of the mayors must be heard. Finally, I fear that it is the effectiveness of our police services that we owe the success of operations and not at all the actions that are being taken by the government. When will the promised 1,400 policemen arrive? It is now that we need means and not in three or four months! Until then, the street police officers will still be in danger and will still be in danger of meeting armed Kalashnikov people.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u14	Ministers, thank you for your answers. There are a few questions you haven't quite answered. As far as the FTFs are concerned, we will listen again to the RTBF band, Mr. Thiébaut, but I have heard the word "classification". However, it is a cornerstone of the fight against terrorism that seems to pose difficulties for some. It doesn't seem very operational. Mr. Minister of the Interior, you have not answered this question. It is important to know whether it works or not, whether these lists are operational or not, and whether terrorism can be combated through this mechanism. Mr. Minister of Justice, you have not answered the question of the fight against Salafism and its international financing. This is not the first time I've asked you about this. I think it's time to break up this funding, to stop the funding of Salafism in Belgium. We see how dangerous this can be for our people. With regard to the budget, you replied that 300 million had been allocated. For my part, I wanted to know how many millions had been committed and spent. That is what matters, not projections or promises. These are at least three questions you haven't answered. Finally, it is time to recall that the chamilleries and tensions within the government are indecent in terms of the level of threat and concentration required in the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u15	Mr Pivin, despite the 12 and 18 measures, criminals can now obtain Kalachnikovs or riot guns in Belgium. That's the truth. Mr Jambon said earlier: "All measures are taken to protect our policemen". Well, no! Despite all these initiatives, it is possible for a terrorist candidate to buy weapons of war – which must be on the battlefield, and not on the streets. Mr. Jambon, someone who illegally uploads TV series, music or movies may come across a blocked site. How is it that so much money and resources are being spent on blocking these kinds of sites, which are not criminal, but that we are not able – in Belgium, without waiting for a European initiative – to do the same for sites that sell weapons of war? Finally, Mr. Geens, I understand that you are working on the revision of the 2003 Act. It's time! I've been asking you the question for 15 months. If you don't, Mr. Van Hecke and I will take care of it. In fact, brokers are currently working in the worst illegal situation and acting as intermediaries between sellers and arms buyers who hurt our police officers and terrorize our populations. We must combat this phenomenon. We're going to do it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u16	Gentlemen ministers, I have heard many answers to questions that have not even been asked, but unfortunately I have not received an answer to my question as to whether the illegally shot in Prince was effectively expelled from the country when he was ordered to leave the country. On the other hand, I am glad that I have not heard any punitive promises that you cannot keep. You might as well have used tough language and said that you would comb home to home Frost, as you announced earlier on Molenbeek. After all, we need more than strong language and good intentions. You have taken a number of terrorist measures, which are necessary, but they are late and, unfortunately, insufficient. A number of aspects are not raised at all, not even reluctantly, such as Islamisation and the approach to illegality. The case in Vorst was another sad example of that. Please increase the capacity in the closed centres so that an effective return policy can be pursued. Finally, there is the open border policy. Gentlemen, I would like to recommend to you the reading of a report published yesterday by Dick Schoof, the National Coordinator on Combating Terrorism and Security in the Netherlands. In that report, on the basis of information provided by the intelligence services, he states very specifically that there is a direct link between the open border policy that you and the European Union are pursuing and the IS fighters who are coming here organised. In other words, the more rubber boats, the greater the chance of a new Paris. It is high time to guard the borders and not just on the coast.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u17	Mr President, Ministers, I too have not received any answers to my questions, but that is up to me. After all, my colleague pointed out that I did not ask a question. However, I would like to make three further reservations. Mr Nones, when I hear the analysis of the unenforced intervention that has been there, it raises questions. There are many police areas and police forces where such searches cannot be carried out with six people. There one has to do it alone, or with two people. I would just like to point out that this is a curious number to raid an apartment where one assumes that there is no one. I see under my nose much thinner seeded patrols doing such business. Secondly, you mentioned your bill. We are indeed asking parties. There are legislative proposals about majority and opposition that mean about the same thing as your draft. So we will take advantage of this. I want to make a point anyway. Making a law is one thing, but one must also ensure that one has capacity and people to carry out the analyses. It is estimated that there are 100 000 illegal weapons in Brussels. Finally, it has been pointed out that professional police officers are opposed to professionally organised criminals. This is right. Unfortunately, they often fish behind the net. All I want to say is that we need to give these professional police officers an effective police structure in the capital so that mobility and the police chaos they use cease to exist. I think we'll be fishing behind the net less quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u18	Gentlemen, I thank you both for the comprehensive answer. As far as the search is concerned, I understand that everything went according to the standard formulas. Of course, you can't provide for everything. In this way, the simplest assignment can lead to the most dangerous. You can't predict that. No one has a glass ball. One of the previous speakers did not ask a question, but criticised the work of the Counter-Terrorism Committee. I can only remind him of the words of the Prime Minister in the Chamber shortly after the attacks in Paris. Following the establishment of the committee, the Prime Minister said that it was the intention to work beyond party boundaries. I would therefore call on you to continue to do so and not make cooperation in safety matters dependent on any compensation or condition. Finally, my thoughts go out to the victims last Tuesday. Our thoughts remain with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u19	Mr. Chair, Minister, I would like to join with the thanks that have just been expressed for both the response of the Minister of Justice and yours. You are announcing the forthcoming adoption of new measures. You're continuing the work. It's obvious and you're doing it dynamically. Perhaps it has not been stressed enough that this is a dynamic which is also being encountered in the Committee on Terrorism chaired by Mr Metsu and which, I think, will meet in the near future tomorrow or next Friday. I sincerely thank you for ensuring that the availability of the areas affected by the Canal Plan is maintained. They need it a lot. I will conclude by saying that, like many, police officers need support and recognition. I think you brought them both this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u20	Mr President, I would like to thank both ministers for the answer. I understand the search went by the book. I am also pleased, Minister of Justice, that the proposal to guarantee the anonymity of the agents is being implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from the measures announced in this House in November that this government is serious about the fight against terrorism. Initiatives have already been taken on many issues and the draft laws will be dealt with in committee as of next week. Frost has once again demonstrated the sense of urgency, because terrorists never sleep. We must be absolutely aware of this and act on it, majority and opposition. I call on everyone to step up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u21	Mr President, Minister, yesterday, unfortunately the social partners have not yet been able to finalize the negotiations on the right to strike. Perhaps the context was not conducive, given the perspective for the bosses that the majority would solve the problem. I would like to recall here that the right to strike is a pillar of our social democracy, but also of our democracy as such. It is a right which is enshrined in fundamental conventions at the international level. Minister, you are responsible for social consultation within this government and, in doing so, directly responsible for the proper conduct of the negotiations. The social partners left while the positions were still diverging. Sending the hot potato back to parliament is a hasty solution. As the competent minister, will you personally be involved as a mediator by putting everyone around the table and using your great negotiating skills to achieve a balanced agreement? What schedule are you going to set? What solutions are you going to propose? Or do you want to undermine or be complicit in undermining this social and democratic balance?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u22	Mr President, Minister, we have seen with you that the social partners have not reached an agreement on the right to strike. That was written in the stars, but I do regret it, because you and the government have on several occasions given the social partners the opportunity to work effectively on modernising the gentlemen's agreement. Unfortunately, this has not been achieved. You said yesterday that politics is now on. I agree with that. In fact, we said this a few months ago in this House. Politics must effectively take matters into its own hands. We must look at what decisions we can take, without underlining this, and I would like to stress that we must touch upon the essence of the right to strike. The right to strike is not under discussion, but we do want to work on the right to work. I believe that there is room-wide willingness to do so. People who want to work during a strike should be able to. Misbehaviour during a strike must also be addressed. We must make an urgent effort to do this, because if something dramatic happens at a next strike, which I do not hope to do, then each of us in the Chamber will be responsible for it. I would like to emphasise that. Minister, what shall we do? What will you do? You know you just have to wink and we'll get started.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u23	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, the social partners have indeed failed to strengthen and further concreteise the men's agreement of 2002. We very much regret that. It is not easy to reach agreements on a sensitive issue in the run-up to social elections, but if we look back ten or fifteen years in time and compare it with today, then the figures show that the number of social conflicts is now much lower. The social climate is better than it was ten years ago, ladies and gentlemen. This means that there is a great deal of common sense on the company floor. It cannot be difficult to find solutions with that common sense on the basis of two principles which we hope the whole Chamber will agree on. Firstly, we are trying to prevent and resolve social conflicts. Secondly, where this is not possible, workers have the right to strike, and that means that they also have the right to peacefully convince their colleagues to participate in the strike. In addition, workers and servants who want to work also have the right to work and should not be physically hindered. Setting up highways and denying access to their businesses to people who want to do their jobs is out of the question. Colleagues, the social partners have, hopefully, temporarily put themselves out of business. However, this does not prevent them from being and will remain the main players and that we will have to involve them in any initiative. Mr President, it is indeed up to the government or Parliament, or both. However, our group is concerned about an escalation of this dossier. We must not make things more difficult than they already are, which makes it more difficult to do things in the workplace. The good social climate must be maintained. Mr Vice-Presidents, how can we continue to follow up on this dossier and still maintain serenity?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u24	Mr President, the social partners could not agree to modernise the 2002 agreements. We must take note of that. We regret it all the more bitterly because the government had given them more time so that, in view of a difficult balance to achieve, they could produce a synthesis of public interest between the essential respect for the right to strike and the essential respect for workers in their freedom to access their place of work. This is, moreover, the meaning of the proposal that the MR has put forward, but speaking of failure is a mistake. Indeed, many meetings have taken place. It would be useful to hear from you, Mr. Minister, about the agreements reached in this negotiation, because there are some, and it is not a failure on the whole line. Thank you for specifying them! Thank you also for telling us what these agreements can become! I would also ask you to clarify the points of disagreement. If my information is accurate, one of the issues would be roadblocking, another one would be blockage of business areas. In our view, freedom of movement for workers is an essential element, with which we can no longer compromise in the light of a number of excesses and slippages that we have seen recently. I repeat, we would have preferred this synthesis of general interest by the social partners. It is now a matter for the policy to assume its responsibilities. We have made a proposal so that, in consultation with the government, we can hold hearings in this Parliament, which will enable us to work on this issue calmly, in a balanced way, by listening to the social partners, national and international experts. They will also be able to inform us about the legislative summaries carried out in other countries on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u25	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the social partners were indeed unable to agree. It's too bad, but the story isn't over. While it is true that it is up to today's policies to take over, I think it would be a mistake if they wanted to do so alone, exclusively, without the social partners. Policies must take the lead, but they must do things in collaboration with the social partners, in close connection with them. Today you cannot ignore the points of break-up and tension between the employer and the trade union ban. Obviously, the majority is hesitant. Is it the parliament that has to deal with it or, on the contrary, does the government have to keep its hand? Colleagues, we regularly have more than the impression that the parties of the majority are having a hard time making compromises within the government. I think things would be much harder in Parliament. In other words, if you choose to refer this matter back to Parliament, despite all the respect I have for my colleagues, it may be a first-class funeral. It is your responsibility, Deputy Prime Minister; it is your competence and that of the government. What are you going to do? Keep your hand and assume your responsibility within the government? Is it clear to you that if you take your hand, you will act with the social partners? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u26	Mr President, Minister, we have learned from the press that negotiations between the social partners have not been successful. I'm sorry. In the political debate today, it is important to be able to outline the reasons for this non-agreement. We are not talking here about the protection of the right to strike in general, but about very concrete points which have been put forward by the employer in the current negotiations. I would have liked to know your position with regard to these employers' requests. The first employer demand put forward is that of having the right to continue to employ temporary workers in the event of a strike, which amounts to breaking a strike movement in a company by continuing to employ the weakest workers, those who are the least protected. It's a request from the employer. That is one of the reasons why the negotiations are not succeeding today. In fact, you know that in Belgium there is a collective agreement on interprofessional work which prohibits this. In fact, the employer is now asking for the rejection of this interprofessional CTC. I would remind you that the International Labour Organization is very clear on the subject. She says that the use of a foreign labour force to break a strike is completely illegal. A second request from the employer is the condemnation of the principle of worker mobilization, i.e. the removal of the right to strike of a worker who is not part of a company but feels connected to the cause. This employer's request is quite illegal as well. A judgment of the Court of Cassation of 1981 is very clear on the subject: the right to strike is an individual right. This type of reform aimed at prohibiting workers from taking a strike even if they are not part of the enterprise was established in England in the 1980s by Mrs Thatcher. This is a request today from the employer's bank in the negotiations with the Group of Ten. A third point asked by the employers today is the ban on zoning pickets and roadblocks. Here too, ladies and gentlemen, the ILO is very clear. It advocates limiting the right to strike only for the essential services of society, including medical care. She's not talking about roadblocking at all. Mr Minister, in the light of these demands from employers whose aim is clear and clear, namely to emptie the right to strike in Belgium in concrete terms, will you take on your responsibilities as a democrat? Will you defend this right to strike against these employers' interests, which today prohibit access to an agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u27	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we have already come a long way in this matter. When I hear the statements made by my fellow Members from the majority, I see that we have evolved into one clear position. Mr Demir, Mr Verherstraeten and Mr Ducarme have already summarised it, there is a right to strike and we are not going to touch it. It is not about this either, Mr Hedebouw, it is about the right to work and access to the workplace. That is what we want to guarantee, that is what the MR wants to guarantee with its legislative proposal, that is what Mr Demir wants to guarantee and CD&V equally. Minister, you are right to note that, after all the efforts and timelines, the social partners have not been able to enforce this guarantee. You are right to say that it is now up to politics. Only now is the question of exactly what form that will take and there are a number of slopes possible. You know that we are asking for hearings on the Committee on Social Affairs. The government can also, of course, continue to play its role, together with you, in tackling this problem. My question is how we will proceed in this matter, knowing that we want to guarantee these two important principles, the right of strike and the right of access to the workplace? Mr Hedebouw, I would like to say one more thing about what you have just said. That is legal nonsense, and you even defend the fact that blockades would be part of the international right to strike. International law clearly describes the right to strike and the blocking of a road, the removal of a business site, the removal of a road where no one can filter through and through which one cannot get to work has nothing to do with the right to strike. I am very sorry that you are not even concerned with the people who simply want to go to work, no more than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u28	Mr President, Minister, dialogue and social peace are essential to the smooth functioning of our economy. They are particularly fragile, especially in the context we know: this uncertain budgetary control, but for which some are advocating for new social security savings; the way in which the current government has legislated, for example in the area of pensions, without taking into account the views of the social partners; the linear savings that have been achieved – EUR 4.3 billion: this is the government's ambition for the whole legislature in terms of social security, with very clear consequences for women, young people, more fragile people. The situation is difficult. It is in this context that the social partners have not been able to agree, despite the steps taken by both sides to update this herenakkoord, which in recent years has allowed things to go well overall, with some regrettable exceptions. Perhaps some people hoped that by sending the ball back to the government, the government would decide in their favour, as in other cases. Others are more of a provocation. That's the case with Mrs. Demir. I think we need to be able to calm down. I really invite you, minister, not to be provocative – but it is not in your nature, I am reassured about it – and rather to lead to a solution that will allow everyone to be there. Minister, how do you intend to attack this issue, now that the ball is on the side of the government, and in any case more on the side of the social partners? Are you going to involve the parliament? It is not something that scares my group: we can also participate in the reflection. Above all, how can we restore calm and serenity in social dialogue? This is the best way to avoid strikes, whether wild or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like you, I regret that the social partners in the Group of Ten have not reached a compromise on the existing gentlemen's agreement of 2002. I very much regret, together with you, that the Group of Ten has not reached an agreement. The government has given extra time to bring about a modernisation of the gentlemen's agreement. The Prime Minister and I have spoken behind the scenes with all the social partners and have done everything possible to make an agreement possible. As we have understood, there are three differences: firstly, the list of actions which would be illegal or unlawful; secondly, a contact person at each strike and the extent to which that person or organisation he represents is responsible for the unlawful actions and, thirdly, the employment of interim workers during actions. What's to be done now? First of all, I would like to stress that the 2002 gentlemen's agreement is not questioned by anyone. All members of the Group of Ten agree that the 2002 agreement is still an important agreement. That agreement expressly states that the right to strike is respected, but also the right to work for anyone who wishes to work. The number of social conflicts in enterprises has decreased in recent years and has not increased. The existing sectoral agreements on social conflict management are numerous and work well. Faced with this failed attempt to adapt the 2002 gentlemen's agreement, we must now look at what is the best solution. In the coming days, we will organise a contact between the government and the chairmen of the various political groups. I believe that this should be done as quickly as possible, so that it is clear to both Parliament and the government how we will deal with this. If you are concerned about that, we will certainly not avoid our responsibility. The bottomline is that we have to make clear agreements on the right to strike, especially for those who want to work. In practice, the strikes that are taking place must be the less strikes the better. The major challenge will be to minimise the number of social conflicts in Belgium. That is something that we all need to work on.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u30	Mr President, Minister, I hear you regret the situation. You gave the Group of Ten time, but you did not sit at the negotiating table. You are now saying that you are going to consult the group presidents. But that's not what you're asked for. What we're asking you is to "wet" you and play your part so that an agreement can be reached. I'm really afraid we're going to use the abuses – certainly abuses – to unravel everything. Let me remind you of what happened almost fifty years ago to the day. At the time, 3,000 women-machines of the FN went on strike with the slogan "for equal work, equal pay. This event marked social history. It is an example of social progress driven by mobilization. We can't muzzle unions. The right to strike cannot be emptied of its substance by wrongly opposing the right to work. The right to strike is the defence of the right to work. It is the ultimate bulwark against injustice and exploitation. This can only be done in the context of a balanced consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u31	I would like to say the following to the colleagues of the PS and the comrades of PVDA. We cannot keep turning rounds and sticking our heads in the sand. That may be what you would do, but we will not. I agree with the Minister that there are hardly any strikes at company level. That's right. I notice that social dialogue works at enterprise level. At national level, something may go wrong and fail. Only when something goes wrong will we consider how to ensure that workers who wish to work during a strike can do so effectively. The Minister and other majority parties have said so. There is a broad agreement on this. You may be against that, but we are not. We want to respect that. Minister, it is good that you are in contact with the group chairmen of all parties. My group has a bill ready. That bill can't be taken or left. We want to use it as a starting point to get on with the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u32	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. I would like to take this opportunity to make another appeal to all the social partners. Today they may be sitting on the couch, but every football player sitting on the couch knows he can be called on the field and then make a difference. I expect the social partners to take initiatives, either formally or informally, at least to talk to each other. Any agreement that is concluded, or any regulation that is made, will have to be respected, applied and implemented by them. So they didn't get rid of it. They will continue to be involved and therefore have a responsibility in this regard. I call on them to take responsibility. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you spoke of the best solution. I agree with you. The best solution, according to our group, is a strike that does not take place because the parties have reached an agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u33	Mr. Ducrame did not ask for a reply. I give you the floor, Mrs Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u34	Mr President, thank you. I thought it wasn't because Mr. Ducrame was gallant! Minister, you have referred to some important points. Firstly, the social partners retain the 2002 agreement in its entirety. Then, as you said, the right to strike must be maintained, but it cannot be considered absolute and limitless. In this respect, any progress that would make it possible to break out of a failure situation, because - it is true, Mr Verherstraeten, any strike constitutes one - must guarantee the balance between the right to strike and the right to work. On the other hand, minister, the rest of your answer was, at least, nebulous. With regard only to the method, I did not understand whether it was up to the government or Parliament to take an initiative. This shows that, just this plan, the government is not able to agree. Of course, let us not talk about the substance, since it is even more complicated! To conclude, minister, wet your shirt! Assume yourself your position as Minister of Employment, in charge of Social Concertation! See the social partners in a tripartite way. It will therefore be possible to find positive solutions that respect both the right to strike and the right to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u35	Minister, I haven't heard much on the right-wing benches. I have heard very little from Members of this House about, for example, the proposal to allow temporary workers to work. That is a symbol of the real goal, namely the breaking of strikes. No one is saying anything about that, and that is one of the main points that the patronage has put on the table. But no one's talking about that. Everyone here wants to talk about the strike stakes. What's the philosophy of that? In 2016 there is no equality in a company between employee and employer in Belgium. This is because the employer has the economic power in the company. My mother was just thrown away because she was a union militant, discarded, thrown out, without any right. That's just true, but they don't like to hear it on the right. Why did that happen? Because in Belgium today an employer has the right to decide who is being thrown out or not. (Protests on the banks of the N-VA) The N-VA still needs to get to know social life. That's a little hard. I know it's all new to you. That's good for your ears.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u36	Mr. Hedebouw, would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u37	Mr President, my interesting speech is constantly being interrupted. I would like to make it clear to the N-VA that, in order to safeguard the right to strike in Belgium, workers in small businesses of, for example, ten employees, where an employer can prohibit them from stopping, strike stakes are needed. Therefore, Minister, in the coming weeks you will have to take real responsibility for helping the social partners and their social partners, as you know who I am talking about, to maintain the right to strike in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u38	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to learn that trade union blood is apparently hereditary in Mr Hedebouw. My dear friend Raoul, with all due respect, I'd like to tell you that what you're saying is completely incorrect. When it comes to temporary agency workers, it is about temporary agency workers who have been working in a company for a long time. It's not about breaking strikes, which you know very well. The PTB has infiltrated certain flanks of the trade unions and has them carrying out actions that are totally incompatible with the right to strike. You're blocking roads completely. That has nothing to do with strike pickets. You are also poisoning economic policy. You are the reason why we are having the whole debate here, because it is in this way that the reasonable trade unions are in a bad light. In all fairness, I would like to repeat what Mr Verherstraeten said. The majority parties must remain calm. The Minister also remains calm and will now consult with the group leaders, which is a good suggestion. You know, Minister, that we want Parliament to play an active role in the dossier. That could be helpful. After all, it is interesting to hear expertise on the subject and to see how far the dossier can go, on which there is consensus and which points of discussion remain. I would like to refer to the unitary statute. Your predecessor has also taken an initiative in this matter and the social partners have finally reached an agreement. (...): (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u39	That is true, but this morning they were suddenly no longer in favour of government interference by the Minister, which was very strange. Minister Peeters can follow the same path as his predecessor. I am sure that we will reach an agreement on the dossier, subject to some incentive, and that the agreement will provide the solution to guarantee the right of access to the workplace.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u40	Minister, this 2002 agreement was not a bad deal. I am not saying that because you were part of the negotiators in the Group of Ten, but because, since 2002 and Clabecq, despite a particularly difficult context and the rather unpleasant measures taken by the various governments after 2003, more serious incidents have been avoided. At times, we must remember the texts, we must reiterate that what is illegal is illegal, but we cannot use the ad hoc and regrettable incidents, which we have denounced, to undo what had been well done or to introduce into social law other unbearable provisions. Minister, today the ball returns to your side, and it is up to you to play. You must try, with or without parliament, to achieve a new balance that must not be too far from this text that has worked well. To achieve this, as part of today's fiscal adjustment and hot news, you cannot allow the social climate to deteriorate again. Mr Peeters, don't touch social security!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u41	Minister, your government seems under the spell of K3: hocus pocus, anyone can magic. That sounds like the soundtrack of this government's budget film; a budget film that started with the heavy mess of Johan Van Overtveldt, a well of 3.2 billion, the figure of the Monitoring Committee last week. On weekends, as Deputy Prime Minister, you say that it may be more than EUR 3.2 billion. After the weekend there turned out to be some kind of pot in Hertoginnedal and it was only 1.4 billion euros. Yesterday it was 500 million euros. Today you say it is EUR 2.3 billion. That is EUR 1 billion less than what the Monitoring Committee says. The Monitoring Committee is therefore optimistic on a number of points. The tax measure that Mr Van Overtveldt does not want to complete, is not even in the calculation of the Monitoring Committee. What's the starting point now? If you are talking about EUR 2.3 billion, what do you count and not count? That's my first question. My second question is: where are we going to get it? The IMF said yesterday that it is easy to save EUR 14 billion in social security. Mr. De Roover almost started watering his teeth. We almost had to stop the N-VA. That is the perfide strategy of your group, Mrs Demir. First of all, Mr Van Overtveldt makes holes in the budget, refuses to collect just taxes and then puts savings in social security back on the table. That is the N-VA's perfide strategy: afterward, knock on the door of people who are having a hard time, people who are working and today even those who are long-term. Van Overtveldt hits the breach in order to put the harsh N-VA program back on the table. You're bothered by this. The more the Flemish learn about the N-VA program, the more nervous the N-VA becomes. That's obvious. Mr Peeters, in your answer to my second question, I want you to be crystal clear to this Parliament and to the coalition partners. Say no to the austerity of your coalition partners in social security. That is what you need to do today, as you need to be clear about today's endeavor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u42	Mr Calvo, I must reassure you first of all. I can't sing, and that's not my ambition either. So let's stick to the figures. You have three questions, perhaps the only reference to K3. Your first question. What amount are we talking about? We have received from the Monitoring Committee a report that you have all looked at. That report of the Monitoring Committee contains an amount of 2 247 000 000. We're starting from that amount. There are still corrections to be made, but the basic amount for this government is 2.247 billion. That is the amount we are looking for with the technical corrections. I believe that we have every interest in doing this exercise seriously. We must tackle the challenge very clearly and communicate it clearly at the right time. I hope that with this clear figure I have answered the first question very clearly. Your second question concerns the IMF report. The IMF also makes reports on Belgium according to tradition. It would lead us too far to discuss that report in detail. According to my reading of the report, the IMF does not advocate savings in social security but rather more efficient organisation of social security expenditure. The efforts already made in the past in order to optimise these expenditures are held back as very positive by the IMF. I would add that it is an illusion to think that reducing a number of expenditure would also reduce the need for social spending. That's a connection that's not there. I have a third question to answer with regard to savings. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment the RVA has published its annual report. The annual report shows very clearly that between 2014 and 2016 the RVA will contribute 1,038 billion to the restructuring of the budget. That's an impressive figure. This obviously has to do with the economic situation, which has to do with demographic change, but this also has to do with the reforms undertaken by the previous government and this government to ensure that expenditure on total unemployment fell by 10.1% in 2015. I believe that these figures have shown that, especially with regard to the RVA and the budgets, a serious contribution has been made to the restructuring process. It responds perfectly to the challenges included in the IMF report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u43	Mr Peeters, first of all, you have not yet explained to me how you arrived at your new figure, which is already well over millions lower than the Monitoring Committee's estimate. I would ask the government, and I am looking at the President of the Chamber, to clarify this matter in this Chamber and to show honesty. Please do not let us push the effort forward to the next few years. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, I have not heard a clear answer to my question about savings in social security. Kris Peeters leaves that door open, and Peter De Roover and Bart De Wever can keep watering their teeth and hope that they will knock again on the door with people who are already having a hard time today and with people who are sick today. That door didn't close the Deputy Prime Minister. What the Deputy Prime Minister calls optimising social security spending has been pushing young people, job seekers towards poverty and the OCMW in recent years. That is the harsh reality behind the figures put forward by the Deputy Prime Minister! Thirdly and finally, I would like to thank this majority, especially because it is mobilizing for The Great Parade of Heart above Hard, Sunday. Because of the mess you have caused, because of the new savings you are announcing, there will be a lot of people who are tired of it on Sunday, Mrs Demir, which this government is letting loose on all of us. It may rain, it may snow, we will be with a lot of people on Sunday to say that it can and must be different in this country!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u44	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, last week we questioned the Prime Minister about the draft agreement with Turkey. My group leader rightly said here that we cannot negotiate our European values as we did at the Grand Bazar in Istanbul. Our criticism has been widely supported since then. It is clear that we cannot simply respond to the Turkish demands. Of course, we need to talk to that country, because it is an important link in the resolution of the migration crisis. Thinking that we can now completely outsource the control of this crisis to the Turks, ladies and gentlemen, would only demonstrate a real failure of the European Union. We are talking about a country where democracy and human rights are not moving in the right direction, a country where a critical newspaper has recently been taken over by the government. Thus, a deal can only be made in the move towards a common European asylum and migration policy, where we will at last jointly monitor our European borders and divide efforts to receive asylum seekers. We are not going to wait another month for that, ladies and gentlemen. In the short term, an agreement with Turkey can reduce pressure. We must avoid humanitarian catastrophes such as those in Greece, but a deal cannot be unconditional for us. That is why I have a number of questions for you, Mr Vice-President, to know what conditions the Belgian Government will include on the table. Firstly, how will you guarantee that the guarantees of international law and the Refugee Convention will apply in cooperation with Turkey? Secondly, can you assure us that visa liberalisation for Turkey cannot be achieved until all the conditions are met? Thirdly, will Belgium make it clear that Turkey's accession to the EU cannot be accelerated at all?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u45	Minister, I have three questions for you. Firstly, did you raise the issue of respect for human rights and freedom of the press during the bilateral talks and at the European table? I think that Europe and Belgium are far too quiet about this. Do you feel that these conversations have had an impact on the Turks? Secondly, we are going to give Turkey six billion figures circulating. I would ask that the agreement in the process should include guarantees on Turkey and Turkey's behaviour towards the refugees. A first guarantee I would like to make on behalf of my group concerns Turkey's behaviour in the border area between Turkey and Syria. We know that bombs are being bombed there, from Turkish side to Syrian side. An Amnesty International report also mentions the blocking of borders. Refugees are not getting through, only refugees who are potentially injured. There is even talk of shooting Syrians trying to cross the border. Will you include guarantees on that point in the agreement? Thirdly, our sister party in the Netherlands, the PvdA, has asked the Dutch Government to include in the future agreement with Turkey the guarantee that the return of refugees from Greece to Turkey can only begin when national Turkish legislation and the way in which the return will be organised are in accordance with the Geneva Convention. Will Belgium support this question? My group strongly insists on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u46	Mr President, Minister, in recent years, the government has developed a good habit of consulting Parliament before an important European summit, in order to reach a position that has been supported and to inform public opinion about the position that the government will take at that European summit. That has not happened here, and that is actually unacceptable. A meeting of the European Advisory Committee has been cancelled. We do not know today what Prime Minister Charles Michel is defending at that European summit. Such decisions should not be taken in the context of the government, but in Parliament, together with public opinion. Minister, last week Prime Minister Charles Michel himself made legal reservations about the agreement. Theo Francken also questioned the legal aspects of the agreement. He does not believe in that logic, because Turkey itself has very little interest in stopping those boats, not letting them leave for Greece, because in that case they themselves are stuck with a lot of refugees. Moreover, Spain and Cyprus are also very critical of the agreement. What are we gonna do? Are we really going to defend an agreement that allows war refugees to return to a country where they have no rights, namely Turkey, where they do not have the right to apply for asylum, where they do not have the right to work, where their children cannot follow education, a country where human rights are not respected? This is morally unacceptable, of course, and it seems as if we and Europe have completely forgotten our own history, our own two world wars. The agreement with Turkey can only be a sham solution. Perhaps we can buy some time, perhaps we can give the impression of unity within Europe, but a calm and clear conscience, Minister, is not for sale. Erdogan is not the person to guard our external borders; we must do so ourselves. And we must do so by registering and by deciding clearly and purely who is allowed to stay in Europe and who is not. If we can no longer do so today with a European Union of 28 Member States, then perhaps it is time to think about a core Europe, a core Europe that is capable of tackling such political challenges and serious crises. We are at an impasse and I expect Belgium to have a clear position and a leading role in the new Europe, a new Europe that we really need.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u47	Mr President, Minister, an agreement has already been reached with Turkey in November. According to that agreement, Turkey should have stopped the boats carrying refugees to Greece. However, Turkey did not honour any of its commitments. In January and February of this year 137 000 people went from Turkey to Greece. That's ten times more than in the same two months of last year. Meanwhile, Turkey is only pushing up the price. They do not comply with the agreements, but they now want six billion, early visa freedom and accelerated accession negotiations. In the pre-arrangement, you agreed to these principles together with your team of weak European Union citizens. You're being blackmailed by Erdogan. And Erdogan is no more or less than a despot. He replaces newspaper editorials with party press rooms. Just this week, he said that journalists should be treated like terrorists. I wonder, Minister, who wants 80 million Turks to be able to travel across Europe on an early visa-free basis? It will trigger a new mass migration wave. I have rightly heard Mr Francken concerned about the start of an influx of Kurdish refugees. He does agree fully with the principle with the government. Frontex has been warning for years, Minister, that there are increasing numbers of illegal aliens coming from visa-free countries. I only have one question for you. Will you oppose this deal, whose remedy will be worse than the ailment and create new problems? Will this government veto the deal with Turkey or should we count on the other Member States to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u48	Mr President, Mr De Vriendt, last week there was a discussion with the Prime Minister in preparation for the European Summit. Since then, there have been no new elements. You can always say that there was no preparation, but that was the case last week. Many questions were asked to the Prime Minister, to which he gave many answers. A summit is taking place today, but not just about Turkey; first, a European vision must be discussed and questions answered like: what should we do for better control of the external borders of the European Union, with a real corps at European level? What can we do to improve the functioning of hotspots inside and outside the European Union? Is it possible to help several European countries, such as Greece? Finally, we must also think about a real distribution of refugees across European territory, as in Belgium, among all the municipalities. These are the first items on the agenda that concern the European Union itself. I now turn specifically to Turkey. Mr Van der Maelen, a few days ago I was in Turkey with my colleagues from the Interior, Justice and Asylum and Migration. We have had discussions with several Turkish colleagues about the evolution in Turkey. It is clear that Turkey is becoming more and more an authoritarian regime. I have been in contact with some defenders of human rights and with a lawyer of two journalists who spent three months in prison. We have said that such an evolution cannot be achieved, as with the Zaman newspaper, for example. It is clear that we need to do more to bring about a positive development in Turkey, for example in terms of women's rights, but also in terms of many other situations in that country. We have told our Turkish colleague that clearly and clearly. With regard to a possible agreement between the European Union and Turkey, perhaps we should think first of all about the refugees themselves. Is it necessary to ask so many refugees to come to Greece, with all the risks involved, for example, to fall into the hands of smugglers? Is it useful to ask them to take so many risks at sea? I don't think so. We also need to find a solution with Turkey to select the real refugees as soon as possible, who can get a statute in Europe, and the others, who cannot come to Europe. Belgium first wants a real discussion about the legality of all possible agreements with Turkey. We must be sure that all international rules are fully respected. There are a number of conventions and rules and we ask the European Commission to clarify them. It is only possible to do something by correct application of international rules. As far as aid to Turkey is concerned, the following. We will not give money to the Turkish Government, but we will support concrete projects to help refugees in the areas of housing, hospitals and schools. So we will not give money directly to the Turkish Government. There are other questions from Turkey. I confirm that there is no liberalisation of visas without proper and comprehensive application of the 72 criteria. The guarantees are there. We are awaiting a number of new laws in Turkey, but all the criteria must be correctly applied before a decision is taken on visa liberalisation. As far as the accession process is concerned, there is no question of Turkey joining the European Union. As far as we are concerned, there is an opening of chapters 23 and 24 to have a real dialogue with Turkey on human rights, justice and freedom of the press. We will try to reach an agreement, with a number of clear conditions on the part of the Belgian Government. Finally, Mr De Vriendt asked whether it was possible to continue with a smaller group. We started with that. We have tried in Rome with the six founding countries of the European Union. I will hold another meeting in Brussels and we will try to move forward towards greater integration in different areas. It may not work with all European countries, but it is a start to a new process. Mr President, I repeat the three points. Firstly, Belgium will ask for an agreement with Turkey, with full respect for all international rules and laws. Secondly, we will not give direct money to Turkey, but we will contribute to concrete projects to support the refugees. Thirdly, we will try to reach an agreement without derogating from the normal process of visa liberalisation, for example. The summit is now starting and I suspect that there will be an answer tomorrow on whether or not to conclude an agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answers. We are indeed facing difficult hours, because many countries will still raise objections. However, your answers to our questions do reassure us. You say all the rules must be respected. Aid must go to the refugees, not to sultan Erdogan, and visa liberalisation must not be allowed without compliance with all the rules. I wish you and our Prime Minister every success at the summit and I hope you will come home with a good result.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u50	Mr. Secretary, I take note of your commitment. For the treatment of refugees, return and residence in Turkey, we are guaranteed that Belgium will urge the European Union to do so with respect for international law. I have not been given an answer to my question as to whether there are guarantees for refugees in the border region with Turkey on Syrian territory and whether they can cross the border in case of emergency. I note that you do not give any guarantees. Finally, I asked a question about human rights and freedom of the press. Convenient as you are, imagine it as if we are proposing it ourselves. According to my information, it's the Turks. We have to dare to violate human rights just before a European summit. Two days before the summit, a critical newspaper was seized. It is therefore a bold idea to propose to the European Union itself that discussions on two chapters be started, namely the rule of law and freedom of the press. Mr Minister, for our group, there can be no question of starting a negotiation process and so these dossiers should not be opened. First of all, we want Turkey to prove that a start of discussion has some chance. The way in which that country behaves now puts it farther away from European membership than ever before.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u51	Mr Minister, the question is really very simple: will there be an agreement, a system, where we need Turkey? You've already lifted a tip of the veil yourself. You have spoken about freedom of the press, women's rights, visa policy, international law. You have said that we must find a solution that respects international law. The question you are not answering clearly is whether the pre-agreement, the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, respects international law in all its aspects or not. If the answer to that question is no, you must join the protests of countries such as Spain and Cyprus. Then you must clearly say that it is not possible for war refugees, men, women, children, on the run from the worst possible war violence, to be sent back to that country, in full awareness that they have no future there and no prospects whatsoever. They have no right to asylum. We shouldn't let everyone in here. We cannot let economic refugees in. But political refugees and war refugees are entitled to asylum. That is what the Geneva Convention says. If that is not possible in Turkey, it must be done here, in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u52	Minister, last week, Turkey's new progress report was discussed annually in the European Parliament. It was the first report ever to be so spectacularly critical for Turkey. It contained a long list of all kinds of abuses, some of which you have just mentioned. It was, as it were, a backup report. The only correct conclusion is not drawn in that report, nor do you. You reject Turkey's accession to the European Union. In the meantime, however, you are starting new chapters in the accession negotiations. You will be laughed at by Erdogan, who chooses the chapter on freedom of the press himself. Minister, Turkey is blackmailing the European Union's money. Apparently, you're in the cow business. I expected you to act more decisively. The deal won't solve anything. On the contrary, it will create new problems. I hope it doesn't come to an agreement. We will have to count on the other Member States to do so. If it does come to an agreement and you are in the picture tomorrow, together with the Heads of Government and the Turkish Prime Minister, remember that you are rolling out the red carpet for 80 million Turkish migrants.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u53	Mr Minister, a new fraud, paternity fraud, not only is emerging, but it has been gaining momentum in recent years. You are aware that the government agreement already provided for legislation in this area. But you're not doing anything! This does not seem to be a priority for you, as it will impact the state's finances for a long time. Moreover, it creates a sense of impunity and develops a form of organized crime of the same kind as that of grey or white marriages, for which spouses and spouses are compensated very widely against a false promise of fidelity. This week, the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration introduced a bill that seeks to reform several parts of the law on access to the territory, in particular to have an approach to family reunification. Nor is there any plan to stem this growing phenomenon called "paper babies". Mr. Minister, are you going to procrastinate? In the meantime, the 19 civil servants of the Brussels-Capital Region complain of a legal vacuum. Of course, ideologically for you, it is difficult to curb the creation of a family unit, but let us not be so naive! It is not in any way in the head of the protagonists to want to create a family. It is simply a matter of making a financial profit for one and administrative security for the other. We are not in a situation where family well-being prevails, let alone the well-being of the child. It is no longer conceived in love, but in order to obtain a residence permit. We could extrapolate and imagine what the motivation for this child's education will be afterwards! This is all the more urgent because, even if fraud is detected by an authority given its flagrant character, that authority is powerless to take legal action. Minister, my question is simple. When do you intend to fill this legal gap and agree with your colleague, the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am fully aware of the seriousness of this problem. I also stressed this in my November 2015 political note. In the meantime, concrete measures have been prepared together with the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, Mr. Theo Francken, who respond to the concerns of the 19 officers of the Civil State who sent me the letter you mentioned in your question. I quote a few measures: the introduction of the possibility for a civil-status officer not to include a recognition in an act if there are serious indications of fraudulent recognition; the limitation of the territorially competent official who may receive recognition up to a given circle of persons; the inclusion in the National Register of information concerning fraudulent recognition; the criminalization of fraudulent recognition, etc. In addition, at the beginning of this year a preliminary draft law has already been submitted to the College of Attorneys General, to associations of civil servants, to the Federal Public Service Foreign Affairs and to the Office of Foreigners. I am still waiting for the opinions of the public prosecutors and the Flemish Association of Civil Status Officers. I've already received the other notices. As soon as I have all the opinions, the text can be finalized and submitted to the government so that Parliament can decide on this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u55	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will, of course, continue to follow this file because I do not want it to be out of control.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u56	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, money matters are very rarely discussed, except apparently this week. However, money is a matter of concern to many people. Parents are concerned about what will happen to their inheritance or legacy. Above all, they do not want their children to argue about that. We all know that many young people live together and often buy from living together. What happens, however, if one of the two partners suddenly dies? Will the other partner still be able to live in his own home? Is on top of that sadness he or she is suddenly confronted with, also the concern for money? Are agreements contested? Very often a new partner comes into someone's life and there are stepchildren. The person concerned does not want to harm his own children, but also wants to do something for the stepchildren or for the children he or she has cared for. Minister, very often people want to find solutions. They try to craft it together. However, as we can read today in Time, we have already taken steps. The heirloom is important. Nevertheless, we note that the possibilities are insufficient today. What's to be done now? Minister, we have prepared proposals. We've been talking. It is clear that we are asking for more freedom. We are also asking for the possibility of obtaining inheritance agreements. We ask for clear rules so that gifts afterwards by unclear revaluation rules do not turn out to be poisoned gifts. The question also arises as to whether we should overload the cart or whether we can start quickly and give inheritance agreements greater freedom and legal certainty with those clear points on which there is consensus. Mr President, can we begin discussions on this matter quickly? When can we expect them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u57	Mrs Van Cauter, you know better than I do how much we tried to renew our inheritance right during the previous legislature. As you know, a working party of experts is currently meeting very regularly to review this Napoleon inheritance right, which is standing, except in the case of the surviving spouse. I believe that we are making good progress and do not despair of landing shortly before or after the summer. That renewed inheritance right will have its impact on matrimonial property law. It is now called the right of relationship because many people are no longer married and we must also give them a certain level of protection. The specific question you are asking is, of course, about the heirloom. In the previous legislature it was considered that the heirloom could only follow from a complete rejection of a legacy by a child in favour of the grandchild, i.e. his child. It was said at that time that it was better to wait for a whole reform of inheritance law in order to make the partial leap of succession possible. Now, in practice, most people prefer a partial leap of inheritance over an entire leap of inheritance. We will try, if that is all right with you, to knit that together with an inheritance agreement whereby a child can commit himself to bringing in the donation made by the parent of that child to a grandchild at the time of the death of the grandparent who is his parent. It is a bit complex, but I believe that through a combination of inheritance agreements and a partial succession leap we can achieve a better result. I would prefer to see that happen within the framework of the major reform. Should that happen unexpectedly for a long time, I am always prepared to reconsider my opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u58	Minister, inheritance law has been waiting for so long for more freedom, for effective legal certainty in the law to register the possibility to make agreements. I believe we can still be patient this summer. Hopefully we will achieve a good result in the interests of everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u59	I am honoured because my question will be answered by two excellences, Mr President. That is perhaps necessary, because yesterday we had a discussion in committee on budgetary control and there was some confusion about the size of the budget gap. Minister, they were talking about 3.2 billion and then 1.5 billion. The committee meeting had not ended half an hour ago or we were told that the deficit was only 500 million. Apparently there is a donkey in Duchess or in your cabinet, which reduces the amount each time. I paraphrase Mr Laaouej: if we wait a little longer, it will no longer be a well, but a mountain. The budget deficit will be gone like snow before the sun. We have already heard another figure from another minister. So, Mr and Madam Minister, it is really necessary that you both make a very clear statement about what amount you will be talking about tonight, tomorrow and next weekend. Minister, Minister, there is a very clear report from the Monitoring Committee. That report is being called into question by the government, and the ministers separately. You can't do that. The citizens are right not to believe you anymore. You are constantly reducing the amount, which ultimately means that you transfer the amounts to the following years and possibly to subsequent legislatures. We can't have that at all. The Monitoring Committee has made it very clear what the amount is. So my first question is what amount of money will you be talking about? My second question, Minister, is how will you solve it? We read all kinds of things in the newspapers this morning. There would be savings in health care. The VAT would increase. There may be a new index jump and a number of excise duties would increase. We did not have any assurance earlier that there will be no savings in social security. Is that perhaps the white list of the N-VA or do you have another list, Mrs Wilmès? I would like to make that clear now. Don't come here and tell me there's still talks going on. There are things in the newspapers today that have been cited by you both. Unlike yesterday, I would like a clear answer now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u60	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, I'm glad you're here. Yesterday, you weren't on a commission. Your colleague was there. I would have liked you to be here, because sometimes I have a problem with the Minister of Finance: I have the impression that he had to borrow the machine to calculate from his colleague Mrs Galant, in view of the errors found. In any case, every day, this hole decreases. It went from 3 to 2, 1, 0. Finally, not only did this 3.2 billion hole disappear very quickly, but according to De Tijd, the hole would even be 3.9 billion by adding 0.7 billion asylum to 3.2 billion. We would still like to finally have the clarity on the starting figure, the nominal real hole that is to be filled. What are your leads to fill this hole? I have the impression that it is always the order of magic, with this famous redesign about which we seek to have explanations, in vain. I see that in-house, he thinks that this redesign is nowhere and that it might even cost more than if there were none. Delaying tax refunds is also an issue. All these avenues focus on the population. The aim is to speed up the increase in excise duties. It's about an attack on long-term patients. It's about a second index jump. I don't know if you remember, but in committee, during the budget debates, I saw that a passage from the index-pivot was planned this summer and I asked you why you didn't take it into account and if you were planning a second index jump. You didn't answer that question, or a shoulder lift. Today, I ask you the question: is an index jump planned? For the budget, it would play in both directions. Minister, let me summarize my questions. What is the real hole, without taking away anything, not the one that Europe wants, but the one that is to be filled? What is the position of the European Union, the Commission, on refugees and security? Will there be an index jump? Is the monitoring committee made up of klets? We sometimes have the impression that this is what you say when you question their report. By whom will this effort be borne: by the richest 1% or by the other 99% of the population, the workers, as you are used to doing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u61	Mr President, Madam Budget Minister, the question I asked in committee was for you. You said, a few days ago, that all the options were open, that everything was on the table and that everything was questionable, including the postponement of the budgetary balance beyond 2018. After these statements, you disappeared from the radar screens. You killed yourself in every language. Last week, the Prime Minister responded here in Parliament. Yesterday, in committee, the finance minister came to give us a report on the budget work. Your discretion, your absence is damaging because, if I refer to an interview you gave to the newspaper L'Echo on February 21, 2016, you presented yourself as Mrs Bon Plan. "I am Mrs. Bon Plan," you said by proxy, of course. Mrs Wilmès, if you have a good plan, now is the time to put it on the table! For this reason, we are really happy to find you. In fact, perhaps you will bring a draft solution to your government colleagues. In the same interview, the minister, you were asked about a few figures, not on the budget figures, but on the number of your collaborators in the FPS Budget and in your office. "There are 180," you said, "who do a remarkable job." Personally, I have no doubt about the quality of your collaborators. But "remarkable" is perhaps not the term that will remain in the annals to qualify the 2016 budget, the first that you presented to us on behalf of the government. It is a budget that has been dezingued by the Court of Auditors, by the opposition, by the monitoring committee. Minister, to tell you the truth, I didn't think I was asking you any questions, but it is the Rules that bring back the question tabled in committee. And since everything is optional, maybe I'll ask you my questions in the form of multiple-choice questions. They are in line with those put forward by our colleagues. As far as slippage is concerned, what is the amount of slippage? If it's 3.2 billion euros, type 1. If it's 2.2 billion euros, type 2. If it's 1.3 billion euros, type 3. There are still other possibilities. The second question is about the leads you are working on within the government. If these are the dark cuts in social security, type 1. If this is an increase in VAT, type 2. If it's an index jump, type 3. If you have any other ideas, they are welcome. Finally, I come to the last question which has not been asked but which I believe is important. When will the return to budgetary balance be finally achieved? If it's 2018, type 1. If it's later, type 2. And you can type 3 if the answer is "we'll see."
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u62	Madam and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you for your questions. In particular, I greet Mr Dispa for his humor. I still recall the context of the article to which you refer. It did not concern the State budget at all. I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate my most complete respect for the work done by officials in general and those of the Budget in particular. In order to respond more seriously to the various questions, as I indicated on 8 March when the Monitoring Committee's report was issued, the government undertook a budget adjustment work on the basis of the starting amount of EUR 2.2 billion. The objective remains to achieve structural fiscal balance for all public authorities in 2018, as foreseen in the stability programme 2015-2018. The conclave is an annual, classic and necessary appointment. It makes it possible, on the one hand, to adapt the budget figures to the new macroeconomic forecasts – since you know that the initial budget is drawn up on the basis of the September figures – and, on the other hand, to take stock of the measures decided by the government. If this is a usual exercise, it is not uncommon for it to be considerable. I take as an example the budgetary control of February 2012, which provided for an additional effort of two billion euros. I've heard expressions like "it's never seen." However, when we turn to a recent past, we can only be puzzled. So it's a customary exercise. Nevertheless, and as you know, it is a delicate work that requires time, seriousness and – that's right, Mr.Dispa – a little discretion. Indeed, the real agreements are concluded around the table, and not through the press. In any case, that is how I intend to carry out this task. Like every budget control, ladies and gentlemen, the government begins its work with an in-depth analysis of the monitoring committee's report. It proposes and affixes – as with each conclave – technical corrections that are necessary. And then he seizes the opportunity – and that is also the objective of a budget conclave – to assess the performance of the measures. As far as the costs of the asylum crisis are concerned, we have already been able to draw the attention of the European Commission to the exceptional nature of the current influx of migrants, on which the State has no control. The Commission has already informed us that it intends to take into account expenditure linked to the ex post crisis, i.e. after expenditure, in the assessment of our structural balance. In addition, we have advocated that the costs associated with the fight against terrorism and radicalism should be considered in the same way. We believe that the European Commission will be able to respond positively. The cost of EUR 650 million as a result of the asylum crisis and the fight against terrorism and radicalism amounting to EUR 400 million are indeed high. So I think it is very important to recall that these amounts represent our solidarity and our security. With regard to the various figures currently circulating in the press or the measures that could be taken by the Government during this conclave, it is quite premature to communicate about them. The government is working and you know the saying that "There is no agreement on anything until there is agreement on everything." On the other hand, the outcome of the work we are currently undertaking will first be reflected in the budget adjustment documents. They will be the subject of a vote and, I am sure, many debates between us. What I can confirm at this stage is that our objective remains unchanged. We aim at the long-term consolidation of public finances, the implementation of reforms necessary for the revival of our economy, the only guarantee of a quality social system. As the Prime Minister put it, right here last week, "we are looking for a balance capable of advancing these two objectives together".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u63	Mrs Temmerman, I believe that my colleague Mr Wilmès, the Minister for the Budget, has answered the questions relating to the budget. The government is carrying out budgetary control today and is doing so on the basis of the monitoring committee's figures, as it has become customary in the meantime. You were here yesterday, so you know that I gave a detailed explanation of these figures in the Finance Committee. The Monitoring Committee's figures are further analysed and refined where necessary. Your second question concerned the tax measures. You know that the budget conclave is in progress. A number of possible interventions are discussed. I will, of course, make no preliminaries on these discussions and the nature of these possible measures. I can only conclude at the moment that, despite your insistence, I cannot possibly answer your questions today because they are actually without a subject, since the budget conclave has not yet been concluded.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u64	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I would particularly like to thank Mrs Wilmès, because we finally have the clear figure of EUR 2.2 billion. However, your answer, Minister, is very sad. Minister Peeters was a little bit clearer just now. Minister, at least you did not reassure the people at all. The examples we have listed are all possible. This means that social security will perhaps be saved again, that an index jump will be envisaged, that health costs will be considered, and that a new invoice will be sent to the ordinary families of this country. We do not think at all that those who have so far been able to get the great fraudsters to contribute to the great capabilities. The ordinary people will have to pay again. You have now almost confirmed the latter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u65	Mr President, Madam Minister, I take note of the fact that EUR 650 million comes in addition to the real budget hole, the hole to be closed. There is no question here of the hole that Europe wants to see or that you want to see. The budget gap therefore amounts to EUR 3.9 billion. Indeed, you did not deny the number quoted in De Tijd. Furthermore, like the Minister of Finance, you say that you work behind closed doors avoiding any exit into the press. Let me tell you, Madam Minister, that there are indeed exits in the press from the parties of your majority. If you read the press, you could have seen it. In particular, it states that long-term patients must be addressed. Once again, this government is considering attacking the weakest. It is not yet official, but it will become official, perhaps when the conclave is finished. Ask yourself why there are more and more long-term patients! Would lazy workers all of a sudden be considered long-term sick? As far as I'm concerned, I can give you a few things to find money. For example, there are 942 million euros in excess profit rules. According to the European Union, Belgium must recover this amount, but this government is so friendly with multinationals that it obviously does not want to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u66	Mr President, we have found the Minister of Budget, like herself, elegant and adorned with some discretion, whom she herself has claimed: this is good news. The bad news is that the minister announced a good plan and that, until proven otherwise, it is rather a good crash!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u67	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u68	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Pirlot. He refers to his written report. Mr Ducarme, who had been on the list of speakers, apologized for being retained in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u69	Mr President, I would like to speak briefly on behalf of our group. Our group supports this draft law, in the sense that it is a first step which makes it possible to do telework also within Defence. We absolutely agree with the objectives of the plan to enable work to be done at a distance. The aim of the draft law is to bring work and private life closer together. A staff member who works in the usual office of Defence shall be subject to a certain working time regime within which he is deemed to carry out the work requested. In telework, it is rather the intention to work on a project basis. Certain tasks must be completed at a certain time. The distance worker will then be given the freedom to carry out his task within a wider time frame than traditional office hours. For example, it should be possible for a teleworker to take his or her children to school and bring them back. In our view, this design is just a start. In the future, this will be evaluated, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, it may need to be expanded to meet the new needs that require an efficient and sustainable operation of Defence and its staff. Of course, the principle of teleworking works through a bond of trust. However, an evaluation of this can only lead to improvements. We ask that, in a future evaluation, we also evaluate the allowances provided for. The draft law provides for Article 12, firstly, only a flat-rate fee of 62 euro cents per day for the internet connection of the teleworker. In the event of an evaluation and possible extension to satellite workplaces, consideration should be given to the possibility of granting a fee for heating and/or electricity costs as is the case in the private sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u70	Mr President, it was planned that I would refer to my written report, which is very well done. This bill was adopted unanimously by the Defence Committee on 2 March. Having said that, I will take the floor briefly on behalf of the PS Group. The purpose of the bill before us is to introduce distance work within the Department of Defence for military personnel. If we support this project, it is simply because we can subscribe to the objectives of such a project. This is a means of modernising the organization of work within this department, by providing an additional opportunity for Defence military personnel to better reconcile work and private life with greater autonomy in the performance of their duties. However, since we are talking about the army, it is of course a matter of realizing that such a project cannot be applied to all the tasks of the military and also involves accompanying it with the necessary material and security measures. It seems that this project has been well discussed in a more comprehensive approach with the trade unions and echoes the comments of the Council of State, which we can welcome. Our group also reiterates its wish that the Minister should ensure that such a project does not become a potentially vexatious measure, since it will be a discretionary power of the head of the body and double standards can therefore be made in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your support for this draft law, which I believe is indeed a step forward in the flexibilisation of work in the defence sector. I have indeed committed myself to carrying out an evaluation during the discussion in committee, but I will not do so today, Mr Top. In response to your comment, Mr. Pirlot, I would point out that the bill aligns as much as possible with respect to public servants. That's what it's about. So I'm not doing an evaluation today, I'll let this go into effect. It is true that there is a need for a relationship of trust between the manager and the person concerned, but that band can only grow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u72	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u73	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1639/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1639/3) The draft law contains 17 articles. The bill has 17 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u74	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u75	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Ms Kattrin Jadin, referred to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u76	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1653/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1653/3) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u77	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u78	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Ms Katja Gabriels, rapporteur, referred to: to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u79	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1669/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1669/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u80	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u81	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Johan Klaps, Daphné Dumery, Benoît Friart, Rita Gantois, Werner Janssen, Bert Wollants.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u82	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mrs Vanheste and Mr Vande Lanotte and refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the amendment of the Law of 10 November 2006 on opening hours in commerce, crafts and services in relation to the limitation of opening hours in seaside resorts and tourist centres, many cities and municipalities will benefit. The bathing cities and tourist centres are even a party to the legislative amendment. Mayors of the cities and municipalities concerned, regardless of their political colour, can only see that there is a problem with the current legislation and that it needs to be amended. Today, opening hours apply in ordinary cities and municipalities. This means, in concrete terms, that all shops are not allowed to open their doors until 5 o'clock in the morning and have to close them again at 20 o'clock and on Friday at 21 o'clock. There are, of course, a few exceptions to that rule, such as petrol stations and newspaper shops. The biggest exception, however, is for the so-called bathing cities, places on our Flemish coast, and tourist centres. The latter term refers to municipalities or cities which are wholly or partly recognised as "Tourist Zone'. In order to obtain the latter status, an application must be submitted and different tourist requirements must be met. A city or municipality in Flanders that meets this requirement receives a positive and binding advice from the Flemish government. The Minister responsible for the self-employed and SMEs will then recognise that city, municipality or parts of it as a tourist area. Recognition has important consequences. As I have just mentioned, there is an exception to the opening hours law for these cities and municipalities. There are no opening hours there today. In theory, traders can therefore keep their shops open 24 hours a day and seven days a day, which, of course, is very rare in practice. Traders thus have a great deal of flexibility. The big advantage is that both on the dike on the North Sea and in the historic centre of Antwerp, for example, or in a busy village in the Ardennes merchants can keep their shops open for longer than usual and better match them to their customers. Tourists like to walk around in the evening and still like to buy a souvenir or other things. Traders see their sales increase. The experience of the municipality or the city is improving. That is, of course, a win-win situation. You may now be wondering why we wanted to amend that law. Colleagues, one of the few disadvantages of the law has a major impact on the towns and municipalities concerned. Municipal regulations can be bypassed. In addition, the local authorities are best placed to determine what is important in their city. That is why it is important for cities and municipalities to be able to direct their economies themselves. Let me just outline the problem. In many cities and municipalities, night shops have to apply for a licence. This is necessary in order to combat the proliferation of these shops. Don't get me wrong at all: night shops have a very relevant social function, in the sense that they give citizens more freedom to buy certain items after the conventional opening hours. I think most of our fellow Members are late at home on a standard day of work to go shopping during the usual hours. However, since these shops are open at night, they can also cause nuisance. Therefore, it is important that a municipality can send through a permit policy where there are and how many night shops are allowed. There is a problem in the bathing towns and tourist centres today. There are no opening hours there. A regular shop may be open there at night, so not only the night shops. When the operators remove the sign "Night Shop', the business and ordinary shop becomes open and can still stay open at night, while they no longer have to comply with the licence requirement. The possibility of reducing the number of night shops and avoiding the nuisance is therefore excluded for those municipalities. This creates a true wave of hidden night shops, resulting in more nuisance. For the sake of fairness, we must also admit that a one-sided offer of shops does not contribute to a pleasant experience of the city for tourists. The proposed win-win situation for traders and consumers is therefore under great pressure. In addition, discrimination is created in this way. The night shop outside a tourist area must apply for a permit, comply with the rules of the game and also pay fees. A night shop in a tourist zone doesn't have to. In this way, night shops are withdrawn from the non-tourist edge and a concentration is created in the tourist area, which adds to the problem. The new law now before us will eliminate discrimination and restore a level playing field for all night shops. With the proposed change, we are closing the loopholes and the bathing cities and tourist centres are finally given the power to steer their own economy. They are and remain best placed to determine what is good for the city, its inhabitants and its visitors. The new text gives bathing towns and tourist centres the power to restrict the hours of opening which are not yet available, according to their own needs. It is therefore only up to the municipalities and cities concerned to decide when shops should be open and when to close. Of course, it is important to note that restrictions should not go beyond the mandatory closing hours outside the tourist areas. Shops must be open between 5:00 and 20:00. All applicable exceptions for, for example, nightly releases of a book or film will of course continue to apply. You don't have to worry about that. That change is possible, but it is not an obligation. It is up to each municipality itself to make that assessment. Where necessary, we can now control the proliferation and ensure that discrimination between shops within and outside the tourist area disappears. Another major advantage of the new legislation is that the municipalities themselves will be able to sanction hard- learners. If a municipality chooses to limit opening hours, traders must comply with them. The proposed text gives the municipalities themselves the opportunity to impose sanctions under the GAS Act in the event of infringements. This may be from a fine in the case of a first infringement to even closure, in extreme cases in the case of repeated infringements. Again, it is the municipality, which is best placed here to determine what punishments are needed. The amendment closed a gap in existing legislation, which allowed municipal regulations to be undermined. In addition, existing discrimination between night shops within and outside the tourist area is addressed. Bath cities and tourist cities are now finally given what they deserve, namely the opportunity to steer the local economy towards the city's image of achieving the best possible harmony. Opening hours can be imposed and the sanctioning powers also belong to them. Many mayors and ship colleges of all political orientations have been confronted for years with an undesirable situation which they themselves could not do anything about. With this amendment of law, we offer them a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u84	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, our Committee on the Economy has devoted a great deal of time to studying the issue of opening hours in shops. As a first step, hearings were held at the initiative of the Open Vld Group with its bill to extend the opening hours, a proposal which, in the end, received little support from the members of the committee (majority and opposition): one vote in favour, no one having been convinced of the merits of the arguments put forward by the authors! So we can't buy a smartphone in Belgium on a Sunday at 4 a.m. as in New York! Oh, my God! In a second stage, six other legislative proposals were discussed at the beginning of the bill initiated by the N-VA group to limit opening hours in seaside resorts and tourist centres. The least we can say is that a certain cacophony or cacophony has ruled in the majority around these various bills, with Minister Borsus announcing a bill that has never finally arrived. Anyway, all this work gave birth to a mouse. It's kind of a missed opportunity. Indeed, the other opposition bills contained concrete elements. We could have done a quality parliamentary work (majority and opposition), because the objectives and the findings were not the subject of any divergence of views. Perhaps there was some on how to do it. We could have worked together to review, amend and correct the 2006 basic law on business hours. This is not the way that was chosen by the majority who refused to discuss the opposition's bills. I can only regret it. We had prepared a discussion paper on each other's proposals to discuss how to address a series of problems. We were seeking consensus. This one didn't succeed. I repeat, this is a missed opportunity. A missed opportunity, Mr Klaps! Unfortunately! This work of synthesis and consensus-building was swept away by a turn of the hand and, finally, only the N-VA proposal was examined. On the subject before us, the problem was raised by the first author, Mr Klaps. Beach resorts and tourist areas benefit from an exception for opening hours. Night shops which are subject to communal authorisation quickly understood the advantage which they could derive from this specificity, so that they could also open 24 hours a day and no longer fall within the scope of Article 18, which requires inter alia a communal authorisation. They quickly abandoned the term "night shop" and this trick allows them to empty from their substance the communal policies aimed at limiting and regulating the presence of night shops by subjecting them to communal authorization. Mr Klaps, we fully agreed to make this statement together. Is this problem specific to the Belgian coast or tourist centres? No. There may be particular problems here, but I believe that all of our cities and municipalities are facing this type of problem. In many municipalities, whether touristic or not, night shops have benefited from a perverse effect of this law of 10 November 2006 by engulfing in the breach opened by the exceptions listed in its article 16, § 2. These night shops have thus been transformed into tobacco shops or video clubs, thus avoiding the imposition of weekly hours of opening and rest, but also, or even more importantly, beyond the prior authorisation of exploitation issued by the municipal college as well as possible closure orders in case of infringement of the communal regulation. At this small game, one must see that the imagination is very great to bypass the regulation. The Socialist Group, on the initiative of my colleague Paul-Olivier Delannois, has tabled two proposals for legislation in order to solve this problem throughout the country, not on certain parts of the country. The purpose of these bills is to require businesses that open at night to obtain prior authorization to operate. We wanted to give the municipalities the necessary tools to prevent possible nuisances and thus avoid the installation of night shops in clearly inappropriate places. The N-VA group did not find this solution interesting and preferred to persevere in its error – Mr Klaps, I tell you. In any case, I give my analysis of this file. It proposed that coastal and tourist municipalities be able to impose hours of closure on traditional shops and not benefiting from the derogations referred to in Article 16. I reread this excerpt because the words it contains are very important: "not benefiting from the derogations referred to in Article 16 of the 2006 Act". These basic terms alone signify the ineffectiveness of the bill that the majority is about to vote. Worse still, unequal treatment of sanctions has been introduced between commercial units located in tourist areas and the others, the former under the Act on communal administrative sanctions, while the latter will continue to fall under the 2006 Act. In my view, this contravenes a constitutional prohibition of discrimination – a fact that has been clearly pinned by legal services. Still, the authors preferred to ignore this aspect of the file. We can already write the scenario as follows. In a few months, night shops will be engulfed in the derogations provided for in Article 16, § 2. The Belgian coast, Vlaamse Kust, and other tourist centres will see tobacco shops and video clubs flourishing, which will be able to continue, as if nothing had happened, to open 24 hours a day as they see fit. Perhaps the proposed solution will be useful for a few months, but it will not be sustainable. We will therefore evaluate this law in a few months, in six months or a year. Let us come here to see the failure of the bill before us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u85	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law which was initiated by Mr Klaps and for which consensus was quickly reached in the majority, contrary to what Mr Delizée has said, is part of a desire to grant greater autonomy to the local authorities of tourist areas, including seaside resorts. As a reminder, because of their specific nature, these territories benefit from a system derogating from the ordinary law provided for by the Act of 10 November 2006 in respect of opening hours and weekly closing days. Traditional shops in these territories can remain open 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. While this exception represents a definite interest for traders and consumers, it must be noted that in recent years tourist areas have been confronted with a phenomenon which may sometimes have certain disadvantages for the inhabitants of these territories. Indeed, as a result of measures taken by some local authorities outside tourist areas to combat the excessive development of night shops, municipalities in tourist areas are now faced with a proliferation of such shops. However, it turns out that a number of night shops, once located in tourist areas, bypass the communal regulations on night shops, including the prior communal authorization attached to them, by pretending to be traditional shops. They thus emptied the 2006 law of its substance by taking advantage of the derogations provided for in the tourist areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u86	Mr. Friart, you're a municipalist. You're not blind, are you? You should know that outside the tourist areas, a series of communes with night-shops are subject to a whole series of nuisances. What are you doing for them? Do you consider this to be not a problem and do you leave the question aside?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u87	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u88	Let me continue. The President has not yet taken the floor from me, and it is always he who presides over this House. Mr Friart, today you give tools to these seaside resorts, to these tourist centres. In fact, you did not take a second to measure the needs of the other municipalities that are exactly the same. Indeed, the problem of nuisances, the problem of night-shops are encountered in the same way. It would therefore be important for municipalities, regardless of the area in which they are located, to be able to have real tools to put an end to these totally unacceptable nuisances for a large number of citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u89	It is obvious that the mayors can intervene since it is they who determine the opening hours of night-shops in their commune. It is the law that provides for it. Nevertheless, it seems important to us to support this text aimed at amending the 2006 law in order to allow the municipalities recognised as tourist areas to limit opening hours according to their needs. With this text, we ensure that local authorities have the prerogatives to take account of their specificities and to use the tools to respond to the concrete problems they face. Like other establishments, night shops have an economic role in their own right. It is important not to stigmatise all night traders who, like all the self-employed, contribute to the dynamism of our SME fabric, but also sometimes to job creation. Having said that, we are also aware of certain inconveniences caused by the proliferation of this type of business in neighbourhoods that are not necessarily suitable for the development of these establishments. Some municipalities are also sometimes confronted with certain social frauds. The draft law offers the possibility for local authorities to set opening hours in tourist areas. It was important to ensure, however, that they could not go beyond the opening hours for territories outside those areas. To that end, together with other colleagues, we have tabled an amendment to clarify these elements in the bill. We have also ensured that certain types of businesses, already benefiting from the exemption for opening hours outside tourist areas, are not penalized. Finally, the bill provides the local authorities with the power to sanction violations of their communal regulations setting opening hours in accordance with the Act of 24 June 2013 on communal administrative sanctions. During our work in committee, we have made it clear that this new sanctions regime cannot in any way be regarded as in contradiction with the regime provided for in the criminal provisions referred to in article 22 of the Act of 10 November 2006. This ad hoc regime is due to the specific situation faced by municipalities located in tourist areas, since these local authorities must provide for an ad hoc regulation on opening hours in order to derogate from the 2006 law, unlike the other municipalities, whose regime is already governed by that legislation. The Unions of Brussels, Flemish and Walloon Cities and Municipalities welcomed this legislative initiative. It must be said that the local authorities, in the front line in this matter, are actors on the ground, of course, sensitive to the management of this type of problem. It is essential that they have the right tools to respond quickly and effectively to the problems they face on a daily basis. This is why the MR Group will support this text because it provides an appropriate tool for local authorities in tourist areas to deal with new issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, CD&V supports the bill initiated by Mr Klaps because there are a number of problems and abuses that are actually possible and have also been observed in a number of seaside resorts and tourist centres. The problems arise especially at night shops that behave both as day and night shops and are not forced to apply for a certain licence which is necessary in non-tourist zones. That was a problem that was raised and we recognise it. We have tried to find a solution to prevent such problems from happening in the future. We have also tabled a majority amendment to Mr Klaps's legislative proposal to clarify a number of points. We certainly want to clarify that a restriction on the overall freedom of opening hours in those zones and centres can be allowed by the municipal regulations, not through the mayor, by those cities or municipalities, when it concerns all the establishments in that city or municipality and is therefore not addressed to individual commercial matters. We believe it is important that this is a general restriction on that territory and not a restriction on individual commercial matters. We wanted to clarify and add this by means of that majority amendment. We fully agree with the proposal because of that amendment. We believe that this could be a restriction on abuses in those tourist areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have worked very constructively on the proposal in committee. We have also tabled amendments. We also approved the proposal in committee. We shall be voting in favour of this now in plenary. I would ask the majority to take account of what Mr Delizée has also said. I do indeed believe that the institutions covered by Article 16 of the law are likely to still have a number of possibilities, so that people who now escape some control through the gaps will do so through Article 16. We cannot simply abolish Article 16. A number of things must certainly be possible, but it will still be necessary to refine Article 16. These exceptions are still very vague and general, even too general. We need to look at this in the coming months, otherwise we will see a shift relatively quickly and we have solved very little. Many cities will now adapt and try to implement their regulations on night shops. It gets very annoying when we see new escape routes emerging there. My appeal and my question to the majority is to look again at this article. We don't want to throw the kid away with the bathwater. We think this is a step forward. However, this article will make sure that the system is close.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u92	Mr President, as has already been said, several proposals by the majority and the opposition had been tabled concerning the opening of shops in Belgian cities and municipalities. I regret that we have not been able – even if preparatory meetings have been held – to identify more points of convergence to arrive at a more general text. In fact, today we are only voting on Mr Klaps' text. It would have been appropriate to discuss a more far-reaching proposal, drawing on the others that had been drawn up. Three fundamental principles have guided my group in the analysis of the text, because they are dear to my group. The first relates to the development of local trade, the economic activity of small self-employed people in the city centres. The second concerns their quality of life, the balance between family life and work. They must benefit, for example, from sustainable employment. The third concerns the autonomy of municipalities and local authorities. It is important for them to be able to take decisions in the event of nocturnal nuisances and the proliferation of certain undesirable businesses. These principles lead us to a more global reflection. As some colleagues have said, the text is not perfect. Some points can thus lead to relative confusion. Several types of trade could circumvent the rule; we know that is already the case. However, as we want to be constructive, we will support this proposal as it goes in the right direction. Having said that, I am joining the evaluation request. In a year or two, it will be necessary to measure the effect of these provisions in tourist areas and seaside resorts. In any case, we will support this text in a positive spirit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u93	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return for a moment to the inquiry in Mr Friart's speech and to tell him that I admire his candour. I wonder if you, Mr Friart, have examined the overall dimension of the problem for all the municipalities. When you set this dimension with an "appropriate tool" – I use the terms by which you closed your speech – I think the tool is not appropriate today. Let us remember that in this sector, and in particular the night shops sector, we are not in the world of the Bisounours!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u94	Mr de Lamotte, I think there is no question of candour. It may be that you read the text well, read it thoroughly, and understand it well. As far as non-tourism areas are concerned, the text remains as it is. It is also clear that, at the level of tourist areas, it will not be possible to go below what is planned for non-tourist areas. I think the text is very clear. If you read it in depth, I don't think it's a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u95	I have a few fears when you explain it. I don't feel like he's clearer, Mr. Friart. Excuse me, you think we're in the Bisoun Bear country, but that's not the case. In committee, we really tried to do a common job, to get around the table to develop a global solution. We were rejected. I find this a pity, but there was a way to do something more built and responding to all the concerns. I'm going back to my speech. This problem is far from new, as has been mentioned, and in particular the problem of night shops. I would like to tell you that this concern has not been resolved to date. You say that the Unions of cities and municipalities of the different regions agree. However, they also point out that there is currently no solution to this problem in night shops. As I recall, we were confronted with six texts. The group I represent had already tabled two under the previous legislature. The problems encountered by the municipalities are numerous and, in this sector, the nuisances are sometimes multiple. Some municipalities are confronted with disturbances of public order, in view of these night shops: noise, public drunkenness, fights, overflows, etc., disturbances caused by the presence of unregulated shops. In addition, higher levels of incidents involving criminal offences are also noted. Just check it out in the field. Of course, communal regulations can be adopted to regulate night shops on the basis of the maintenance of public order. Security, public tranquillity, you know that! Unfortunately, shops find subterfuges to avoid being subjected to them. Currently, the law allows municipalities to regulate the opening of night shops, internet and telephone cafés. Unfortunately, this possibility of regulation disappears when the store primarily sells certain types of limitedly listed products, such as newspapers, magazines, tobacco products and telephone cards. At the core, this provision was an exception to protect booksellers, which is essential. Indeed, the number of bookstores is decreasing significantly. Today, in order to circumvent communal regulations, many night shops take advantage of this provision. If sales of tobacco and DVDs account for 50% of their turnover, they change their name and status in tobacco sales. They are no longer subject to these communal regulations. In the face of this phenomenon, the municipalities are deprived. Two texts had been tabled on the subject. They were swept away with a back of their hand. We will come back, be sure, in the coming weeks! In addition, there is the problem that this text is trying to solve: the problem of seaside resorts and tourist centres which are not subject to the Act of 10 November 2006 and where certain night shops abandon the term "night stores" in order to be no longer subject to these communal regulations and fall under the generality applicable to shops; thus, the hours of compulsory closure and weekly rest of the 2006 Act are not applicable to them. For our group, it was therefore necessary and even imperative to move forward in a coordinated manner and to carry out a comprehensive revision of the Act of 10 November 2006 on opening hours in trade, craft and services. The municipalities need to be perfectly equipped to deal with this problem. Six texts were on the table concerning this law. By limiting itself to night shops, there were three. We could have worked on this; we did not. Half of the texts addressed this issue. It is a missed opportunity to help municipalities in which some night shops cause neighbourhood disturbances. We could have helped them solve this problem, opened the toolbox, and we don't. It is also a lack of accountability by the government. Minister Borsus had made it clear during the debate on his policy note that he wanted to move forward with a thorough review of the matter and had announced a bill. Meanwhile, we haven't seen anything coming, and it's not a surprise. He had done nothing but take Mrs Laruelle's statements back in the previous government. She said: "It is clear that in order to fight against incivilities, the best placed are the communes and the police areas." It proposed that the municipalities should be given more opportunities for action, as had been done for night shops, particularly with regard to tobacco. So we were delighted to see the majority move forward to address this problem. No, I don't! It is unclear why the minister decided not to introduce a bill and let Parliament work. Good idea! But perhaps we had to give ourselves the opportunity and work in a consensual way, since there was consensus on this issue. Letting parliament move forward on a subject was a good solution. But the majority have only put forward a part of the problem. That is the problem. Beverage outlets, mega-dancings were also among the problems that the bills were trying to solve. Moreover, the divergence of jurisprudence between the Council of State and the Court of Cassation leads to a legal blur which it seemed necessary to remove. When the municipalities adopt a regulation, they cannot know what decision will be taken with regard to the measure and whether the regulation will be broken. We also had a text to deal with this, but unfortunately it was rejected. It is therefore a leak from the government, since the minister did not table his plan, and a lack of ambition from the majority, Mr. Klaps. It was preferable to reject the texts of the opposition and only to see the situation of the seaside resorts and tourist centres. Therefore, the scope of application has been significantly reduced. This was rejected, of course, but by demonstrating very different positions in the majority. The president here will be able to tell us too. I've never experienced that. On some articles, the vote was resumed three, four or even five times to try to find out what everyone wanted. Mr President, you will remember that! Mr Friart, I would like to stress the vote of your party – you were there – which is the great supporter of SMEs and which has not even stood against another text under discussion providing for the extension of opening hours, which would, however, seriously harm SMEs by promoting large-scale distribution. That's what's going on. It should be recalled that this proposal had also been totally rejected by the social partners. All right! There were clearly the texts that could have improved life in our communes and dealt with a large part of the nuisances. But no, we have not worked on it and I can only regret the lack of ambition of the majority. In our view, the text under discussion today is not finalized. It's a miscarriage suit, Mr. Friart. It is true that this law allows the municipalities to regulate the shops of seaside resorts and communes or parts of communes recognised as tourist centres which are not currently covered by the articles providing for time limits. The municipalities will indeed be able to monitor better, since municipal officials and various civil servants will be able to detect offences in particular. However, this text does not solve the problem of businesses using the derogation provided for in Article 16(2) because more than 50% of their turnover results from the sale of tobacco, newspapers, etc. This aspect was discussed again this afternoon. Night shops which therefore wished to derogate from communal regulations by registering as traditional shops will now choose to register as tobacco outlets. The municipality will also be deprived of this status. I would point out that this problem could have been solved with other texts tabled by our group. With regard to sanctions – an issue that has also been discussed today – the choice was to write a provision stating that units of establishments operating in violation of the communal regulation are only punished in accordance with the Act of 24 June 2013 on communal administrative sanctions. "Only." This adverb which occupied us during part of the committee meeting was inserted in order to solve the problem raised by the legislative services of the Chamber which have evidenced that there are legal criminal provisions and that, in this case, it is not possible to impose communal administrative sanctions. We are not convinced that this will solve the problem. Under the SAC Act, illegal treatment remains between establishments that are either located in seaside resorts or tourist centres or in communities recognized as such. The Union of Cities and Municipalities was not mistaken. She stated that it would have been more appropriate to write a final provision specifying the application of sanctions to any regulations made under this Act and not to refer to the SAC Act. We will therefore be faced with a conflict of sanctions. It is for this reason that I do not give much of this bill and that it will have to be reconsidered once it has been implemented. I think this debate is a missed opportunity. We could have gone further and worked constructively. A sloppy job: this is how we consider this proposal, even if it provides a start or an additional tool for tourist municipalities to combat the nuisances of certain businesses. Indeed, providing the municipalities with additional tools is a very good thing. In the majority as in the opposition, everyone agrees on this. However, if this should lead to legal uncertainty, what is the point? We can therefore only hope that the case law will not weaken this provision and that the municipalities will finally be able to act on their territory. I feed on fears. Today is a step, but a step too short because we are not moving forward. It is a renunciation to equip the municipalities with a serious tool. That is a half measure, and that is why we will not support the text proposed to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u96	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u97	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1155/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1155/7) The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u98	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u99	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Muriel Gerkens, Stefaan Van Hecke, Georges Gilkinet, Kristof Calvo, Jean-Marc Nollet, Gilles Vanden Burre. The Committee for Business, Science Policy, Education, the National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Small Business and Agriculture proposes to reject this bill. (688/3) The Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture proposes to reject this bill. (688/3) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. The rapporteur is Mrs Dierick, but I do not see her. I therefore give the floor to the author, Mr Vanden Burre.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to raise your attention at the end of the afternoon, I wanted to start by quoting a figure of 10 000. Ten thousand is the number of bankruptcies that our country experienced in 2015 and unfortunately, this annual figure is of terrible stability. He hasn't moved since 2013. Of these 10,000 corporate bankruptcies, 91% are self-employed, with small enterprises with between 0 and 4 employees. Small structures therefore suffer the most from this real scourge. At the sector level, this is mainly trade, small trade, horeca and construction. By extrapolating a little, what I have allowed myself to do, we reach 20,000 jobs a year that would be lost as a result of these bankruptcies, which would result in 60,000 jobs being lost by the end of the legislature. This figure is an interesting parallel since it corresponds to the number of jobs that you, colleagues in the government, promised to create thanks to the tax shift: 60,000 job creations, that's what you promised. In our view, job creation is good. Avoiding the loss of existing jobs is better.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u101	Mr President, I think the shortcut is a little easy. It is not a bill that can suddenly prevent the destruction of 60,000 jobs. We must not want to compare a government objective with an unrealistic objective of a bill! I'll let you comment on your proposal, and I'll come back to it later, but in any case, that figure of 60,000 jobs has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u102	That's a fact. The number of bankruptcies in Belgium is documented. The average number of employees per bankruptcy structure in Belgium is documented. I'm not the one making it up. For the figure of 60,000, I'm extrapolating a little, but we're not far from reality. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u103	I am not yet here in the presentation of our proposal, but in any case it has the ambition to combat this phenomenon. That's what I wanted to highlight. In addition to this, studies show that in two thirds of cases, solutions can be found for the self-employed to bounce back and return to economic balance through timely, adapted and professional support. That is the objective of our proposal for a rebond allowance. This proposal has a dual objective. On the one hand, to introduce financial aid for the self-employed who is facing economic difficulties and, on the other hand, to provide him with the means to recover through personalized support. In other words, with this proposal, two thirds of bankruptcies could potentially be avoided. Translated into jobs, this would be equivalent to the rescue of about 40,000 jobs by the end of the legislature. For a government whose slogan is "jobs, jobs, jobs", ladies and gentlemen of the majority, it is incomprehensible that you have rejected this proposal in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u104	First of all, I would like to point out that the number of bankruptcies is decreasing. It decreased by 6% between 2014 and 2015. Since the beginning of the year, this phenomenon has only been increasing. It's one thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u105	10,000 a year is 2015. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u106	Your proposal has also been examined in committee. It was rejected. Your proposal may be of good intent, but it should be noted that it is not INASTI's role to regulate and oversee all this. To every structure, his job. Nor does the federal government have any instructions to give to the regional structures that are already in place and that work very well in the three regions to prevent bankruptcies. While this proposal has some interest, it is in any case unrealizable and unrealizable in terms of its structure, in the sense that INASTI and the regional structures put in place have nothing to do with it. It's not their job.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u107	If I understand correctly, you are hiding behind structures and the institutional constitution of this country to reject and potentially reject a bill that goes in a positive direction. That's what I thought you said. I'm still going to answer it. We're not asking INASTI to settle everything. We ask the self-employed in difficulty to be accompanied by existing structures. It's not INASTI! It is the CED in Brussels and Wallonia, the Tussenstap in Flanders. It is therefore not INASTI that has to deal with everything. INASTI is there for a maximum of nine months, as described in the proposal, to support with the equivalent of the income of integration, i.e. 700 euros per month, so that the self-employed does not suddenly become destitute or fall into poverty. This is the role of INASTI! This is actually controlled by clear parameters that are detailed in the text if the person is really in trouble. It is indeed important to avoid abuses. Therefore, let us not hide behind structures so as not to support the proposal in substance! I wish we could have discussed the substance. If you wish another body to do so, it was welcome to table amendments. It's still time to do it! But on the very principle of structure, validated with the actors in the sector, in particular the CED, the role of INASTI is to provide for this transitional period, through the contributions of the self-employed, allowing them to continue to survive and to verify that they are in difficulty. Accompaniment is therefore required.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u108	Once again, it is a very heavy text and a very lengthy procedure. We know how administrations work. The file to be prepared by the self-employed must return to a first administration and go to a second administration. He will return several months later to the self-employed for further information. He'll go back to the administration. It will take a long time. However, an independent in difficulty has no time to waste. Measures and decisions must be taken very quickly. That is why the MR was very pragmatic in this area. I think the one who is best able to help the self-employed in difficulty is the accountant. It's a new accountant he chooses. He is a potential partner who gives him another vision of his business and it is certainly in this way that the self-employed in difficulty will be best helped. He may also visit the commercial court. A concordat is possible. He may be assisted by consular judges. They are, in general, former independents, former traders, former industrialists. They are people who have a very good view of business and who can perfectly, in a short time, and very concretely help the self-employed in difficulty. I am also thinking, of course, of Minister Borsus' gateway law, which gives a second chance to the self-employed in difficulty. Once again, your proposal is interesting, but it is not applicable to INASTI and is not realistic given the time it will take, because the self-employed in difficulty has to solve his problems quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u109	Mr Friart, I will take up some of your arguments. If I understand you correctly, you're bringing a lawsuit of intent to the administration that would be too heavy and lack reactivity. Your statement is based on very few objective figures, but we are not going to fight. You don't believe in public administration; I still believe in it. Maybe that's what makes us different. In my view, in this case, the administration fulfils its role. The CED (Centre for Firms in Difficulties), which is a government-subsidised body, works very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u110	Of course we believe in administration! And we are also in favour of administrative simplification. It's written in our program.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u111	This has nothing to do with the efficiency of the administration, but either. I share your view that accountants and those who supervise the business world must play a role. That is not in contradiction with what we are proposing. One does not prevent the other at all. You're talking about the trade court and the concordat. The purpose of our bill is that before arriving in the commercial court and declaring themselves bankrupt, the independents are accompanied to avoid the deposit of the balance sheet. This text is complementary to the passerelle law, which we have also voted on. This allows self-employed people to earn income after bankruptcy and not to remain in complete poverty. But, again, it happens after bankruptcy. Here, we are proactively trying to prevent bankruptcy. On the substance, I do not hear any real arguments from you and I sincerely regret that you cannot join us on this text. There is no reason why it should be so. Moreover, we support some of your proposals constructively, as we have just done ten minutes ago with regard to businesses. At some point, we have to go beyond politics.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u112	There is one point that has not yet been addressed: funding. All of this will cost money and require the commitment of public servants to process these files. This point should also have been addressed in your bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u113	For us, this is partly financed by public means and partly by contributions paid by the self-employed. This is detailed in the text. Beyond the ideological differences that one can have on many subjects, it would have been interesting if we could find ourselves on this text. All sectors will tell you, there is an alarm bell about the number of bankruptcies in this country. There were 10,736 in 2014 and 9,800 in 2015. I am speaking to colleagues in the majority who have rejected the text in committee, in particular to colleagues in the MR. You want to be the party of entrepreneurs and I don't understand how you can reject a measure that attacks the high number of bankruptcies. I do not understand how you can send the small independents to the station when, too often, you respond present for the big multinationals and the diamond sector. I do not understand and I ask you to reconsider your position and support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u114	Mr President, I do not understand that Mr Vanden Burre did not understand because we have been very clear in our explanations!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u115	There's nothing on the bottom.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u116	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u117	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Marcel Cheron, Stefaan Van Hecke, David Geerts, Karine Lalieux, Isabelle Poncelet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u118	The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1693/4) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1693/4) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Vandenput and I assume he refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u119	Mr President, I will speak from my bench. Of course, we can only support the proposal to entrust the Court of Auditors with the task of carrying out an audit of the RER Fund and an analysis of the considerable delays in this work. The latter is essential for mobility in and around Brussels. If there is a need to effectively investigate any past misconduct, the main priority must be to ensure that the RSP is completed as quickly as possible. Therefore, this audit should not distract us from the ultimate objective, and should not be used as a pretext for the government to avoid taking on its responsibilities. The spectacle that we have unfortunately been given this week, in which the government has said everything and its opposite regarding the four-tracking of lines 161 and 124, is obviously not to reassure us. Nor the fact that Minister Galant did not make the completion of the RSP a top priority in the context of the budgetary adjustment in the coming days. She confirmed it to us yesterday in committee. This obviously leads us to fear a postponement of this project to the Greek calends. That is why we wanted to establish bimonthly monitoring of the progress of work and the evolution of the RER Fund. This monitoring could be carried out jointly by the SNCB RER cell, Infrabel and the Mobility FPS. We also wanted Parliament to be regularly informed by the representatives of this monitoring committee, so that it could play an effective role, a supervisory role. In this way, he could have ensured that the government was indeed sticking to his statements and his clear willingness to quickly finalize the four-track implementation of lines 124 and 161. The majority preferred to give blind confidence to the minister's words and, therefore, rejected the amendment. We are going to reposition it today; it is never known that the majority may have seen its usefulness since then. In any event, the deterioration of mobility in Brussels and outside is such that we cannot imagine for a moment that the government will not do everything possible to finalize the whole of the ER's work as soon as possible. The citizens, as well as the RM mayors of Walloon Brabant, would not include a new postponement, which they would rightly regard as a first-class burial of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the government agreement provides that the implementation of the ER is and remains a priority. The Minister for Mobility has always pointed out that we all have the same interest in this matter, be it the SNCB, Infrabel, the Regions, the federal government and the various mayors concerned. However, it must be remembered that, as soon as the new government was in place in 2014, it soon became apparent that the RER Fund was going to be exhausted around 2019-2020. Without entering into controversy, it is clear that everyone, including previous ministers in charge of mobility, was aware of this. In any event, it is of course necessary to know what really happened. It is also reasonable to ask how these investments have been affected by such delays and budgetary overruns. An audit of the Court of Auditors is therefore important in order to shed light on this particularly complex case. The Court of Auditors' report which will follow will, I very sincerely hope, enable all parliamentarians, both the majority and the opposition, to have a much clearer and correct view of the development of this important project, which, I remind you, has characterized our political life for many years now. A motion for a resolution to instruct the Court of Auditors to investigate the causes which led to the bankruptcy of the RER Fund and the considerable delay in the construction of the site was voted on in committee last week. The Court of Auditors will have to examine the reasons for the budgetary overruns, as well as the initial budget estimates as such, and indeed the different methods of monitoring and monitoring that have been implemented. From that point on, it will be up to the federal government and Parliament to study the results of this audit, but let us first, ladies and gentlemen, let the Court of Auditors do its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u121	Mr President, on behalf of my group, I would like to thank Mr Cheron for his initiative. I note from the press that the Walloon Brabant MR is also very grateful to you, Mr Cheron. I would also like to thank the majority of my fellow Members for the enlightened moment they had on 9 March when they adopted Mr Cheron's text. In the Infrastructure Committee, we got to know a new notion, the constructive majority. That may also be said, because it does not happen every day. However, I noted a moment of weakness in the discussion of Mrs De Coninck's amendment. In the requesting part of the government, it stated that the government should only examine the results of the audit by the Court of Auditors, whereas the Consultation Committee had gone much further before. However, let us be positive. I am pleased that both the majority and the opposition do not want to neglect Parliament's controlling function. As a Member of Parliament, I think that is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u122	Mr President, with my parliamentary experience, I know that if I want to keep the same positive momentum in plenary as in committee, I must be brief. I shall therefore confine myself to two remarks. Firstly, I welcome the vote in committee on the Court of Auditors' request for an audit of the status of the RER Fund. This will enable us to object to the debate and draw a number of conclusions. Of course, everyone will resume their political journey. That's normal. But we will, in any case, have an objective view of the situation. Secondly, I would like to thank all my colleagues who, I hope, will approve this text today. And I would also like to ask you, Mr President, to take your pen, which, I know, can sometimes be acerbic, effective, to write quickly to the President of the Court of Auditors so that we can have the final document of this audit. However, I can only rejoice in this process, which shows that at times this majority can be constructive. We already knew that the opposition was constructive. We've been showing it for months. But here I wanted to salute this constructive majority worthy of Spinoza.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u123	Mr Cheron, I will do my best to make that happen as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u124	Mr President, the PTB will support this proposal. This RER file has been dragging on for many years. I am not going to repeat the history of this, but I will highlight two elements: the aberration of the institutional imbroglio that characterizes our country and a rather recurrent austerity policy. I also remember this controversy with Minister Galant, who spoke of a two-way RER. In fact, it was the MR who spoke with two voices since he contradicted his minister. This proposal seems to me worthy of interest and deserves support. We propose two amendments. The first request to add to the Court of Auditors' mission an examination of the impact of the split between Infrabel and SNCB. The second asks for an analysis of the influence of the 60/40 distribution key between Flanders and Wallonia in order to determine whether it has affected the delay of the RER.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u125	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u126	- 4 years Marco Van Hees cs (1693-5)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u127	- 5 years ago Marco Van Hees cs (1693-5)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u128	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u129	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? No observation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u130	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I note that one of the legislative proposals that we are currently submitting for admissibility, Mr Dewinter et al.'s proposal 1709/001, intends to'reestablish the death penalty'. That is the very title of the proposal. However, I would like to recall that Article 14bis of the Constitution, which we introduced a little more than ten years ago, voted in February 2005 almost unanimously by the members of our assemblies, says that "the death penalty is abolished". In other words, the proposal I have quoted is clearly unconstitutional and totally inconsistent, since it wants to prescribe a penalty that the Constitution prohibits from imposing. I therefore ask, pursuant to Rule 75 of our Rules of Procedure, not to vote on the admissibility of this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you of the decisions of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Delpérée referred to it. We can have a discussion on this, but it is limited to five minutes per group. I notice that Mrs Pas requests the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u132	Mr President, Rule 75 states that a first condition is that the proposal be supported by at least five members.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u133	I can ask you that now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u134	Mr President, I can reassure Mr Delpérée immediately. If he had listened to Mr Dewinter two weeks ago during Question Time, he would know that this does not go against the Constitution. "Death penalty' is merely a symbolic name, and the proposal only introduces life imprisonment. It doesn't go against any regulation. I note that this is a dangerous precedent. This would be the second time during this term of office that a proposal should not be considered. The consideration should have nothing to do with the substantive debate. It happens purely pro forma. As previously a number of people have defended the free word: "One may disagree with everything that is discussed here, but it must be possible to discuss it." I think it is a very dangerous precedent, Mr President, for the second time during this legislature to refuse to hold the debate, in this case on something that is perfectly legal and regulatory.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u135	Mr. Delperée rightly referred to the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the proposal must have been supported by at least five Members. I would therefore ask that five Members support the proposal. I note that the proposal is only supported by two Members. Consequently, it is not considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u136	Mr President, I would like to speak on something else. You know that, for several weeks now, as part of the work of the Committee on the Economy, which our colleague here is chairing, we have been discussing the text concerning the extension of the life of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 plants. You know that we have already passed in this context a first law strongly contested in court. I will not list the many remedies. The government and Minister Marghem, who is absent today but who is represented by his colleague Bacquelaine, remain at the forefront of this extension, despite the fact that there is a real danger. What I want to talk about here is not the danger, which is the substance of the debate, but the fact that we are going to submit amendments and, in this context, to seek the application of the Rules of Procedure. This makes it possible to send these amendments at the request of fifty of our colleagues to the Council of State. Why this approach? Because, once again, the Council of State, which was required to take a position on the text, was unable to do so with knowledge of the matter. Indeed, the famous convention that the government has concluded with Electrabel – I am talking about the Michel-Electrabel government, which is now concluding agreements with private partners – has not been forwarded to the Council of State. That is why, in the amendments we are tabling, we are asking the Council of State to look at the convention and take the time to analyse the formal and informal dimensions of the agreement. I say "we" because my colleagues will do the same as me. Mr President, I will therefore table my amendments and I think that colleagues will do the same in the coming moments. On behalf of the Rules of Procedure, which state that this must be the case when fifty people so request, we want you to send all these amendments to the Council of State. In this way, the draft currently under discussion will be blocked, pending the advice of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u137	Mr President, we agree with the question. Mrs Lalieux and I have also tabled amendments to the draft. We are also asking for the whole of it to be submitted to the Council of State for its opinion, so that we can finally have a serious legal discussion in committee, a discussion which, unfortunately, we have never been able to carry out on the substance and on the basis of a sound opinion so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u138	Mr President, I have sent the texts of our amendments to the legislative services. Indeed, we have tabled four amendments which seek to ask the Council of State to examine in detail and in depth the problems, in particular Articles 7, 8, 9, and 10 of the agreement between the government and Engie society. We are asking for urgency on three of our amendments. The fourth amendment concerns a number of tasks which we would like to entrust to CREG, in the light of the investments to be made, the calculation of these investments and the return on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u139	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, 50 Members must support the question put by several Members. The quickest way to find out is to vote on this. Anyone who supports the question put by my fellow Members will vote in favour. The others vote against or abstain. We simply need to establish whether the number of 50 Members is being reached.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that, in accordance with the proposal of the Conference of Presidents, the proposal by Mr Gilkinet, Mrs Almaci, Mr Nollet... Are you asking to speak in this connection, Mr Bonte, or on another subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u141	Mr President, we are still discussing the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u142	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u143	I would like to draw the House's attention to Bill No. 1711/1, which aims to solve a major problem felt in the field of work, in particular the flow of information from the judicial police and the federal police to the local police. The country is struggling with this, witnessing the wretched situation in Prince. I believe that this proposal must be dealt with very quickly in order to remove the practical problems in the field of police work. Hence my request for urgency with regard to this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u144	No one is asking to speak on this? Then I suggest that we speak out in the usual way, by sitting and standing up with a vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u145	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 March 2016, I also propose the legislative proposal (Mr Georges Gilkinet, Ms Meyrem Almaci, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and Mr Kristof Calvo, Ms Muriel Gerkens, Mr Stefaan Van Hecke and Mr Gilles Vanden Burre, Ms Anne Dedry and Mr Benoit Hellings) amending the law of 25 April 2014 on the statute and supervision of credit institutions, establishing a CO2 stress test for banks and gradually disinvestment of banks in the fossil energy sector, No. 1719/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u146	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 March 2016, I also propose that you take into account the draft law (Mr Georges Gilkinet, Ms Meyrem Almaci, MM. Jean-Marc Nollet and Kristof Calvo, Ms Muriel Gerkens, MM. Stefaan Van Hecke and Gilles Vanden Burre, Ms Anne Dedry and Mr Benoit Hellings) amending the Act of 25 April 2014 relating to the status and control of credit institutions, introducing a CO2 stress test for banks and organising the gradual disinvestment by banks in the fossil energy sector, No. 1719/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u147	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I also propose the legislative proposal (Mrs Catherine Fonck and Mr Georges Dallemagne) to protect minors against passive smoking, No. 1717/1 to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u148	I also propose that you take into consideration the bill (Mrs Catherine Fonck and Mr Georges Dallemagne) to protect minors from passive smoking, No. 1717/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u149	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u150	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Public Health, Environment and Renewal Committee of the Society on March 8, 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Health, the Environment and the Social Renewal of 8 March 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 120/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Muriel Gerkens; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 120/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Muriel Gerkens; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u151	Mr. Chair, these people with dual diagnoses have both intellectual disabilities and mental health problems. Of course, political attention has been paid to them in previous years. A resolution was thus passed in the Senate under the previous legislature. Similarly, the Minister decided to provide this question with an additional budget to meet the needs of these patients. However, I would like to draw the minister's attention to one aspect. I want to talk about the times when these people, who can live in relative autonomy or in their families, have decompensation phases and periods of crisis, so that they need to move as briefly as possible into hospital institutions. This obviously requires equipment and personnel standards. There is one institution in Flanders and another in Wallonia, but not in Brussels. It is essential that, in the budget allocated by the Minister for the care of these patients, a small number of beds should be set up in 2017 to accommodate them safely and where they would remain as long as possible. This must be done in all three regions. The Minister currently allocates provincial budgets. This is interesting for community health networks, but for these hospital facilities, which require a concentration of resources and staff, the three Regions should be covered. It is therefore the purpose of this motion, which is complementary to the policies implemented by the Minister. Of course, I would ask colleagues to support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u152	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u153	Yes 75 Yes No. [[55]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 131 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u154	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1639/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1639/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u155	Mr President, I just want to be sure of the previous vote. Did you say there were only 75 members of the majority? I don't want to do it again. I'm just asking if I heard right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u156	For the previous vote, there were 75 yes, 55 no and 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u157	I therefore note that the majority is not in number. I'm just pointing it out, Mr. President. As far as we are concerned, we will not go out, important texts must be voted on. But I would point out, because it happens too often and it may happen again. [[Brouhahaha]] Do you take this commitment, Mr. Ducrame? I'll take note of that. But I say to you that the majority in plenary sittings is the minimum of respect for parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u158	I would point out that the House unanimously passed Bill No. 1639.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u159	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 126 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1653/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1653/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u160	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1669/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1669/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u161	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 98 Yes No. 30 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1155/9) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1155/9) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u162	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 76 Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 688/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 688/1 is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u163	Vote on Amendment No 4 by Marco Van Hees cs to insert a point 2/1(n). (1693/5) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Marco Van Hees cs to insert a point 2/1(n). (1693-5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[26]] Yes No. 105 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Marco Van Hees cs to insert a point 3/1(n). (1693/5) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Marco Van Hees cs to insert a point 3/1(n). (1693-5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes [[22]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 31 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert a point 8(n). (1693/5) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert a point 8(n). (1693-5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[55]] Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-17-54-plenair-ip102x.u164	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1693/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1693/6) The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 24 March 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday 24 March 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
