ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic466x.u1	Minister, you know that a lot of local and other authorities work in public procurement with the well-known price review formulas. These allow companies to take into account the evolution of effective costs in their billing. Several parameters are, of course, taken into account, such as the evolution of fuel costs, but also of wages through the so-called S value. With the tax shift, the federal government took an important measure to reduce labour costs and increase competitiveness for our companies. Very good, but its effects should also be reflected in the price review indices used by public authorities in their public procurement. A reduction of this may help to strengthen the budgetary situation of all our levels of government and also reduce the cost of a number of ongoing contracts. Here are my next questions to you, Mr. Secretary. Can you provide more information on how the effects of the tax shift are accounted for in the average wage reference indices plus social security contributions and insurance, as used by all governments in their price revision formulas? Can you estimate possible efficiency gains by the government due to the effect of the tax shift on these price revision formulas?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic466x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gabriels, I would like to answer your questions. As far as the reference indices are concerned, I refer you to the FPS Economy, which, in principle, calculates reference indices on the basis of data supplied from various sources on a quarterly basis. For example, it takes into account, firstly, the minimum wages determined by collective agreements in the construction sector; secondly, patronage and social security contributions; thirdly, other wage and insurance charges. The reduction in social security contributions must be reflected and, therefore, the figures provided to the FPS Economy show. As regards social security contributions, these figures come from the RSZ and the Fund for Existence Security Construction. As far as your second question on these estimates is concerned, I do not have any estimates of the potential efficiency gains, as this will depend, inter alia, on the price revision formula and the size of the wage component registered in the public contract. I should also like to point out that price revision clauses with a wage component are normally only included in public works contracts, but not in supply and service contracts. Moreover, if the estimated amount of the works is less than EUR 120 000, it is not required to submit a price review clause. In that reference index, this should become visible at a certain point on the basis of the figures provided. The reality is quite nuanced and complex depending on the public contract. So it's not obvious. I do not have any estimates at the moment in order to make that clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic466x.u3	Is it possible to ask the question again later when you can tell us more about the estimates?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic466x.u4	I can give the order to get the estimates as soon as possible to the extent that it is possible. If you'll be patient and can wait a trimester, I'll see if I can get that information so I can pass it on to you in my turn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic466x.u5	Mr President, Minister, you know that car manufacturer Volkswagen in the United States has settled with the authorities on the fees and fines in the framework of Dieselgate. That deal costs Volkswagen 15.3 billion dollars or 13.3 billion euros. In the United States, about half a million Volkswagen diesel cars are equipped with scavenger software. This would be 11 million diesel cars worldwide, of which 2.4 million in Germany alone. Mr Müller, the Volkswagen summit, warned that a similar arrangement would not be possible for European cars because this would mean the destruction of Volkswagen. At the plenary session of 28 April, the resolution on Dieselgate was almost unanimously adopted. However, there is no clear demand for compensation in that resolution. Together with the colleagues from CdH, Ecolo-Groen and PS, we have tabled an amendment to get that compensation. Mr Geerts also asked in plenary, together with colleagues from PS and Ecolo-Green, to approve this amendment. That amendment called for steps to be taken to ensure that European consumers are reimbursed in the same way as American consumers. This amendment was also voted down by the majority. If we look at Volkswagen, we have to note that the European consumer, under Volkswagen, has less rights than the US. Mr Minister, it is a pity that these amendments were voted down and I therefore have the following questions. How did the government react to the agreement that Volkswagen has concluded with the United States? How will the Belgian Government guarantee that Belgian consumers will also receive proper compensation which, as in the United States, means more than just making the car conform?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic466x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Temmerman, I have always maintained the view that car owners should not be harmed by the recall action following the fraud and that the recall action should not or should not cost anything. If the owners were to suffer damage, the manufacturer would have to compensate them correctly. You know that Test-Achats has meanwhile initiated a group action against Volkswagen, with six thousand Belgians joining in three weeks. In that context, the court will decide on the basis of the facts whether there is effective damage that is not or is not adequately repaired by the recall actions. I do not think it would be right to go through justice through all kinds of statements. However, I do not think it wise that Volkswagen made statements in the press this week in which the company states that in Europe compensation cannot be applied in the same way as in the United States because it would not be financially possible, and because the call in the US is voluntary and therefore there is a need for compensation as incentive to respond to the call. These two reasons for not paying compensation in Europe are, in my view, not only inappropriate but also not wise. According to the official position that I received from Volkswagen this morning through the Belgian importer, if you wish, then I can deliver it immediately. The nature of the recall, whether mandatory or not, does not relate to the award of civil compensation. The reason for the different treatment, according to Volkswagen, lies in the fact that there are approved technical solutions for European cars to make cars fully compliant, and not in the US, because the emission standards are much lower and the technical concepts are different. I would also like to point out that more than 8 500 Belgian cars have already been adapted. Conclusion. As Minister responsible for Consumers, I believe that the owners and/or users of the cars should not bear any costs as a result of the recall action. With regard to the group action brought by Test-Achats, the judge will give a ruling. Volkswagen has stated in the press that what can be done in the US is not possible or necessary in Europe, and I totally disagree with that. That is why we have asked for the official position, which I have just read out to you. That's the text I'm handing over now. It is a text in English, which I received this morning at 8.16 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic466x.u7	That is very recent information, Minister, for which I am grateful. I welcome your answer. It also shows that we cannot accept two types of consumer being reimbursed in a different way. Of course, I am not an auto technician, but it seems strange to me that one car can adapt and the other car can't. It has something to do with emission standards. If I understand correctly, emission standards in the United States are lower. Then it should be easier to adapt them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic466x.u8	They're tighter. The standards are lower.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic466x.u9	They can have less emissions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic466x.u10	Due to the fact that they are lower, technical solutions cannot fully ensure that they conform. That's why they have to pay a fee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic466x.u11	Mr President, I came here quickly because my colleague told me that it was very calm here. He advised me to come here soon, or I might even be late. Minister, this is a follow-up question on a very technical issue. However, it is a very important question for those involved in the sector, namely the related insurance agents. You know that the definition of connected insurance agent continues to pose a problem. As I have not yet seen a solution, unless you can tell me the opposite, I would like to come back to it again. As you know, under the law, a related insurance agent may carry out activities only on behalf of and on behalf of one insurance undertaking or of several, provided that such insurance contracts cannot be considered to be competitive between them. Theory and practice don't always match, even here. In practice, the vast majority of these exclusive insurance agents still have the authorisation of their insurance company to mediate for certain policies or guarantees for third parties. This may be the case for several reasons and it usually happens via the real estate agent, who is a 100% subsidiary of the group. The difference between law and practice creates legal uncertainty and needs to be resolved. At the beginning of March, you told me that the FSMA had confirmed that it would soon present a proposal to resolve this problem. You also said that it is important that we do not wait for the deadline of 23 February 2018 and work proactively for the transposition of the Insurance Mediation Directive. With the recess approaching, I would like to ask you for an update. Have you received the proposal from the FSMA? If not, when can we expect that? Are there any problems in drafting this proposal? If so, what does the proposal mean in concrete terms? Are the practical problems solved with this? Has this proposal been discussed with the sector? What was their reaction, if any? What can we expect from this dossier? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic466x.u12	Mr Klaps, as always, you are very well informed. I doubt I can give you any further information, but I'm going to try anyway. There is a fundamental difference between persons exercising their activity in the capacity of insurance broker and those doing so in the capacity of insurance agent. It is therefore necessary that the proposed adjustments do not affect the coherence between the statutes and ensure that they are clear to the policy holder. This makes the drafting of a regulation very difficult and ensures that there is a very high level of consultation before a final proposal can be assessed by me. For more than a year, the FSMA has been consulting with the sector on the status of insurance agents and the cumulation of activities. I have not yet received a specific proposal, but I can tell you that the FSMA is finalizing a proposal that the approval of................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Work on the transposition of the IDD Directive has thus begun and the proposed amendments will be incorporated into it. The FSMA should provide me with a preliminary draft by the end of this year. I will come back to this, or you will remind me as soon as I have that proposal. There is therefore still some work to be done to extend it to all professional associations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic466x.u13	Minister, I understand that this is not an easy dossier to solve. It is difficult to get everyone in the same position: each professional association naturally defends its members exclusively. That is, of course, their job. For the people in this situation, this has often grown organically, almost always not by their own hands, but through partnerships that have been established as a matter of principle. I therefore believe that it is absolutely essential to avoid them becoming the victims of new definitions and thereby losing a large part of their income. Once again, I would like to take this interest into account when assessing the FSMA proposal, but I will of course be happy to return to the next step.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic466x.u14	Minister, I was questioned about a difficulty with the GS1 organization. This private, Belgian-based trading organization issues bar codes for products from abroad. The problem is that GS1 refuses to grant a Palestinian bar code on the grounds that Palestine is not a recognized State, which poses enormous difficulties for Palestine in exporting its products. Minister, are you aware of this problem? What steps could you take to find a solution that would allow Palestinians to export their products without using a Jordanian or Israeli bar code?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic466x.u15	Mr President, Mrs Grovonius, I know that you are very interested in Palestinian products. I understand that very well. The presence of a bar code on a product is not mandatory. The function of this bar code is not to inform consumers. GS1, which assigns these bar codes, has national antennas spread around the world. Generally, when a producer wishes to market a product and wishes to have a bar code assigned to it, he or she applies to the GS1 antenna of the country in which it is established. But it can also contact any other national branch. The fact that GS1 does not assign a Palestinian bar code is related to the fact that it does not have an antenna on that territory. As it has branches in neighbouring countries, a Palestinian company therefore has the choice to address a nearby country such as Jordan or Egypt. This does not prevent him from marketing his products. This is a matter that falls within GS1's trade policy and not within the competence of the public authority. I hope I have answered your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic466x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answer. As I understand it, GS1 is not a Belgian company. In this context, could a contact not be made? To what extent could a solution be found? Indeed, this is a point that very often comes back in the trade that we can have with both Palestinian producers and the Palestinian authorities and that seems to be a real obstacle to our exports and to our economic development. I understand that this is above all the prerogative of this autonomous commercial body. I was just thinking that perhaps an informal contact could be modeled in this context. If that is not possible, I call him in any case of my wishes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic466x.u17	Mrs Grovonius, I am a reasonable man, and I hope so! Would you like me to send a letter referring to your question to stimulate this private enterprise and to examine the possibility of organizing an antenna in the Palestinian territory? I have no problem with that. I can ask my staff to send a letter and make a copy of it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic466x.u18	Minister, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic466x.u19	Minister, you end the session with a beautiful smile from Mrs Grovonius, who is satisfied and happy. That's very positive! You have given a satisfactory answer. I'll take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic466x.u20	Minister, I must note that we no longer have colleagues present. Mrs Lalieux was selected as Chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure; she was unable to duplicate herself and asked to turn her last two questions (Nos. 12939 and 12940) into written questions. Mr. Dedecker was supposed to be here, but he didn't. His question No 12635 is therefore postponed. For the rest, in the absence of colleagues and in the absence of information from the secretariat, all other issues become irrelevant.
