ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u1	Mr President, perhaps it is not up to the government to ask a question about the organisation of work, but in the context of the questions on 22 March I would suggest that the following procedure be used. Questions from political groups that have members in the committee of inquiry could be dealt with in the committee of inquiry, while questions from groups that do not have members could be dealt with here in the committee of inquiry. It's a guideline. I don't know how to handle that. There are groups on the committee of inquiry which have every opportunity to ask questions. Other groups are not on the committee of inquiry. Of course, in this committee, they will be able to mow away the grass from their fellow Members... I leave it to your wisdom how we will deal with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u2	That is indeed worth asking. We're just having a theoretical problem right now. At the moment, the Committee of Inquiry does not actually exist, it will not be set up until tomorrow. If today I am not talking about tomorrow or afterwards a Member is insisting on being able to ask his question, it is difficult for me to say that he cannot ask them. He can, of course, voluntarily refer the question to the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u3	Mr President, I fully understand Mr Jambon's motives. A solution must be found so that all members can ask questions or question the minister(s). We would then have to consult each political group to see how we could circumscribe that. For example, the members of the major parties could ask their questions in the commission of inquiry while the others would ask their questions in the commission of inquiry. We will have to find a good balance and, in any case, define a working method so as not to return ever again with the same questions. The minister's proposal, which I believe is reasonable in principle, deserves further refinement by discussing with all political groups in order to adopt a method that would favour the democratic expression of small groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u4	We need a method of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u5	That's right. I agree with you on principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u6	For today, I would like to maintain what is on the agenda. Next week, we will have an arrangement of the work on the agenda. Then we can ask all the groups about this and see if a consensus can be found on that. In this way, all parties, not only those present here today, can agree to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u7	Mr President, Minister, Ministerial Circular GPI 74 of 19 July 2013 on the promotion of equal opportunities for men and women in the police services is annexed to the Gender Action Plan. A Gender Task Force has been set up around three areas: support for all women's career paths, reconciliation between work and private life, and gendermainstreaming. One of the many provisions provides that within the police services, commissions (e.g. ethics, selection, etc.) ), management committees, boards, examination boards, working groups are composed of both sexes with the aim of tending towards the presence of at least one third of one or the other, while favouring the criterion of "competence". Minister, are the provisions of IPM 74 being applied in the field? Are there statistics that tend to prove this? How do you ensure that the "competence" criterion is objected to? If it is not, should we not fear a safe haven, in order to circumvent the directives? Has the survey announced in the Gender Action Plan, which aims to identify the causes leading women to participate to a lesser extent in promotions, been conducted?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u8	Mr President, Minister, I have raised my question on International Women's Day and I have examined the police sector. Progress has certainly been made. The local police account for 32% of women and the federal police 25%. The problem is more likely to arise in the higher regions. There are only seven female police chiefs within the 189 police zones. In federal police, only three of the 28 mandates are filled out by a woman. The flow to higher frameworks is therefore dramatically low. Not only does the police as a public service provider have an important role as a model for society, but a more diverse composition of the corps also ensures greater accessibility for citizens. The 2013 Gender Action Plan, to which my colleague referred, created the charter "Equality between women and men, equal opportunities and diversity'. However, it is unclear how many police zones have signed this charter. In order to focus on the flow of women to higher frameworks, according to this charter, one third of the members of the selection committees should be women in job applications or promotions. In practice, however, this is not always the case. Furthermore, the training and career path is not sufficiently adapted to family life. Of course, this applies to men and women. The five-week residential stays within six months for the purpose of obtaining a management license do not always prove to be a viable card for most people with family life and therefore not for women either. In fact, it is difficult to accept that 22% of women police officers are also having difficulties taking parental leave, as was shown by a Womenpol survey. The fact that the equality of men and women in the workplace is still not a matter of course is still evident in a number of concrete matters. In a quarter of cases there are no showers or changing rooms for female police officers. The uniform is also considered uncomfortable and annoying by police women. It's not matched to a woman's body. Sexist behavior, as in other occupational sectors, appears to occur regularly. Will the Minister order a new study on the position of women in the police force? The last study dates back to the 1990s. Will the Minister do something to bring the training process closer to family life through a modern credit or modular system, as we already know from universities? What measures will be taken to better respect the leave system? What will the Minister do to check that the selection committees consist of a third of members of the opposite sex after all? What will the Minister do to make both the uniform and the sanitary infrastructure more female-friendly, especially with regard to changing rooms and toilets? What will the Minister do to promote a more women's culture with the police? Sexist comments still appear to be frequent. Will the Minister promote the equal opportunities charter with the police? Will he provide a structural subsidy for Womenpol to ensure the continuity of their operation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u9	Colleagues, some of your questions are on the same subject, while others are on different issues. My first answer concerns Ms. Ben Hamou's question 1 and Ms. Van Hoof's question 3. Ministerial Circular GPI 74 of 19 July 2013 on the promotion of equal opportunities for men and women in police services includes various measures to be applied within the integrated police force. It is difficult for me to clarify the practical applications, as they depend heavily on the awareness of the police, local and federal authorities. As far as the figures are concerned, I think it is wise for you to ask me a written question. That way, I won't have to read them here. With regard to the federal police, I can confirm that the coordination functionality in an integrated gender approach is provided by the Federal Police Diversity Unit. The Commissioner General and her Directors General have signed the Federal Charter on Diversity and Equal Opportunities. Consideration is being given to the signing of the agreement by all federal police personnel. Within the latter, there is also a directive providing for gender representation in all selection boards, as well as various directives promoting a better reconciliation between private and professional life, in particular in terms of telework and work opportunities in satellite offices. Note DSID 2014/438 of 7 January 2014 entitled "Promotion of equal opportunities between men and women" addressed to all federal police entities transcribes IPF 74 guidelines for the federal police. Thus, the composition of commissions, juries, working groups and committees must respect this notion of representation of at least one third of either sex. When a selection board is set up, the officers send its composition to the personnel department, which verifies its compliance. The Diversity Unit is also always informed of the composition of the commissions and can alert the authority if IPM 74 has not been respected. In practice, this circular is scrupulously respected by the federal police. In summary, the Personnel Department and the Diversity Unit are responsible for this control. Let me turn to your second question, Mrs Ben Hamou. For any function within the police, a function profile is established in which the necessary skills are determined in terms of knowledge, skills and attitude. There is a clear description of the function and profile required in terms of skills, patents and experience. The members of the selection board shall evaluate, by means of the criteria defined, these competences and other elements. In addition, for any function to be filled, this profile is presented to the social partners for their opinion in the basic consultation committee for the local police and in the higher consultation committee of the police services for the federal police, which seems to me to be a guarantee of transparency and objectivity. In the majority of cases, there is no problem in composing commissions in accordance with the 1/3 rule, while giving importance to the notion of competence. For some very specific or high-level positions, however, difficulties may arise, given the limited number of women in these positions who may be released for these commissions. At a certain level, there are fewer functions. If one has to place a third of that level in the committee, sometimes there is no physical possibility of doing so. That is why this flow at a higher level is important. Mrs Ben Hamou, I will now answer your third question and Mrs Van Hoof's first question. Linked to the ministerial circular GPI 74 on diversity and equal opportunities for women and men in the police services, an action plan was drawn up. A study was also carried out under that 2014 Action Plan. The survey was conducted by JUMP in September 2014, with the support of the Institute for Gender Equality and the Equality and Diversity Department of the Federal Police. In doing so, all women of the integrated police were given the opportunity to complete the survey. The survey looked at women's experiences and findings. The results of the study "Woman are with the police: a survey on career development of women in the police department were submitted to the Management Committee of the Federal Police. There has not yet been a consensus for a new survey to identify the causes that lead women to participate to a lesser extent in promotions, following JUMP's survey on women's career development in the police. This item will need to be the subject of a forthcoming meeting of the Gender Task Force. The possibility of carrying out a new study is on the agenda, given that the last one dates back to 2014. Mrs Van Hoof, I answer your second question. On the basis of this study, the police will examine how the professional career, including the leave system, can be better adapted to the personal life of the employees. As far as training is concerned, I intend to align police education with the Copenhagen and Bologna concepts. This means that police education will also be regulated in a modular manner in the future. This not only benefits the private work balance, but it is essential to make police education more modern and quality-oriented. This reform is a long-term project. However, I would like to achieve it within this legislature. The Federal Police Diversity Unit also chairs the working group, Task Force Gender, comprising representatives of local and federal police. This group met for the last time in June 2015 and should be reactivated to assess progress within the integrated police force and update the Gender Action Plan. With regard to your fourth question, Mrs Van Hoof, the study showed that the uniform could be made more feminine and that a proposal had to be made. This was therefore retained as a new objective in the Task Force Gender. The study also revealed that in 75% of cases women have separate and secure sanitary and dressing rooms. So we're not where we're supposed to be yet. All these aspects were submitted to the Management Committee of the Federal Police. I will also ask the Commissioner-General of the Federal Police to raise the issue on the Integrated Police Coordination Committee, where the day-to-day administration of the Local Police Permanent Commission is represented alongside the Federal Police Summit. In this way, I want to make the police summit more aware of this problem. With regard to your fifth question, Mrs Van Hoof, one of the main lines of the new diversity policy of the federal police is a communication strategy with attention and respect for diversity. In addition, the federal police strengthens its training offer for its staff. Within the various training courses, therefore, the basic training and the training of inspector, chief inspector and Commissioner, the legislative framework on diversity and discrimination is discussed in detail. In addition, further training is offered on how to respond to the sexist statements of colleagues. This is part of the standard training programme and is carried out in collaboration with the Interfederal Equal Opportunities Centre Unia. Furthermore, in 2015 a one-off training was organised for the HRM leaders of the judicial police on gender in human resource policy and in the human resource process. In the context of phase 4 of the optimization of federal police, the cell Diversity of federal police developed a digital brochure "Selection conversations and diversity" with a few points of interest for the smooth conduct of the selection interview. The brochure consists of three parts: the various composition of the selection committee, the attitude of the committee and the correct wording of the questions and their content. On the basis of a few examples, the brochure aims to support the members of the selection committees to charge diversity during the selection process. Of course, the document can guide all other selection interviews organised outside the framework of Phase 4. As you can see, there are a lot of support measures to focus on gender issues in the police career. However, I would also like to point out that in the field of culture, the role of managers is essential. They should not only set an example, but also play briefly when sexist and even discriminatory behaviours are made, and they should make them negotiable with their employees. Mrs Van Hoof, as far as your last question is concerned, various actions are under way to promote equal opportunities in the police career. I am working very closely with the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, Mrs Elke Sleurs. At police level, there is also a very close cooperation with the Interfederal Equal Opportunities Centre Unia. I will continue to support this cooperation. The charter "Equality between women and men, equal opportunities and diversity" was signed by the top federal police. They continue to promote and explain this charter during training courses and other information sessions. I would also like to give the same signal to the local police services through the Integrated Police Coordination Committee. For budgetary reasons, my predecessors had to take the decision to stop the federal police subsidy policy for projects carried out by third parties such as non-profit organisations. The current financial context has not improved today. Therefore, I have no choice but to prioritise the necessary capacity needs and the associated operation and investment resources for the police services. Finally, I will continue to monitor the activities of the Womenpol as well as the Task Force Gender for the Integrated Police. From this last working group, several measures are proposed to the police summit and the police authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u10	Minister, thank you for these complete answers. I note that this is a subject that you are following closely and that many things are still under way. I will therefore ask you my questions at a later stage to find out how this dossier is going and I will redraft a written question on the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I do notice that the intentions are good and that there are action plans. Sometimes small interventions are needed to take a big step forward. For example, Mrs De Bolle was only able to become a police officer because the minimum length was reduced in the 1990s, a realization of the then Minister for Equal Opportunities, Miet Smet. That happened on the basis of a study. I'm glad you're doing that new survey, too. I've had conversations with Womenpol. I think it is useful, because of the resentment that exists about the progress of certain measures, that you would also be in contact with them. They are very close to the police women. If complaints are made, it is quite easy to do so within that gremium. I fully understand that structural subsidies are not always possible. They are trying to maintain their workings themselves, but that does not mean that you can always have a conversation with the women of Womenpol who have been following the situation of women within the police for many years. As far as the examination committees are concerned, it is an opportunity to consider whether external persons such as professors can be integrated into the selection committees in order to reach a third female member. Turns out that's a tricky point. Can that be looked at? The fact that this is a job that is difficult to combine with a family also requires some form of research through this survey. Apparently the number of divorces is higher than in other professional sectors, because the job also requires a lot of night work. Are there any elements that can be improved here in order to ensure that policemen can also build a happy family life?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u12	I was just asked by telephone to ensure that the Minister could be present in the hemisphere in good time. For the time being, we still have time for the interplay of Mr Kir.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u13	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, universal periodic review is a unique process. It includes a review of the achievements of all United Nations member States in the field of human rights. It provides each State with the opportunity to present the measures it has taken to improve the human rights situation in its territory and to fulfil its human rights obligations. Through this mechanism, the human rights situation of all United Nations member countries is reviewed every four and a half years. Forty-two States are reviewed annually at three sessions of the universal periodic review of fourteen countries each. These sessions are usually held in January-February, April-May and October-November. The outcome of each review is reflected in a final document listing the recommendations made to the State under review. It will have to implement them before the next review. During the implementation of the universal periodic review to which Belgium was submitted in January 2016, our country was the subject of recommendations issued by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, in particular with regard to the attitude of police officers in their dealings with migrants. Recommendations for actions specific to the various fields of competence which concern them have also been made by organisations active in the field of human rights. Indeed, in the context of the transposition of the Return Directive into Belgian law, the General Inspectorate of the Federal Police and the Local Police (AIG) is competent to exercise control over each forced removal. Despite the recommendation to involve civil society in these controls, which was made by the Committee against Torture, Belgium chose to entrust this task exclusively to the AIG. The financing of the IGA for the implementation of this mission is, inter alia, the responsibility of the European Return Fund, which is not structural. In addition, several members of the Forced Deportation Control Unit are seconded from the Federal Police and are therefore, in principle, intended to join the teams they currently control. Finally, the European Commission considers that the independence of the monitoring body for forced evictions is at risk if control is entrusted to a police section while the same police force is responsible for the implementation of forced evictions. Annually, the IGA must submit a report to the Minister of the Interior on its activities. Once approved by the Minister, this report must be presented to the federal Parliament, i.e. the House of Representatives and the Senate. It is impossible for any actor, apart from the members of the AIG and the Ministers of the Interior and Justice, to be aware of the data relating to the implementation of the competence to monitor forced evictions. To this is added the confidentiality of the monitoring reports and recommendations made. This lack of transparency in a central mechanism for respect for the fundamental rights of foreigners is serious and worrying. Several United Nations bodies have already highlighted the difficulties faced by the persons concerned in filing complaints against the police in the event of inhumane treatment during a forced operation. In particular, they indicate the difficulty of gathering evidence due to the absence of the person concerned during the investigation. Minister, I come to my questions. How many removals were checked until the alien was handed over to the authorities of the receiving country? How many special flights have been checked and to what stage? Are you planning to release the 2014 and 2015 progress reports to Parliament before the end of the year? What financial resources will be made available to the IGA to enable it to carry out its mission? What is the number of complaints registered, and on what grounds, before the P Committee and the AIG against police officers in the context of the return and removal procedure? Mr. Chair, I move a motion of recommendation that includes the proposals that I have made.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u14	Mr President, Mr Kir, the number of checks on forced returns to destination either by commercial flights or by secure flights using military aircraft (special flights) is systematically reflected in the report on the monitoring mission on forced returns, which the Inspectorate General transmits annually to the Minister of the Interior – I am talking to you about the period covering the last two months – as foreseen by the Royal Decree of 19 June 2012. For your numerical questions, I refer you to the two IGA reports for the years 2013 and 2014, which I forwarded to Parliament. If you do not have them, we can provide them to you without problems. Then, as Minister of Security and Home Affairs, I received two annual reports from the AIG. Those relating to the forced returns monitoring missions for 2013 and 2014 were communicated to me by the AIG. I forwarded the 2013 report to the Speaker on December 18, 2014 and the 2014 report to the Speaker on August 31, 2015. The annual report on the monitoring mission on forced returns for 2015 will be communicated to me as Minister of Security and Interior in the coming weeks. I will not hesitate to also transmit this report to the Speaker of Parliament, as I usually do. At the end of 2014, in early 2015, the Inspectorate-General introduced a project to the European Union. The "AMIF" project focuses on the monitoring of forced returns. This project was approved for the period from 1 July 2015 to 31 December 2018 and I signed this application. It was a ministerial decision of 15 October 2015. The Inspectorate General obtained this grant from European funds which covers part of the costs associated with the implementation of the AMIF project: the control of forced returns. The project covers the period from mid-2015 to the end of 2018, as I said. With this grant, a seconded member of the federal police was hired to work full-time on this project. Six permanent members of the Inspectorate General are also required to provide commitment capacity in order to be able to count on the allocation of AMIF. The costs incurred, including the salary of a seconded member, airline tickets to scheduled flights, hotel costs and inconveniences, can be paid by the AMIF project grant. There is no other way to finance the implementation of the contract. The Inspectorate-General does not have the financial resources to implement the controls on forced returns. Without the AMIF grant, the General Inspectorate could only carry out boarding checks and could not meet the obligations resulting from the Royal Decree of June 2012. Finally, the complaints of Committee P and the General Inspectorate inherent in removals are also included in the Annual Report on the Monitoring Mission on Forced Returns of the General Inspectorate. Parliament is in possession of these reports, but I can provide them to you if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u15	Mr. Minister of the Interior, thank you for all these details. The 2013 and 2014 reports have been transmitted. You tell us that the 2015 one will arrive in the next few days. I will consult the documents concerning the complaints and will obviously not hesitate to come back to you to ask for your opinion on these issues. I have one more question. Don't you think there's a ethical problem when you ask the same police services to do the check? It's the same section of the police that checks if the police are working well. It is this ethical problem that many actors have to deal with.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u16	If I answered "yes" to your question, we should stop the AIG. By definition, the police carry out police checks. It does so on this part of the work of the police, but its other inspections also concern the police. The police control the police. This is why Parliament has installed Committee P. If doubts or hesitations arise, Committee P may be asked to go further in the investigation. If we question the neutrality of the AIG, we have to stop it. My experience until proven otherwise is that the AIG is doing an extremely professional and neutral job. I have no criticism of the IGA at this time. This supervisory body, Committee P, is in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u18	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Emir Kir and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr. Emir Kir and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments, asks the government - to carry out an independent evaluation of the mechanism for monitoring forced removals, taking into account the advantages and disadvantages of choosing the IGA; - that the 2015 activity reports of the AIG are submitted to Parliament by the Minister of the Interior before the end of 2016; - to secure the current financing of the IGA in order to enable it to carry out more checks per year, to have own (and not seconded) staff and to carry out proportionally more complete checks; - to give more transparency to the number of complaints lodged – and the action taken – before Committee P and the AIG against police officers in the process of return and removal. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Emir Kir and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr. Emir Kir and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, with responsibility for the Directorate of Buildings, asks the government - carry out an independent evaluation of the monitoring mechanism for forced removals, taking into account the advantages and disadvantages of the choice for the AIG; - that the Minister of the Interior would submit the 2015 AIG activity report to Parliament by the end of 2016; - to secure the current financing of the AIG so that it has the necessary resources to carry out more annual checks, to have its own (non-detached) staff and to carry out comparatively more complete checks; - to clarify the number of complaints lodged with the P Committee and the AIG against police officers in the context of the return and removal process and the follow-up to them. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koen Metsu. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Koen Metsu. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. We still have time to move on. We're not being stopped, so we're moving on at cruising speed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u19	Mr. Chairman, my inquiry was addressed to the Prime Minister because she referred to a series of statements he had made. I regret that he did not intend to come and answer me, but I have no doubt, minister, that you will be able to provide me with answers, since the subject is directly related to your skills. The closure of borders within the Schengen area is a measure that has been mentioned on several occasions by some European officials and by the Belgian government in an attempt, supposedly, to stop the arrival of asylum seekers and even to control the terrorist threat. The re-establishment of internal border controls would, however, have serious consequences, both on the free movement of goods and people, on businesses and on tourism. It was estimated that this measure would cost the transport sector alone some EUR 3 billion. Beyond this significant economic cost, my group considers this to be an unacceptable attack on the Schengen area, which is, as some say, one of the inalienable foundations of the European project. Following the announcement of the dismantling of the Calais camp, the government unilaterally decided to temporarily re-establish border controls with France so that migrants from the Calais camp could not settle in Belgium. This was in any case the original objective. This decision was taken without any consultation with France - the diplomatic incident has been approached - and, above all, was implemented while the European Commission considers that Belgium does not comply with the Schengen agreements by organising, as it does, police checks at the border with France. Under the procedure in force, Belgium should, in its notification to the European Commission, have invoked Article 25 of the Schengen Borders Code, which has not been done, although the reasons put forward required it. At present, Belgium is de facto unable to announce a month of border control in such circumstances. Let us admit that in the head of a founding State, this is a serious question. Above all, this further confirms our country's transition to the ranks of countries which undermine the Treaties and the foundations of the Union, which we deeply regret. So, Minister, how do you explain and justify the unilateral reintroduction of controls at the borders of our country with France, when this decision is contested by both France and the European Commission? What details did you provide to the Commission at the meeting that had been initiated in this context? How long will these border controls be maintained? If I have read an indiscretion in today's press, it seems that these have been prolonged. I would also like clarification on how they have been extended and on the contacts that have been made with France and the European Commission in this regard. On what basis are you going to judge that internal border controls are no longer necessary? Finally, more broadly, what is the government's position on the future of the Schengen area at the internal level and on the strengthening of the external borders of this area, in particular with a policy of solidarity and coordination at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u20	Mr President, many questions have been asked, but my answers will be rather brief because they have already been given on several occasions. I must begin by saying that everything we have done in terms of border controls is within the framework of the Schengen agreements. Every procedure, every letter, every act is within this framework. On 23 February, Belgium introduced, on the basis of Article 25 of the Schengen Border Code, temporary border controls between the province of West Flanders and France. This decision follows the closure and evacuation of several refugee camps in the vicinity of seaports in northern France. It was taken in order to counter the effects of travel to Belgian ports and to avoid the appearance of tent camps in our coastal region. I don't want camps like those in France on our coast and I'm going to do everything I can to avoid it, including border controls. That is the goal and we will use all the means necessary to achieve it. Contacts have indeed taken place on this subject, both with the French authorities and with the European Commission. My services are in constant contact with France and the Commission and our relations are particularly good. Consultations with the United Kingdom are also regular, both politically and operationally. There has been no short-circuiting of any Schengen procedure. Border controls have already been extended three times since then, the last extension took place on 13 April. We intend to maintain controls as long as there are legitimate grounds for doing so. The evaluation is carried out with the local police and the federal police forces on the ground in West Flanders. At present, we are conducting a general assessment of controls and their impact. You talked about the economic effects. I must tell you that yesterday, again, I received congratulations from the economic world in West Flanders and from the tourism sector for the measures taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I hear that the procedures have been followed. In this case, what surprises me is the reaction of France and the European Commission. Indeed, if I am not mistaken, a summons was still sent to Belgium to ask for explanations. If the procedures had actually been followed, I do not think you should have gone to the Commission to justify yourself. In the meantime, the decision has been extended and will be extended as long as you believe there is a risk. Again, what are you relying on for this extension? We can worry about it because I feel like we're going to settle in a certain "normality" and maintain these controls. What I regret about this is that the first solution to this problem has been repressive. That is why I am tabling a motion to insist on the need to combat any infringement of the Schengen area. This is already a first thing. If, as a matter of urgency, these border controls are to be carried out, then the procedure laid down in the Schengen Border Code must be followed. I also want to stress that it is important, in addition to what is being undertaken here, that more comprehensive assistance be provided; I am thinking of the relocation of refugees and sanctions for countries that do not meet their commitments. Where appropriate, measures should be taken in the area of development cooperation. This is important for our country and for Europe. So I am also talking about it in the motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u22	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Stéphane Crusnière and Emir Kir and by Ms Nawal Ben Hamou read as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Stéphane Crusnière and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments, asks the government 1. to combat any infringement of the Schengen area by the various European Member States, including Belgium, since this is one of the inalienable foundations of the European project; 2. Contrary to the unilateral decision taken by this government to re-establish controls at Belgian borders with France, to take such decisions from now on in strict compliance with the Schengen Border Code, in full cooperation with the neighbouring Member States concerned and with the European Commission; 3. in accordance with the Communication from the European Commission to the European Parliament, the European Council and the Council entitled "Return to the spirit of Schengen – Roadmap", to fully adopt specific targeted measures, including: - rapidly adopt the proposal for a Regulation on the establishment of a European Border and Coast Guard Corps, - to help, jointly with the Commission and the EU agencies, Greece to protect its external borders and to receive asylum seekers arriving on its territory with dignity in order to manage the humanitarian crisis in that Member State in a solidarity approach and fully respecting the right of asylum, - putting in place a coordinated approach to temporary controls at internal borders; 4. plead within the Council for the EU to continue the rescue action in the Mediterranean using its own resources and those of the Member States via the European agencies and the CSDP in particular; 5. to plead within the Council in order to speed up the relocation of refugees and to punish the Member States which are holding back the European relocation policy as endorsed by the Council; 6. to amplify Belgian humanitarian action in Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey in refugee camps; 7. plead within the Council in order to create legal channels for asylum and migration enabling them to reach Europe without endangering their lives; 8. to plead within the Council in order to determine a new and true common and solidarity European migration policy." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Stéphane Crusnière and Mr Emir Kir and by Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Stéphane Crusnière and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, with responsibility for the Directorate of Buildings, calls on the Government 1. to combat all violations of the Schengen area by the European Member States and, therefore, Belgium, since this is one of the inalienable foundations of the European project; 2. in contrast to its unilateral decision to re-establish controls at the French-Belgian border, to take such decisions in future with strict compliance with the Schengen Borders Code and in close cooperation with the neighbouring Member States concerned and the European Commission; 3. in accordance with the communication from the European Commission to the European Parliament, the European Council and the Council entitled "Back to Schengen........................................................................................................................................................................................... - the rapid adoption of the proposal for a Regulation establishing a European Border and Coast Guard Corps, - support for the protection of Greece's external borders and the dignified reception of asylum seekers arriving on its territory, together with the Commission and the EU agencies, in order to manage the humanitarian crisis in that Member State through a solidarity approach and in full respect of the right of asylum, - the development of a coordinated approach to temporary controls at internal borders; 4. call on the Council to continue European rescue operations in the Mediterranean Sea, using the Union's and Member States' own resources, including through the European agencies and under the CSDP; 5. call on the Council to speed up the resettlement of refugees and to impose sanctions on those Member States which are slowing down the European resettlement policy, as approved by the Council; 6. extend Belgian humanitarian actions in refugee camps in Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey; 7. call in the Council for the organisation of legal asylum and migration channels so that asylum seekers could reach Europe without risking their lives; 8. to advocate in the Council the development of a new and fully-fledged common and solidarity-based European migration policy." A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koen Metsu. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Koen Metsu. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u23	Mr President, Minister, last December, a member of the Hell's Angels was killed in Haccourt near Liège, in the context of a conflict between rival criminal gangs. This episode tends to confirm fears of a resurgence of violent confrontations between biker gangs in our territory. Obviously, there is no harm in associating with motorbike enthusiasts, or even agreeing to abide by a code of honour, if it is in accordance with civil law. However, there is a problem when associations are involved in criminal activities, or when club members with good intentions are encouraged to choose a camp as part of a growing gang rivalry. You have been questioned several times on this subject. During a visit to Herve's police station last June, you mentioned the risk of these criminal gangs moving to Belgium, after Germany and the Netherlands had adapted their legislation. Minister, can you tell us what the results of your work in this area are? Local authorities may act by order to prohibit certain gatherings that pose a risk to public peace. That is what we did in the province of Liège about ten years ago, which led the gangs to leave it and settle elsewhere, but we have the feeling that they could come back. Unfortunately, local government orders are limited in time and space. More general measures may be needed. Mr Minister, are general measures, possibly based on German or Dutch schemes, in preparation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u24	Mr Demeyer, following the application by the Netherlands and by Germany of a policy of strong restriction on criminal bikers' gangs, the Belgian authorities fear that the problem will be relocated to neighbouring countries. However, we must note that the situation in Belgium has so far remained almost unchanged. A new chapter of the No Surrender Motor Club has indeed been established in Flanders. The majority of its members are Dutch nationals. However, both in terms of the judicial police and in terms of public order, the presence of this chapter has a limited impact. The members of the club are still strongly linked to the Dutch structure. They go to events organized by their brothers across the border. Apart from the feeling of insecurity that their movements can generate among the population, no incidents have been communicated to us by the local administrative authorities. The murder in Haccourt last December does not seem to give rise to a resurgence of confrontations between the two rival bands Outlaws and Hell's Angels. On the contrary, a general call for calm was made within the middle after the facts. General measures to prohibit or limit the gathering of criminal motorcycle gangs are not straightforward. Both administrative and judicial decisions cannot run counter to the freedom to assemble and cannot be discriminatory against other groups of bikers. Germany and the Netherlands have taken many initiatives in this area in recent months, but a number of prohibitions and limitations have been annulled by a higher body for breaches of these rights. We are following things as well as the bills in the Netherlands and Germany. I am preparing a project to strengthen the administrative capacity of local authorities in this type of crime, but this is only at the stage of reflection.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answers. I stand at your disposal to work together to improve the arsenal of local authorities in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u26	Mr President, Minister, in 2015, the police area of Liège dealt with some 11,115 simplified minutes with unknown author. In most cases, these are minutes that will never leave the premises because there is no evidence to guide the investigation. A simple listing is sent to the Crown Prosecutor's Office. These 11,115 minutes, however, represent 11,115 standardized hearings and drafting, most often on the basis of standard documents. For citizens, this also represents 11,115 trips to police premises, sometimes involving a fairly long waiting time. Many of these trips are only intended to satisfy insurance prescriptions. At present, Police-on-web makes it possible to declare computerically five types of offences: vandalism on private property (deterioration or graffiti); theft of bicycles, theft of mopeds; shoplifting. Would it not be appropriate, as we look at the essential tasks, to increase these opportunities in order, on the one hand, to avoid inconvenience to our citizens who wish to do so and, on the other hand, to lighten the work of the police? Thus, for example, in the same area, the loss of clearly identified objects alone represents 1,511 hearings; the theft of an object carried by the victim, without his knowledge, without aggravating circumstances, 1,212 minutes; theft without aggravating circumstances, 2,910 facts. Victims would, of course, retain the choice of making the statement either at the police station or via the Internet. It is important to maintain reception and assistance for victims who wish to be accompanied or informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u27	Mr Demeyer, we are well aware of the needs of citizens and the police in connection with this problem of computer reporting of crimes. As I have already explained, the application currently used can no longer be adapted to the needs. As a result, the federal police are exploring the possibility of using new technology to start a new project that meets the needs of citizens wishing to declare an offence in an ergonomic and non-movement manner in a police office, as part of the i-police project. Ideally, this solution should facilitate the issuance of certificates that citizens will need as a result of their declaration and, in general, facilitate interactions for possible supplementary investigations. The need to simplify the process and save time to improve the capacity of police services will also be taken into account. Secondly, we will study with the judiciary the possibility of extending the list of offences for which an electronic declaration without a presence at the police station is accepted. Finally, the federal police will consult with the local police throughout the development of this project, starting with a concrete needs analysis. I would add that this initiative is an integral part of our great i-police project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u28	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u29	Minister WENRA, the association of European nuclear regulators, officially published the new post-Fukushima seismic standards on 24 September 2014. The Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN), a member of WENRA, announced on 12 September 2014, in a context of government negotiations and the desire to extend by 10 years Doel 1 and Doel 2 that it would set its conditions for such a reopening by making specific reference to the rehabilitation of the action plan on post-Fukushima stress tests. Therefore, it cannot be assumed that the federal government was unaware of all of these new recommendations. While these new safety rules were known and validated by the AFCN, it is unacceptable that no budget was included in the work requested by the AFCN for the upgrade and that the AFCN and the Government did not impose this on the new standards prior to any extension authorization, as safety could not be poached for any reason. In addition, the RTBF has published AFCN working papers which indicated that Doel 1 and 2 plants will be upgraded to standards by 2025 at the latest. It is obviously surreal to envisage that Doel 1 and 2 will not be brought to standards until 2025, the year these two reactors are closed, even though these new standards will come into force in 2017. This is about the credibility of the PSAN and the federal government to ensure that the highest nuclear standards are met as soon as possible. In this context, Minister Marghem said in committee: "The Agency made its terms and conditions known in September 2014 and, on this basis, Electrabel drew up an action plan made public in April 2015, which was validated by the AFCN and formally approved by the Royal Decree of 27 September 2015. It is understood that the operator's obligations in terms of nuclear safety are not limited to a given amount. If, subsequently, the level of safety required to operate the extended reactors were to be further increased, for example in order to meet the new seismic safety standards, the operator would have no choice but to comply with them. It seems to me that the operator has a choice whether or not to comply with it based on economic feasibility. If it does not comply, the AFCN will have to take a binding decision which could lead to the judgment of Doel 1 and 2." In this case, we are not in Article 8 of the Convention which could typically apply in the event of problems of profitability of these plants and therefore of Electrabel's decision to stop these two reactors, but in the context of Article 7.2, where no compensation is due by the operator. Article 8 of the Convention refers to a judgment on the initiative of Electrabel. But if the operator waits for AFCN to force him to stop, there is no longer any problem of compensation either in the Head of Electrabel or in the Head of State. Therefore, the length of the transitional period is important, because if it runs until 2025, it solves the problem for the government and for Electrabel. On the other hand, if it were shortened until 2020, this could undermine the government's energy policy. Therefore, why have these new standards not been directly integrated into Doel 1 and 2's LTO and why is the necessary budget and implementation of this work not included in the overall budget for the extension of Doel 1 and 2? When will the Royal Decree transposing the new Wenra seismic standards come into force? What is the planned date for the actual upgrading of these two reactors? It did not escape you that on 7 April, Doel 1 again suffered an incident, which again raises the question in relation to these nuclear safety issues. The plant is still not open, if I am well informed. Thank you for your answers to my questions and for the interpretation that can be given to the terms of the convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u30	Mr President, this question has been raised on several occasions by various members of this Parliament in the nuclear safety sub-committee. I'm a man who's trying to work effectively. I can claim to have already answered the question, but I can refer the honourable Member back to the answers I have given. I propose not to read out all these answers and refer to the report of the nuclear safety subcommittee. I will transmit my reply in writing to Mr de Lamotte. We have a lot of questions, but taking back in our committee the questions that have been put in the nuclear safety sub-committee is certainly not an effective way of working. If I may, I will now send my replies in writing to Mr de Lamotte by referring to the answers given in the nuclear safety sub-committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u31	Minister, I agree, but in the future, I will ask you to mention the numbers of the issues dealt with in previous committees, as prescribed in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u32	Mr President, thank you. I have felt a disturbance with regard to the Minister's answer, in the sense that there are no questions and answers in the nuclear safety sub-committee. There are file submissions. I agree, minister, and we heard you. However, questions arise as to the reality of the agreement signed by the government with Electrabel, the feasibility of standards, the distance taken over time from the achievement of these standards. I find the procedure somewhat special, especially since some issues are new to the events of the last sub-committee on nuclear safety, and were not tabled at the time. I'm a little disturbed by that answer. I find the process rather curious. Nevertheless, Mr. Chairman, I have a motion. Minister, I asked you questions, you answered me and I have five recommendations to the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u33	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Michel de Lamotte and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Michel de Lamotte and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments, asks the government - to communicate transparently on this issue; - to transmit to the Sub-Committee on Nuclear Safety all the documents relating to this problem of compliance with the new seismic standards issued by WENRA; - to ensure that AFCN immediately adds the work relating to compliance with these new standards to the list of work to be carried out by the operator of Doel 1 and 2; - to ensure that the operator's budget allocated to the Doel 1 and 2 youth project is adjusted to include the cost of seismic upgrading; - to compel the operator to carry out this work in order to comply with the new seismic standards as early as 2017. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Michel de Lamotte and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Michel de Lamotte and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, with responsibility for the Directorate of Buildings, calls on the Government - to communicate fully transparently on this issue; - to deliver all documents relating to compliance with the new seismic standards issued by WENRA to the Nuclear Safety Sub-Committee; - ensure that the FANC immediately adds to the list of works to be carried out by the operator of Objectives 1 and 2, the works to be carried out in order to comply with these new standards; - ensure that the operator adjusts, adapts and incorporates the cost of the works required to comply with the new seismic standards, the budget allocated for the work to extend the life of Objectives 1 and 2; - require the operator to carry out those works in order to comply with the new seismic standards from 2017. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koen Metsu. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Koen Metsu. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u34	Mr President, Minister, the press recently reported that during 2015, about 100 uniforms of police and the army had been stolen by criminals. The flights were reported to have taken place both at the officers'homes and in the police offices. Given the current context of the terrorist threat, these facts are worrying. Such uniforms could indeed be used to commit crimes, by deceiving the vigilance of both citizens and law enforcement. In this respect, it is my responsibility that uniforms have also recently been used by criminals in Courtrai and Uccle to break into old ladies' homes and steal their property. Minister, have you been aware of these facts and can you confirm the extent of them? Is it a widespread phenomenon on a territory-wide basis or is it restricted to specific areas? Have any measures been taken to minimize the number of flights in the future, particularly in police offices? Could you give us the content? Finally, have any new precautionary instructions been sent to the officers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u35	Minister, we have heard that criminals stole a hundred police and army uniforms last year, including in Kortrijk. The thefts took place both at the cops' house and at the police stations. For criminals and terrorists, such uniforms are an excellent opportunity to commit a criminal fact unseen and to disappear into chaos without raising suspicion. It's not the first time we've heard false cops ringing people's bells and being let in by an excuse where they steal valuable jewels or money. I'd like to look not at the past but at the future. I therefore ask you what procedures are being followed for theft of uniforms. What measures have already been taken to limit such thefts as far as possible in the future? Were there any specific interventions for that? What's the financial impact of the thefts on police forces?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u36	Colleagues, I will try to answer these two questions simultaneously. Mr Demon, in the event of loss or theft of sensitive material such as weapons, bulletproof vests, radioisotopes, intervention bracelets, a report of a security incident should be made in addition to the preparation of a report and a possible signal. Moreover, in the case of the loss or theft of police equipment in general, uniform documents should also remain in principle the property of the government, a report of damage should be drawn up for the federal police in any case. This means that an administrative file is compiled with the aim of assessing the civil liability of our staff to see if there has been any negligence in the management or storage of the police equipment or to recover the damage to the Belgian State from the third party in the event of an identified third party being stolen. With regard to personal staffing (individual equipment), the general rule is that each staff member is expected to ensure their own equipment. As far as local police areas are concerned, it is up to the mayor and the president of the police college to take specific measures if they deem it necessary. Nevertheless, the Federal Police Communications Service regularly asks, and this at this time of threat, to have constant attention and vigilance for the individual equipment of the police officer. He also adds that it is the duty of the police officer to report a robbery in this regard. During the period of threat of terrorism, special security and security measures were imposed on police buildings. Firstly, every member of staff is asked to be vigilant and attentive in the preservation of police equipment, both during the operations and interventions as well as at work and at home. If a theft or loss of this material occurs, appropriate attention should be paid to these reports and this information should be transferred immediately. Secondly, I refer to the law of 21 December 2013 laying down various provisions for the Home Affairs Department on protection against the abuse of the police uniform. This law criminalises the carrying and possession or trade in the broad sense of the police uniform or the truthful counterfeiting if this is done by an unauthorized person. The protection depends on the use of the police logo, the striping or the words police, police or polizei. Article 3 criminalises the storage or trade in a broad sense by an unauthorized person. Article 6, § 1, 8° defines the main group which can legally maintain or use this uniform, in particular the members of the operational framework of the integrated police, the General Inspection of the Federal Police and the Local Police and the Permanent Supervisory Committee of the Police. A number of minor exceptions are also provided for. Article 4 also criminalizes the wearing of this uniform by a person who is not entitled. Article 6 (2) determines who is entitled to wear the uniform, in particular the main group described above. Special measures are also provided for in the event of any abuse, such as seizure of uniform documents and confiscation. Moreover, on the basis of the above-mentioned law, a report may be drawn up for any further prosecution by the public prosecutor. A legal basis was also provided for the establishment of a system for the collection and destruction of uniform documents, for example for returning the uniform of pensioners and/or survivors. As regards the treatment of discarded police equipment, I refer to circular GPI51 of 13 September 2006. In addition, each member of staff shall be responsible for the return and/or destruction of the uniform documents. Upon taking up office, each new staff member shall take note of the rule that he is responsible for his equipment. On 13 October 2015, the Integrated Police Coordination Committee decided that no organised take-back or destruction of uniform documents would take place for the time being, apart from the personal responsibility of the staff member, as also mentioned in the reply to parliamentary question No. 2217 by Mr Carcaci. However, a communication plan will be drawn up to make everyone aware of this responsibility. Mr. Calomne, you asked me for statistics. The General National Data Bank (BNG) is a police database where the facts are recorded on the basis of the minutes resulting from the judicial and administrative police missions. It enables counts to be made on different statistical variables, such as the number of recorded facts, modus operandi, objects linked to the infringement, means of transport used, destinations, places, etc. Table 1 of my reply shows the number of incidents recorded in connection with theft, in which military and police equipment, specifically uniforms, were stolen. They were recorded in the BNG on the basis of the minutes for the period 2012-2014 and the first half of 2015. These data are from the Data Bank as of October 23, 2015. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these are military and police uniforms. On the basis of the above definition of BNG, it is not possible, in support of the structured information contained in the minutes, to draw a more precise distinction between military and police uniforms. As seen in crime figures, theft of military and police equipment (clothes or uniforms) is decreasing year by year (284 in 2012, 200 in 2014 and 79 in the first half of 2015). In view of the delays, the figures could not be detailed by police zone or police entity, but it can be seen that the flights take place in the major districts of Antwerp or Brussels-Capital. Mr President, I have a table showing the data for the various boroughs. Table 2 shows, among these flights, the number of flights that took place in a military building or in a police office. This represents roughly a quarter of the total number of events recorded. Most of the events, however, took place in a private dwelling. Mr Demon, you asked a question about the financial impact of these thefts. Unfortunately, I do not have any data on this. For your information, I can tell you that if policemen lose something, this results in the reduction of their personal points system of their personal donation. Unfortunately, I have no idea of the financial impact of these thefts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, even if the figures indicate a downward trend in the number of uniform flights, we can still be worried because we are living in a somewhat special period. You can only be encouraged to press and put all your weight in the balance so that you pay particular attention to the matter. On the other hand, of course, I will be aware of the picture that you were kind enough to give me back. We will be attentive to developments and we hope that the figures will continue to decline to absolute zero if possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u38	Minister, it is good to look at these figures. There must be vigilance. We see that there were seven in the first semester and nine in total in the year 2014. We must therefore keep a close eye on this. The honourable Member has already said that we must consider whether, if this is to continue or if we see an increase, a more stringent procedure should be introduced. I'll see if there's a difference between the provinces.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u39	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, according to the SNPS police union, some 20 federal police officers stationed in the Etterbeek barracks would, for the time being, not be able to store their individual weapons in a secure place. It would appear that these weapons are currently to be stored in simple lockers in a room that would be accessible to all. These police officers are therefore seeking safes or armored cabinets to safely store their work tools. However, according to the SNPS, this equipment would be lacking due to a lack of budget. If this situation is proven, it would be contrary to the rules of the police and, in particular, to a 2008 circular stating that "the wardrobes and locker rooms can never be used as storage furniture for individual weapons". Given the current context of the previous question, this situation is challenging. And because of this, weapons robberies have recently been found in lockers at a police station in the Midi police zone in Anderlecht. This type of incident therefore calls for increased vigilance. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, can you confirm this information and tell us what measures have been taken, if any, to provide material support to the police officers concerned? Can you tell us whether other problems of this kind are known to your services and whether a schedule for the supply of storage equipment is already defined for the coming weeks or months?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u40	Mr Calomne, I confirm that a problem of storage for weapons has arisen in the barracks of Etterbeek and, more specifically, in the direction of DGA DAS (Directorate of Public Safety). At present, the problem is solved. Two causes were at the root of the problem. Firstly, a contract for the purchase of cabinets was being prepared and was due to be completed in 2015. However, the non-conformity of certain proposals prevented the outcome of the case. This has led to the collection of collective cabinets to enable units to keep their weapons safe. Secondly, the significant increase in DGA DAS personnel capacity related to the unavailability of a market to order individual weapons chests resulted in an additional difficulty in securing them. Following the non-conclusion of the market, contacts are made with the army for the provision and acquisition of special safes for the safe storage of weapons. In addition, a series of measures have been taken by the same Directorate: recovery of absent persons' safes, sharing of individual safes where possible, use of other types of armoured cabinets for office staff. This has made it possible to find an adequate solution for everyone. Currently, all members of DGA DAS who hold an individual weapon have a correct solution even if some keys still need to be distributed. At present, the problem is solved. For the time being, the needs are reflected in the functional analysis of the market. Every effort is being made to ensure that this new market is launched soon and can be ready in the last quarter of 2016 so that the first orders can still take place on the planned budget in 2016. As this takes some time and solutions have to be found for other federal police entities, if needs arise in the short term, the federal police will, in the event of an exception, use the small purchases procedure (less than €8,500 VATC). The "small markets" procedure concerns amounts of EUR 31 000 VATC. For this exceptional procedure, a budgetary derogation on my part and from the General Inspectorate of Finance is necessary in order to resolve emergencies. For the time being, I have not yet received such a request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answers. This remains problematic for uniforms. I take note of the fact that the problems have been solved and that the orders are ready for the future, and that if problems were encountered in the meantime, a short-term solution could be found. We must be vigilant to avoid such problems and try to anticipate them at best, as this can have dramatic consequences. I encourage you to work in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u42	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Cassart-Mailleux's 10071 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u43	Mr President, Minister, this question dates back to 10 March. Unfortunately, we are now in another world. However, this question remains relevant. The Syrian opposition received a list of information about people who have joined IS. According to the media, there would also be people from Belgium. After what happened on 22 March, we are of course curious whether El Bakraoui and Abrini are also on that list. I have the following questions. Are our services in possession of that list and this information? Is it true that people from our country are also on that list? Is this about people of Belgian nationality? Do you intend to take legal action against these people, for example the withdrawal of their identity card? Were these people known to our services, especially the OCAD, before this list was published?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u44	Mr President, Minister, I agree with Mr Yüksel. In the meantime, our questions have been overtaken by current events and the unfortunate attacks. The British Sky News recently reported that it has documents revealing the names of 22 000 IS fighters. These documents would reveal a lot of information about known or unknown and potential suicide bombers in Western Europe. According to Sky News, these are forms filled out by recruits from at least 51 countries with names, addresses, telephone numbers and so on. Among other things, the recruits had to answer 23 questions as a condition for joining IS. For example, they must indicate what function they wish to perform within IS, where martyr or suicide bomber is a possibility. Sky News states on its website that it has informed the authorities. Of course, if the information is reliable, this list could be invaluable for further research. That is why I would like an answer to the following questions. Did the Belgian authorities effectively obtain this list? What importance do you attach to this information? Is that information reliable? Will that information also be stored? The list of names of 22 000 IS fighters contains a lot of data points. In order to be able to transfer that data correctly to our databases or link them to them, a fusion center should be called upon. Has this option been considered and is the answer positive? Do you think that European coordination for the management of this information can bring added value? Finally, do you think that the return Syrian fighters should be re-interrogated on the basis of that information from the list?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our services and myself are, of course, aware of the existence of these data sheets. The chips of the persons with a link to our country were shared with us and they are in our possession. It is specifically about special sheets of foreign terrorist fighters who either have Belgian nationality or have a dual nationality of which a Belgian nationality is the Belgian, or have stayed in our country for a while. The foreign terrorist fighters of Belgian nationality who appear on those sheets were all known to our services. In this respect, therefore, we have learned nothing from these chips. They were all on our OCAD list as well. The chips were of course checked for their reliability and it was also checked if the information is valid. The level of detail has come up. The foreign terrorist fighters, of course, have their own name, like everyone else, but they take aliases like we do, so to speak, change coats. The different aliases found on the chips correspond to the information we already had at our disposal. In that respect, we have not really learned anything from that either. The relevant information was kept in databases, in particular specialised databases of the police or the OCAD and of our intelligence services. The names are known, but the information from the chips can still contribute to a better image of IS and its fighters. The names are known, but not every element of information behind those chips was also known to us. In that sense, it did provide additional information, not so much, actually relatively little new information, but in some cases it gave us a definitive confirmation of whether someone had actually joined IS and not another group. There were people we didn't know if it was Al Nusra or ISIS and thanks to those chips there was a confirmation that it is at least ISIS, although two member cards can still be used. Sharing the data between the different countries is, of course, extremely important. The Europol Institute is there to do this exchange of information. It provides recognised added value in the field of the exploitation and analysis of transnational terrorist files. In Belgium we have the fusion center of the OCAD for the distribution and analysis of the data. In order to improve the information management of foreign terrorist fighters and to pool the information of different services in a single database, there is the creation of that dynamic database, which was approved just before the Easter holiday. This can now be used for the follow-up of these foreign terrorist fighters as described in the circular letter of August 2015. In addition, there is now a new circular from the College of Attorneys General, which was distributed within the legal succession of the foreign terrorist fighters. The services and judicial authorities are best placed to assess how to respond to new information. I would also remind you that the data sheets and their content were already known to the services and that there should therefore be no new elements, although they do contain parts of information that we have not yet had, but no new names.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u46	Mr President, Minister, the rapid exchange of information and the proper analysis are incredibly important in this story. We must continue to work together at European level on this momentum. The two drafts that we have approved and which will probably be formally adopted in plenary tomorrow will provide additional tools to better disseminate and analyse information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The painful attacks have accelerated the answers and accelerated the reaction. As you say yourself, the dynamic database is a partial answer. I understand that you agree that databases should be shared and that much more cooperation, including at European level, is needed in order to share information and to follow up very closely. One element in the case surrounding the leaked list continues to intrigue me. In your reply, you pointed out several times that there was no new relevant information. I'm sure it is. That communication came from the OCAD, but I was very surprised that the press release and the time when the chief of the OCAD replicated that there was no new relevant information from that list followed very quickly. I asked myself questions about that. How did it succeed, together with the fusion centre and other intelligence services, in reaching the conclusion so quickly that there was no new relevant information in the list? I find that intriguing until today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u48	I'd like to put that into perspective. I didn't say "no relevant information." I said no new names. To speak in database terms: we had the records, but perhaps a few columns had not been filled in, which we could add with new information, for example whether they belong to IS and not to Al Nusra. I'd like to apply that nuance. I didn't go to the OCAD myself to see how they did it, but on our OCAD list there are 440 Syrian fighters. If you can get a link with Belgium from these chips, then 440 records are not a huge piece of work. That could be an explanation, but I'm just thinking logically now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u49	Mr President, Minister, I have one last reply. Why do I have my doubts? You yourself indicate that 440 names are linked or can be removed from the list as Belgian fighters or as fighters who have stayed here. However, you have indicated yourself that quite a few aliases are used. So I wonder how the other 22 000 names were judged, so there is no doubt that there are no new names or possibly linked names with aliases. That is the question I still have.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u50	Mr President, in order to lighten the agenda somewhat, I would like to turn my questions Nos 10162, 10641 and 10652 into written questions. Mr. Minister, according to the report of Committee P, the general database of our police services would have many gaps in its content and would also be less well fed than the five special databases co-existing in the various police services. Even more worrying, recurring deficiencies in automatic document scanning systems over the past several months would have prevented a large number of documents from being posted online. This malfunction would result in an adverse delay in investigations, according to industry professionals. Minister, do you confirm the existence of these gaps in the content of the general database common to all police services? If so, other than the malfunctions of encoding systems, have your services identified any other factors to explain this situation? Are any measures already under consideration to correct these deficiencies?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u51	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, the dysfunction raised by Committee P concerning the General National Data Bank or BNG (ANG in Dutch) have more to do with the technical capacity for encoding and research in the BNG than with the very content of the information recorded by the local and federal police services. Before citing possible solutions, it is important to clarify and contextualize the findings of Committee P. The BNG is a police database where the facts are recorded on the basis of minutes resulting from judicial and administrative police missions. It allows, for example, the search for this information but also the analysis of facts on the basis of counts on different statistical variables, such as the number of recorded facts, modus operandi, objects linked to the infringement, means of transport used, destinations, places, etc. At the origin of the BNG, there is a database for the integrated, local and federal police. It contains structured information relating to judicial offences and entities connected with them, such as suspected persons, vehicles constituting the spoils of an offence and objects used to commit an offence. This database therefore does not contain the documents in extenso (verbal proceedings, information reports), it is simply a data encoding. In addition, the current BNG technology does not allow questions about unstructured data. Architecture and technology are quite old. This is one of the reasons why the central services of the Federal Police have developed "expert" databases that enable them to collect as many structured and unstructured data as possible concerning their requests for action. With regard to the completeness of the basic data entered into the BNG in relation to the offences, I confirm that the Federal Police Information and CTI Directorate verifies quarterly the rate of completeness of the BNG from the various police zones and the rate of feeding set normatively at 21 days. This same direction gives this information back to each chief of corps to enable him to analyse the situation of his body and to take appropriate measures. For the third quarter of 2015, the average completion rate and average speed were 96.5% and 27 days, respectively. If the calculation is recalculated today, compared with the figures decided 21 days after the end of the quarter concerned, the completeness for the facts of the same quarter would be even higher, as it is true that some facts are recorded late in the BNG. This delay does not pose any problems for certain operational purposes. For other operational purposes, and certainly those related to terrorism, where time is a key element, it is essential to use "expert" databases. With regard to possible solutions, the Federal Police Information and TCI Directorate has identified another factor that may be the basis for some malfunctions, including document scanning in the "expert" database. Due to a lack of knowledge and ability of software, there have been errors in scanning some documents. As a result, further research could not be carried out. In this context, it is also important that unstructured documents be scanned correctly. The i-Police project - on which I always come back when it comes to computer issues - chosen as part of the interdepartmental provision for 2016 and subsequent years, consists of upgrading the police's integrated computer system so that new analytical technologies on structured and unstructured, police or open data can be used. This new system will also include the documentation management system that is currently lacking. The system will allow the different police data banks to be interrogated in one operation. So, BNG is an old technology. We do the checks if all the fields are filled in and we do the reporting. A bad way of working has been identified for document scanning. This is now being corrected, but the real solution is the i-Police project, which is already being implemented and for which we already have a budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u52	Minister, thank you for enlightening the whole situation, because a lot of information about the system and the problems encountered were lacking. I hear we've already plucked up a lot of things. Some of the gaps presented as such are not. This parallel project, i-Police, is a good thing. I hear that the various budgets are already allocated to them, and I note with you that implementation is not slow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u53	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanvelthoven's 10185 was postponed to another meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u54	Minister, Belgium has been slow to transpose Directive 2013/51/Euratom of the Council of the European Union of 22 October 2013 laying down requirements for the protection of the health of the population with regard to radioactive substances in water intended for human consumption. While the deadline for transposition has expired since 28 November 2015, the Council of Ministers adopted a draft royal decree at first reading, only on 16 February 2016. Beyond this delay, I would like to ask you about both the method of preparation and the content of the text. Are the water distributors who will have to apply this legislation tomorrow associated with the project being adopted? If so, will their comments be taken into account? If not, why? Could you explain to us the various points contained in the royal decree in preparation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u55	Dear colleague, the legislation is drafted in collaboration with the AFCN experts. Between April 2015 and now, AFCN has corresponded and held various meetings with the Regions and stakeholders represented by the professional associations Belgaqua and FEVIA. Their remarks are taken into account, within the limits laid down by the directive of course. Water distributors will indeed have to comply with the provisions of this European Directive once it has been transposed and adapted to Belgian law. Since the Royal Decree will be an almost direct transposition of the European Directive 2013/51/Euratom, it will be easy to consult this text in order to become aware of the content of the future Royal Decree. We will therefore one by one transpose the points of the directive so that they comply with Belgian law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u56	Minister, I hear what you're saying, but I understand that water distributors have not been directly consulted. You talked about Belgaqua and FEVIA, but what about the Walloon Water Distribution Corporation or the inter-municipal water distribution companies? Do I have to understand that they were not involved in the work?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u57	They are members of both associations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u58	The Walloons are members of Aquawal, the Flemish of another organization but I do not know Belgaqua and FEVIA is none other than the Federation of the Food Industry... I will check this information and we will talk about it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u59	Questions Nos 10248 and 10506 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux and Mr Demon are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u60	Minister, the non-activity prior to the pension or the NAVAP scheme means that staff of the operational framework of the police services who had a preferential retirement age of 54, 56 or 58 years before 10 July 2014 will be allowed to include a period of non-activity of up to four years. The staff member in NAVAP shall receive a waiting fee equal to a percentage of his salary. You know the system best. The NAVAP scheme will cost local police areas a lot more. By way of compensation, the Government has ensured that the areas for staff benefiting from NAVAP can apply for grants for four years. Those amounts are fixed. For 2016, this amounts to EUR 29 million. This amount amounts to EUR 36 million in 2019. For staff who benefit from NAVAP, it is logical that those who effectively apply the scheme can apply for grants. In addition, there are probably a lot of staff who do not apply for the NAVAP scheme and want to work for a while. Why do police zones also receive subsidies for staff who continue to work? What are the additional budgetary burdens for the zones in relation to this group? How many people are eligible for NAVAP? Does the Minister have any idea of the persons who would be working and who would choose to use the scheme to see the budgetary costs of the latter group, those who would continue to work and for whom the police areas would still receive intervention from the federal government?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u61	Mrs Gabriels, the granting of subsidies to the NAVAP police areas is part of the overall approach to pension problems and their long-term financing. With this subsidy, we want to cover the additional costs and the budgetary burdens caused by the extension of careers. This applies both to non-activity prior to retirement and to staff who fulfil the conditions but choose to work longer. With regard to the second category, police zones have often budgeted for retirement at a certain age. Their seniority is higher and, if replaced by young people, there is a budgetary difference between them. The fact that they are longer on the job should not be discouraged because they are more expensive than young people. That is the responsibility for the fact that we are intervening in part. Now I come to your second question. The total amount of subsidies to the police zones is equal to the annual savings on the retirement pensions of the local police. As has just been said, the police areas receive subsidies for staff who want to work longer. The purpose of the grants is to ensure that no additional costs are incurred for the zones. How many staff are eligible for NAVAP? In 2015, there were 146, this year 359, next year 495, 595 in 2018 and 517 in 2019. In total, there are 2 112. I see you writing. Did you miss certain numbers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u62	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u63	Good. The Royal Decree and the circular on NAVAP was published on 22 February 2016 and therefore it is still too early to provide figures of the number of staff employed under that scheme. The requests for aid from the police zones are only now being sent to us, so I have no information of that either, but I assume you will be asking a follow-up question in a few months' time and I will be able to give you an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u64	Minister, I will certainly do that. I understand that you say that you have tried to compensate for the additional costs for the police areas between the younger and older forces.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u65	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u67	Minister, in order to be able to join a police school, an aspiring policeman must pass a series of tests. Among these, a language test is planned in the early stages of the selection process. In the event of a failure in the examination, candidates must wait a year before being able to retake the examination. However, very recently, the press informed us that, for French-speaking candidates, only 60% of them would pass the French test. In addition, it is in the Brussels Region that the percentage of success would be lowest, with only 53% positive results. You will agree, these figures are concerned by their level of weakness. If I believe the data published in the media, the lack of motivation for candidates and the shortcomings of compulsory education would play a decisive role in this situation. Minister, can you confirm these figures? What has been the general trend in recent years? Are there significant differences between the regions in this respect? Have any measures been taken to improve the success rate of this language test, including information and awareness programmes on the proper preparation of candidates for the tests?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u68	Mr Calomne, the first test in the selection chain of the basic framework consists, first, of psychotechnical tests designed to assess the ability to reason abstractly, to handle information and to reflect on numbers and, second, to examine the candidate's knowledge of the mother tongue. More generally, the higher the degree level, the higher the success rate as well. It makes quite sense. It is also observed that the success rates of the reasoning tests fluctuate according to the occupational situation at the time of application: at work, student or jobless. Candidates born outside Europe generally have the lowest results. I have provided you with tables containing numerous figures and percentages relating to the results – in terms of substance, form, language and cognitive aptitude tests (TAC) – of French- and Dutch-speaking candidates in the Brussels-Capital Region between 2011 and 2015. In 2015, 95% of Dutch-speaking people passed sports tests, compared with 88% of French-speaking people; in the form, 40% of Dutch-speaking people versus 55% of French-speaking people; in the language, 26% of Dutch-speaking people versus 70% of French-speaking people; in the cognitive aptitude test, 74% of Dutch-speaking people versus 83% of French-speaking people. I also have all the information concerning Dutch-speaking and French-speaking non-Brussels candidates. The Federal Police Recruitment and Selection Department is moving towards initiatives to attract candidates with the best profiles to the selection tests. We recommend adjusting the communication according to certain target groups by distinguishing those for which preparation is not essential. This is particularly the case for non-graduate candidates from higher education or those who are still students. For those whose profile may suggest more difficulty in selection, as we have seen in the figures available, they are less qualified candidates of allochthonous origin or in precarious employment situations. The Recruitment and Selection Department coordinates the promotion of employment fairs, open days in academies, information sessions in schools, information through local recruitment contact points in police areas and other recruitment events. In collaboration with local police services and police schools, the service organizes information and awareness-raising sessions on the proper preparation of candidates. I went to several open house sessions in various schools in Brussels and Antwerp, and I was able to see that there were many candidates who attended. Such sessions are held on a regular basis throughout the country. The schedule of these sessions can be found on the JobPol website. These sessions also allow candidates to ask questions to the contact persons for recruitment and selection in order to better prepare for the different tests. There are tables in police schools around which students come together to talk about their experiences. In addition, on the Jobpol website, all the information is available so that you can prepare for the various tests. Candidates can virtually discover and practice the various tests, including the verbal test. It is therefore also up to the candidates to take the necessary steps and to self-assess themselves before taking part in the various tests. A partnership with schools, both Dutch-speaking and French-speaking, has been established in this direction. Preparatory training courses providing a seventh year of technical education, a safety profession, allow future candidates to prepare for the selection and training of police officers. More specifically, three schools in Brussels have enrolled in this framework: two French-speaking schools, the Institut de l'Enfant Jésus in Etterbeek and the Émile Grison Institute in Anderlecht, and a Dutch-speaking school, het Sint-Guido Instituut, also in Anderlecht. The Recruitment and Selection department also supports the police pre-training of the Le Grain Training and Integration Centre, whose objective is to prepare for the success of the tests through targeted selection courses. This is also the case for social promotion education in the city of Brussels. The training project organised by the city of Brussels is intended to offer a pre-training designed specifically to meet the needs of allochtones for selection tests. We are making a lot of efforts to help people and direct them to the tests. But we're not going to lower the standards to enter the police. There are many ways to prepare for it, we are very encouraging to those preparing for these tests, but we are not going to lower the standards. We keep them at a level acceptable to everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u69	Mr Minister, thank you for your answer and for the tables, which I shall read out at the end of the committee. With regard to your last point, I obviously agree with you. I think that, indeed, if we can accompany and better prepare candidates, that is good, but that must not be done at the expense of quality. Thresholds and levels of requirement should not be reduced. We still expect our police forces to have more than minimal and significant skills in order to be able to perform this type of function. I am quite satisfied with the last element of your answer, I am going in the same direction as you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u70	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the national demonstration on 6 November 2014 had been marked by very violent incidents on the outskirts of the Midi railway station in Brussels. More than one hundred police officers had been injured on that occasion. As a result of these events, an evaluation report by Committee P pointed not at the attitude of the police officers, who, it should be pointed out, had acted with complacency and professionalism, but rather at the shortcomings of their various equipment. They had not been able to fully control the situation and cope with the spillovers that had taken place. In this connection, the report referred, I quote, to "a chaotic set of masks, clothing, shields and batons, which do not provide adequate protection". The document also highlighted the insufficient pressure of water cannons, the failure of pepper sprays or the provision of shields that were not adapted to the reality of the ground. As a result of these incidents, some police areas, including the one of which I am a member, Brussels-Capital Ixelles, have wanted to acquire new, more efficient tools. However, it would seem that this cannot be possible because the new standards for the purchase of equipment have not yet been set by your firm. So, Minister, I would like to ask you the following two questions. Following the events of 6 November 2014 and the findings of Committee P's report, what steps have been taken since then to improve police equipment? Is the information that the new standards for police equipment have not yet been enacted correct? If so, could you provide me with the reasons for this situation? In concrete terms, what obstacles must be overcome and what are the difficulties? What is the expected timetable for the adoption of this general framework? Thank you already for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u71	Mr Calomne, further to your question, I would like to inform you that the police have taken steps. I will begin with the measures concerning equipment, in particular the improvement of policing. The Integrated Police Coordination Committee appointed a working group of experts from the local police and the federal police to reflect on the concept of policing, building on a pre-existing risk analysis and integrating feedback. The results and recommendations of the working group were presented to and approved by the IPM Coordinating Committee on 17 March 2015. These were communicated to the Federal Police Logistics Directorate for consideration in the development of the new standards. As regards the non-lethal shield and collective armament, in addition to the maintenance of law and order, the GPI Coordination Committee agreed to initiate a separate reflection on two specific aspects: the new standards for the Negotiated Public Space Management (GNEP) shield and an analysis of opportunities for non-lethal collective armament in the context of the execution of the GNEP missions. In both areas, the work is not yet finalized, but we have asked for it to be completed. As regards measures at operational level and the police management of events, following the event of 6 November 2014 in Brussels, an action plan has been drawn up with a view to improving and continuing the professionalisation of the police management of events. In order to implement and evaluate this action plan, a specific working group was set up with representatives of the federal police and the local police. This action plan is regularly monitored with the various stakeholders. In addition, it seems to me appropriate to inform you that an approach has been initiated within the police services, in order to optimize the operational engagement procedures of the integrated police for the GNEP missions. In addition, the aim is to provide a set of structural solutions to findings within the police services, as well as to the recommendations recently made by the P Committee or the General Inspectorate of Police Services. To this end, a specific project mandate, supplemented by a detailed action plan, was recently approved by the Federal Police Steering Committee and the Integrated Police Coordination Committee. With regard to your second question, in general, the expected timetable for the adoption of the general framework cannot yet be determined at this stage. The procedure for introducing the new standards is under way and the current standards are minimal. Recommendations do not necessarily call into question minimum standards. Recommendations are generally translated into technical specifications when developing specifications for police equipment. Specifically, for law enforcement clothing, a standard is being prepared for jackets and pants in GLP uniforms. Discussions on this future standard will be placed on the agenda of the next Uniforms Commission, which is set for 3 June. The Federal Police Logistics Directorate takes into account the recommendations of the various reports when developing and approving these standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u72	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased that, as a result of the malfunctions that were noted on that occasion, action has been taken. In addition, you have established working groups that include both federal and local police representatives. I think it's important to get back on the ground. With regard to the new standards, I take note of your information that a decision will be taken on 3 June. The question arose in particular for my police area. In this way, we will be able to make arrangements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u73	Mr Minister, Article 36 (1) of the Law of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain public economic enterprises provides that autonomous public enterprises are subject to the language law in administrative matters. This is still the case for SNCB until further notice. It means that SNCB must have language frameworks as far as its central services are concerned. Language frameworks based on the volume of work that the central services of SNCB are moving in the two parts of the country and in the languages of the country, in order to ensure a fair distribution of relations between language groups. The last language frameworks drawn up for SNCB date from 1993 and those language frameworks were destroyed by the Council of State. Since then, no further initiatives have been taken to establish new language frameworks. SNCB has been without valid language frameworks for 16 years. This entails a great deal of risk: any interested party may take steps to challenge the appointment or promotion to the Council of State on the basis of the lack of language frameworks. Mr Minister, I have done my best and I have first knocked on the door of your colleague responsible for SNCB. I asked her a few written questions and then I interviewed her orally, with a number of specific questions based on the figures she gave in her confirmation that the language frameworks were missing. I have asked her whether counts have yet to be carried out, what steps still need to be taken to arrive at a specific language framework proposal; when SNCB intends to do so, whether, if it does not see progress, it will take an initiative or set a deadline with regard to SNCB. In short, there were a lot of very specific questions. The answer I received from Minister Galant, I will not remember, it was one sentence: "The answer I gave you on 1 December 2015 to your written question No. 559, is still applicable and I have nothing to add to that." That is why I am trying with you, Mr Minister, because you are responsible for language legislation and so allow me to question you on this matter. You are also competent for the VCT, which has repeatedly denounced the problem and said in the latest annual report: "The VCT will continue to put pressure on the services that do not have valid language frameworks in 2015. This is a serious offence in which the absence of language frameworks questions the essence of the law itself." Do you think it is acceptable or normal that SNCB no longer has language frameworks for 16 years? You are responsible for language legislation. What do you think of the behaviour of your colleague in Mobility? Do you think it is normal for her to get rid of it with one sentence and refuse to act against the situation? Can that be discussed? Will you talk to her about that? If so, in what sense? The Standing Committee on Language Control, an institution within your jurisdiction, believes that it is a serious offence and that the essence of the law itself is being undermined. If that institution says something like this repeatedly, do you not think that you, as responsible for language legislation, should act, for example by amending legislation, in order to make such situations impossible? You could also perform a sanctioning act. I refer to Article 57 of the Language Act in administrative matters. Will you use that to somehow get movement in that file?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u74	Mrs Pas, I do not think it is normal that SNCB has not had an adapted language framework for 16 years. My cabinet has therefore contacted Minister Galant's cabinet in order to find a solution together. As far as the adaptation of language laws is concerned, this requires a two-thirds majority. The government doesn't have it. Even with the Flemish interest, we would not have a two-thirds majority. If you are able to achieve a two-thirds majority, on top of the current majority, then we can look at it further. So we do not have a two-thirds majority. The amendment of the language laws is not included in the government agreement either. That road will therefore not lead to anything in the short term. I am committed to finding, together with Minister Galant's cabinet, a solution that fits into the language legislation and implements what the legislator requires in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u75	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Indeed, it would be a lot of progress if we did not even have to introduce new legislation. If the existing legislation were to be applied, it would be a huge step forward. I'm pleased with your commitment. I hope that you will achieve results in the near future. You will have no doubt that I will remind you or Minister Galant of this. You do not think it is normal, like everyone else, that after 16 years that is still not right. Nor do I think it is normal for me to receive meaningless answers from the Minister who is also responsible for this. I will certainly follow up on the matter further. I hope that you will make some progress on the dossier soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u76	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u77	Minister, I have a brief question about the use of modern technology in the police. Specifically, in the United States they are testing the OnCamera app, which allows you to make a live video call with police officers, instead of traditional 101 calls. By the way, I've been watching the TV program The Emergency Centre. Those people have a tough job. To get back to the point, among other things, the aim is to activate this app in case of a threat and show the screen to a potential perpetrator before it can strike. In this way, the unsub in question immediately sees and hears an officer who can address him and possibly discourage him. For a number of reasons, this modern technology is important. This method is not only much faster than a regular call, the video calls are also automatically stored in a database and the app is connected to a GPS, allowing the emergency services to quickly find the exact location of the facts. Of course, the system also helps to identify the suspected offenders later. The rapid technological evolution of recent years and the possibilities of smartphones can certainly improve our security. Minister, I have two questions for you. What do you think of this system? Has it been examined in ePolice's window yet? If not, can you consider this? More generally, is there sufficient use of new technologies in the operation of the police?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u78	I will answer your last question, Mrs Gabriels. It's never enough. It can always be better. The technology is evolving rapidly. At the moment, calling emergency numbers 100 and 112, for fire and ambulance, or 101 is the fastest and most appropriate way to reach the emergency and security services. These emergency numbers are given priority on the network and are free of charge. A mobile device must have a SIM card, but call value or an active subscription is not required. You can also call 911 and 101 without a call value. Smartphones also have a shortcut to contact 112 without the device having to be unlocked. When an emergency power station is contacted via a mobile device, an actual approximate positioning is performed by the mobile operator. Taking into account technological developments, my services are developing an app to contact the emergency services available to all citizens. Through this app you can use icons at one pressure to indicate what help you need: police, ambulance or fire department. After that, a voice call will be started with the emergency call centre. Unlike a regular call, the call via the app will allow, based on the location options of the smartphone, to immediately show where someone is located. The operator may also choose to enter into a chat conversation if someone has previously introduced that he or she is deaf, hearing impaired or speech impaired or if the operator considers it necessary by other circumstances. The person concerned shall set up the app and indicate that he or she is deaf. From that moment on, that's forever registered. Chat can be done in real time, if an internet connection is available or via SMS, if there is no internet connection. If the user has previously entered other information, e.g. his identity or medical data, that information will also immediately become visible to the operator. The roll-out of the 112 app is scheduled for the second trimester of this year and will be available free of charge for Apple and Android operating systems iOS. Currently, there is no provision for a live video call. That could be one of the possible extensions of the 112 app. The results of the tests of the apps, such as OnCamera, are interesting and will be followed up further. Now we want to roll out what's in the pipeline first. Subsequently, on the basis of evaluations and feedback from users, things can evolve further. It is therefore certainly interesting to follow OnCamera.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u79	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. We note that there are important developments to improve police work. For me, it is new information that the app is being developed and can be realized in the short term. That is certainly good for the people who come into contact with it every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u80	Mr President, as soon as the app is available, I will give a demo here in committee so that the members of the Home Affairs Commission can install the app directly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u81	Mr. Secretary, until what time do you have time?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u82	Mr President, I can stay until 6:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u83	Following Mrs Gabriel's question, we will probably be able to deal with Mr Nollet's questions but no longer with the combined questions. It also depends on the conciseness of Mr Nollet and on whether we can deal with all three of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u84	Minister, everyone knows that fire zones must have a staffing plan to recruit, promote and professionalise. They are, of course, the basis for the policies of the various zones. The law first provided that the first personnel plan of the zones had to be completed by the end of June 2015. However, this has proved to be virtually unfeasible and you have rightly extended the deadline until the end of 2015. On the basis of a circular letter, you also worked out a method of recruitment in anticipation of a definitive staff plan. The failure to comply with the submission obligation initially also meant that the areas that did not have a staff plan could no longer do recruitments. In the meantime, how many fire zones have submitted their personnel plans? We're now four months after the deadline. What difficulties do you think the areas are experiencing at the moment in order to comply with the legal obligation? The most important question is what concrete consequences are there now if the plans have not yet been submitted. Is it still the case that the area in question will not be able to recruit or is this only applicable to certain categories of staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u85	Mrs. Gabriels, I need to nuance this a little bit. 28 of the 34 zones started on 1 January 2015. Those six others started on 1 April and were also able to start in the course of 2015. According to the information currently available to us, 15 assisted areas have approved a definitive staff plan, 15 out of 28. This means that for the zones which started on 1 April, 1 May, 1 June 2015 or 1 January 2016, the 12-month period for a definitive staff plan has not yet expired. When zones do not yet have a definitive staff plan, they often result from the high workload at the start-up of the zones and also from the lack of administrative support staff in the zones. Those are the two reasons that are most common. I myself and the governor's services exercise administrative control over the decisions on the staff plan of the operational staff. If a zone does not have a permanent staff plan, it is not possible to recruit, promote or initiate the procedures of mobility or professionalisation. There should also be a staff plan for administrative staff. However, this is the principle of good governance which allows the zones to acquire administrative profiles without a plan in practice. Sensu strictu is therefore not required by law for an administrative plan, but I have said that our inspection services will be a coach in the start-up period much earlier than as an inspection in the literal sense of the word. The zones are also informed that they are legally obliged to draw up a plan for operational personnel, but that they should also include the administrative staff in the exercise immediately. It's a matter of good management of the zone. The inspection services also point out that when zones do not yet have a staff plan, they can see where the shoe is pinching to make the catch-up move as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u86	Thank you, Minister. I fully agree with your pragmatic attitude. You yourself have a lot of contact with the practice. If one finds that, even with the extension, only 1 500 are in order, then there is a general problem there and it is not an exceptional case. I think we should be flexible about it, too. This period cannot be postponed indefinitely, but administrative profiles are often needed to meet the administrative obligations imposed. In that sense, I certainly agree with the guidelines you gave to the inspection.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u87	Question No 10305 by Mrs Gabriëls will be attached to your question No 10287.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u88	Before the first question, you may recall, Minister, that on 24 February I asked you whether you agreed to send me the composition of the Administrative Committee on Environmental Appeals. Today is April 13. Frankly! At first, when I asked for things, it happened quickly and I don't feel that way anymore. But you've had a job. I come to my first question. The Energy Journal revealed internal documents at EDF in which the electrician considered the reliability of French nuclear reactor backup generators to be "degraded" between 2012 and 2014. To be more precise, all groups were problematic in 2014: 43 per cent were classified as "to be monitored", 44 per cent were classified as "degraded" and 13 per cent were classified as "unacceptable". When I say classified, it's not by the French ecologists' study centre, but by EDF. This situation is cause for concern and alarm, especially since the nuclear safety authority has stated that it is not aware of these reliability reports. However, it is these massive engines that must, in the event of a shutdown of the electricity grid, supply vital electricity to the cooling of the radioactive fuel in a few seconds. In Fukushima, these relief generators did not start after the tsunami, causing the disaster that we know. I'd like to know what's going on with us in Belgium. What is the proportion of emergency generators at our nuclear power plants that are in an "unacceptable", "degraded" or "supervised" state? Does the AFCN have knowledge of the precise reliability records of these generators? Can you share these balances with us?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u89	Mr Nollet, in response to your question on the state of the generators at Belgian power stations, here are some elements that shed light on the approach taken by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency in general for the state of the components. The specific regulation of article 12 of the Royal Decree of 30 November 2011 on the safety requirements of nuclear installations requires the operator to establish a maintenance programme and implement it for components important for nuclear safety, which is obviously the case for safety generators but also for many other components. AFCN does not receive and request reports of tests and interviews conducted on all of these components. On the other hand, it has access to all the data it wishes and its technical subsidiary, BEL V, carries out regular on-the-spot checks on this subject. The controls address both generic aspects of the maintenance process and more ad hoc testing. In practice, the operator can only raise power and operate its power plant if a number of conditions are met. These requirements are referred to as technical specifications. In particular, it requires the possession of diesel for the operation of safety equipment, including redundancy to cope with a failure of one of them. This type of requirement makes it possible to ensure the availability of emergency power supplies in case of need. The AFCN does not have a detailed record of the status of all generators at the various sites, but ensures that maintenance procedures are properly applied by the operator and that these generators are permanently available for safe operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u90	Minister, in view of the French situation, the fact that the AFCN does not currently have a detailed balance sheet should lead, in your head or that of the Agency, to the fact that one must be requested! As we have seen, in France, 43% are to be monitored, 44% are in degraded condition in 13% are in unacceptable condition. This could be asked, not in the light of concern for Belgium, but of the situation in France. It's a wish I'm making for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u91	I agree with you. I'll see what we can do with the AFCN about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u92	Minister, during our last exchange on the deployment of military personnel to nuclear sites, you told me that four military personnel would be more than likely present on the IRE site 7 days a week, 24 hours a day. Can you tell me how much each month this deployment will cost and who will take care of it, the IRE, the federal budget or any other source?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u93	Mr President, Minister, I will shorten my question. The introduction is known by everyone. Meanwhile, we have relapsed to threat level four again. It is true that I am talking about the cost of the military. You have already replied to oral questions on this subject in the past. The cost is not small. During the 2015 press conference on the bilan, the cost of military deployment last year was as much as 18 million euros for security orders. Of course safety has a price, but later it turned out that soldiers will also be responsible for monitoring nuclear sites and nuclear power stations. How long does the Minister consider this situation to be sustainable? According to your chairman, soldiers are no longer to be thought away from the street scene. How long can we continue to do this effectively? What is the total cost of military deployment to date? Can you give an idea of the cost estimate of the new monitoring mission for nuclear sites and nuclear power plants? Finally, do you see a role here for any other security actors?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u94	Madam, sir, the use of the military is based on a memorandum of understanding with the integrated police. On the basis of the Memorandum of Understanding, only variable costs are charged to the Federal Police. For 2015, the total amount was EUR 17,150,000. The deployment until 18 March 2016 amounts to approximately 9,700 000 euros. Costs per individual site are not kept up to date. To the attention of the Federal Police, an invoice shall be drawn up on the basis of the actual daily mobilisation and taking into account the decisions of the Council of Ministers on maximum deployment. On 17 March, the Council of Ministers decided to maintain a maximum of 1,000 military personnel, including a maximum of 740 on the street. For this period, the deployment was a maximum of 1,000 military personnel, with a maximum of 700 on the street. The increase to 740 is due to the new mission of guarding nuclear sites and power plants. For the presence at Doel and Tihange nuclear facilities, the total cost is charged by the federal police at Electrabel. For other operators, such an approach is not possible since they have the budgetary status of a public non-financial company. As mentioned above, only variable costs are charged by National Defence to the federal police. The amount that the Federal Police will receive from Electrabel, based on the total cost of deployments to Doel and Tihange, will cover the invoice that Defence will forward to the Federal Police for variable costs of deployment to all relevant nuclear sites. That is why the allocation to nuclear sites is budgetaryly neutral. I explain: Electrabel pays the total cost of the military presence for the Doel and Tihange sites. Military personnel are planned in Doel, Tihange, SCK-CEN and IRE. We pay Defence the variable cost and we receive Electrabel's payment for the total cost for both sites, which is sufficient to cover the variable costs of the four sites. As I explained in the Chambers of the Interior Committees of 20 and 27 January last, the roll-out for the placement of the new Directorate for Surveillance and Protection is foreseen for the period from this year to 2018. You will understand that there are many aspects to such an operation: legal, operational, statutory, logistics, uniforms and I do not know what else. That is by no means a short-term project. I have also already explained the future tasks of that management, in particular the police courts and courts, the monitoring of the Royal Palace, the monitoring of public buildings, the monitoring of international institutions and also the monitoring of critical infrastructure, such as nuclear sites. However, for Level 3 and Level 4 surveillance orders, Defence will continue to provide support on the basis of the current protocol agreement. The first thing that we will fill out with this board, as I said earlier, and we will continue to do so, is probably the police courts and courts. That task already exists within the Justice Department and we will hand it over. The nuclear sites will also be the first to be completed, as these assignments are paid for by an external partner. Mrs Gabriels, with regard to the private surveillance sector, the role of the key tasks debate can relieve the police of certain tasks. For example, the use of this sector will be further optimised in the context of events. However, when we look at the equipment and mission of military personnel, we have to note that these personnel cannot be replaced by private security personnel. In addition, the private security sector does not work for free; an invoice will also have to be paid there. I can tell you that we would like to table a legislative proposal in the Chamber before the summer, after the current review of existing legislation on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u95	Mr President, I am not going to reply so I can ask my last question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u96	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You mentioned a bill. I assume that you meant a draft law and that we can still roll out our bill and we can still find each other in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u97	Of course. That was a mistake.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u98	Mr President, Minister, you know that I am very concerned about the development of EZB. During our last exchange, you informed me of this: "AFCN has fears that the company will evade its responsibilities." You stated that "FACN always requires the company to submit an application for dismantling" and that "AFCN is in the process of drafting an injunction on this subject which will be accompanied by a deadline within which AFCN intends to receive this plan for dismantling". This information was somewhat counterproductive to the initial rather reassuring information that the municipality was trying to disseminate. Today I would like to know whether such an injunction has been sent and what time limit has been set for receiving this dismantling plan. I really want everything to be done so that we don't have to relive a second "Best Medical" scenario. Furthermore, in the same exchange you informed me that on Wednesday, March 16, 2016, AFCN was going to conduct an inspection at UCL, in particular to clarify the requests to be imposed on UCL and EZB with regard to waste. What happened to this inspection? What conclusions have been reached and what follow-up is envisaged? I would also like to know the volume of this waste because, strangely enough, you were telling me that if AFCN had a detailed inventory of this waste, it did not know the volume.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u99	Mr. Nollet, the AFCN Order is dated March 21st and was sent by recommendation on March 22nd to the company EZB. In this way, AFCN requires it to provide it with an application for authorisation to dismantle before 15 May 2016 pursuant to Article 17.2 of the Royal Decree of 20 July 2001. This reasonable period of time has been set in the light of the low and controlled risk to the population, workers and the environment and the desire of the AFCN to receive from the operator a quality and unequivocal record as to the final and safe destination that is preferred for both cyclotrons. Secondly, the inspection carried out by AFCN on 16 March at UCL provided an update on the procedure implemented by AFCN for the management of waste from EZB's activities. These are characterized in units: a tourie or bag is considered indistinctly as units and not as volumes. About three thousand waste units have already been released, i.e. evacuated to the conventional waste treatment lines, as they have a lower level of radioactivity than the level of release set out in the royal decree referred to above. UCL is still storing about 800 waste units. Until now, UCL has regularly measured the level of radioactivity of these units to determine whether they can be released or whether they should be re-stored until the next measurement. During its March 16 inspection, the AFCN required the UCL to conduct a characterization exercise of all stored units in order for a decision to be made for each of them. Thus, all those which have been stored for more than 10 years and whose level of radioactivity is higher than that of release will now have to be subject to a request for evacuation from ONDRAF. Units that have been stored for less than 10 years will be processed according to the procedure previously announced. UCL has announced that this characterization exercise will be completed by May 15, 2016. The results will then be presented to the AFCN. The actions and deadlines imposed on AFCN will be reflected in the inspection report that is still being edited. The AFCN does not consider it necessary to impose these measures through an injunction, but does not give up doing so if the actions and deadlines imposed are not respected by the UCL.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic382x.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Mrs Jadin reported that she was converting her questions Nos 10622, 10641 and 10652 into written questions. That concludes today's agenda.
