ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u1	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you for this afternoon's questions and answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u2	Mr.President, Minister, in 2013, online betting sites grew by 130% of their sales and counted 1 million users, including 500,000 regular players in 2014. Online sports betting sites are accessible 24 hours a day and allow you to wager money without a ceiling at the frequency of their choice, on matches of any kind. The gambling commission denounces a flagrant lack of control but also a lack of means to achieve this. The regulator struggles to frame these playgrounds. The bets made on the web are beyond control in Belgium, including tax controls. Moreover, most sites are not always located in Belgium. They are sometimes outside European territory, where they cannot be controlled. To address this problem, an online betting site holder must now obtain a licence to operate. This authorisation implies a partnership with a Belgian physical operator. But many sites abroad still do not have this license. In this regard, Minister, I would like to ask you a number of questions. Of the sites that have been licensed, there are still many serious deficiencies due to lack of control. How often are the controls carried out by licensed operators? Have you planned to intensify them? Will new financial and human resources be allocated to these controls? If so, can you tell us more about them? Many Belgians continue to play on sites hosted abroad. Do you intend to control these excesses committed by non-licensed sites? If so, how? It is necessary to better protect players in our territory. Currently, there are about a million logins but the number of players is actually much smaller. What provisions do you envisage to limit these multiple logins? It is easy for miners to create logins that allow them to play online. What measures do you advocate in the short and medium term to ensure greater protection for these minors?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u3	Mr Devin, the draft royal decrees which allow more specific control over the Internet have been notified to the European Commission. Once these royal decrees have been approved after the Commission's comments have been incorporated, the protocols for more effective control of gambling and betting sites will be drawn up. For the time being, monitoring takes place through the legal conditions of licensing that must be met, complaints being followed daily. If necessary, the gambling commission shall contact the licence holder to verify the professional nature of its operation. Once the protocols have come into force, more stringent controls can be carried out. The ICT budget of the gambling commission has been increased, which will strengthen the capacity and quality of the controls. The gambling commission will also invest in the acquisition of expertise, including through participation in courses and training. An illegal betting website without a license with a server located abroad to which Belgian players can access is placed, after investigation and via minutes, on what is called the blacklist of gambling and betting sites. When each addition to this list, internet services providers are informed that they have to make a "stop" page appear when the user wants to access this type of illegal online game site. There is still no measure to limit multiple player accounts. The gambling commission is currently examining possibilities for a uniform registration and identification procedure so that each player is correctly identified. The conclusions must lead to a regulatory framework that avoids these multiple logins for the same gaming site. The holders of an online gambling license are obliged to indicate on their site that it takes at least 21 years to be able to play. The gambling commission is not aware of any cases of legal sites that have intentionally allowed minors to play. Thanks to the registration and identification procedure I have just mentioned, minors will be prevented from playing online on legal sites. Minutes will be drawn up for sites that intentionally allow minors to play.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answer. That said, you indicated that the means had been increased. Could you give us an idea of what is happening in the 2016 budget? How have these resources been increased?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u5	Mr Devin, if I may, I will provide you with the answer to this question in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u6	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u7	Mr Philippe Blanchart's inquiry No. 98 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u8	Minister, you announced a first step in the rationalisation of the peace process before Christmas. The double seat of the peace court Herne/Sint-Pieters-Leeuw, my own region, would end up in Sint-Pieters-Leeuw and the seat in Herne would disappear. Where necessary, the principle of justice under a tree can be provided. In a second phase, the redrawing of the cantons follows. In particular, Herne/Sint-Pieters-Leeuw is a strange canton because both municipalities are far apart and are closer to Herne the municipality of Lennik, where there is a peace dish. The same goes for Gooik, Bever, Galmaarden and Pepingen, who also belong to the canton of Herne/Sint-Pieters-Leeuw. Minister, is it possible to apply justice under a tree in Herne? On what basis will you decide where justice under a tree will be applied? What participation will be left to the local authorities? Will you confirm that there will be another redrawing of the cantons after that? Based on what parameters will this redrawing take place? What is the current situation with regard to the measurement of workload in the peace courts? What stage is it in? Given the location of Herne in relation to Lennik and Sint-Pieters-Leeuw, is it not desirable that the municipalities of Herne, Bever, Pepingen, Gooik and Galmaarden should be added to the canton of Lennik?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u9	I am pleased that we were able to land just before Christmas with the first phase of the plan for the peace appetizers. This represents an important step towards a more modern justice system. In this first phase it was decided to centralize the seat of the canton of Herne/Sint-Pieters-Leeuw in St. Peter's-Leeuw. The first phase was about the double and triple cantons. It was stipulated that the possibility of justice could be offered, where appropriate and where one is asking for it on the ground. As the mayor of Herne made me feel, this can of course still be provided for in Herne. I have been told on several occasions that in different places a more logical redistribution of cantons is possible. This is part of the third and final phase in which we look at where the limits of the cantons can be redesigned. Different criteria are taken into account, such as population figures, area, economic figures, infrastructure, the presence of hospitals and care centres, etc. I'll take your suggestion with me in this exercise. As regards workload measurement, the Standing Bureau for Statistics and Workload Measurement at the College of the Courts and Courts carried out a first measurement of the workload of the peace courts in 2015. The workload measurement report was validated by the Guidance Committee on 20 October 2015, but as was the case with previous workload measurements of the other types of courts, this report also indicates that this workload measurement is a zero measurement that should not give rise to adjustments of frameworks of any canton. This instrument must first be optimised and tested in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. For the record, of course, I fully support the reform. I think it is no longer justified that we have so many peace appetizers. In a later phase it may indeed be useful to consider how the cantons can also be rearranged in a more logical way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u11	Mr President, Minister, the FCA and by extension the interaction between the FCA and the central authorities of the Communities in Flanders, so the VCA is a recurring problem on which I regularly receive complaints. It concerns the interaction between the FCA and the VCA, the first of which interprets its powers very widely. This creates troubles on the ground. On the basis of an adoption dossier approved by the VCA, the local foreign authorities/courts shall decide on the adoption, after which the FCA shall, on the basis of a very broad interpretation of its powers, repeat the examination of the VCA in order to verify that the adoption is not contrary to public policy. A re-evaluation by the FCA based on the same data leads to legal uncertainty because, if the FCA disagrees and therefore does not recognise the adoption, the child was legally adopted by Belgians in his own country, while he cannot enter Belgium. As a result of this re-evaluation, the FCA is also above the central authorities of the Communities, while the law has merely divided the powers and there can be no hierarchy. As early as 2010, the problem was discussed in the Committee on Welfare of the Flemish Parliament. Minister Vandeurzen then expressed the need to amend the law on Articles 364-1 and 365-2 BW. In addition to consultations, he had himself submitted a proposal for legislative amendment to the then Minister of Justice, as well as to the Commission of consultations and follow-up. Mr Vandeurzen felt that it should be made clear that when applying for recognition the FCA must respect the decision of the central authorities of the Communities on adoption and subsidiarity and cannot make a new assessment on the basis of the same data. Finally, there was also the story of the Ugandan adoptions which are suddenly in great legal uncertainty, on the one hand, through the behaviour of the local consul, supported in this by a local anti-adoption association and, on the other hand, by the FCA which shut down the procedure and sent the prosecutors a warning letter concerning child trafficking and corruption in Ugandan files. Mr Minister, I have the following questions: How do you view a legislative amendment, as proposed at the time by your Flemish colleague, Minister Vandeurzen? How do you assess your colleague's proposal, which was already forwarded to the Commission five years ago for consultation and follow-up, as well as to the then Minister of Justice? Why did the Commission come together so little in the past few years of consultation and follow-up? How can the consultation be increased? What planning has been planned for the coming year? What information does the FCA base itself on to stop the Ugandan files at the moment and to write the prisons with a warning for child trafficking and corruption? Why were the central authorities of the Communities not informed of this letter? How can parents protest the decision to stop handling these Ugandan files?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u12	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, the problem you raise in your first question is not new. The conflicts arising between the decisions taken by the respective central authorities in carrying out an international adoption were already raised in the past in the Committee on Justice, for example in oral question No. 1725 at legislative time 53. It was also addressed in judgments of, for example, the Brussels Appeals Court of 22 February 2011 as well as in the Committee on Welfare of the Flemish Parliament. I understand and agree with the concern to avoid as much suffering as possible from the candidates. The most humane approach possible and the proper coordination between the central authorities are very important, without disregarding the fundamental principles of protecting the best interests of the child, which are at the root of any adoption. I can inform you that the subject will be discussed at the forthcoming Commission for consultation and follow-up on 11 March 2016. Indeed, in recent years the Commission has not met twice a year for consultation and follow-up. This does not mean that there has been no frequent informal consultation with the Communities. Important legislative changes were prepared in joint consultation. There is, for example, the Law of 11 April 2012 on the regularisation of adoption procedures carried out abroad by persons habitually resident in Belgium, which was amended by law of 25 April 2014 at the request of the Communities. For example, at the end of 2015, a preliminary draft law amending the Civil Code and the Judicial Code was finalised, in particular with a view to introducing a prior fitness judgment in the domestic adoption procedure, whereby the Communities were consulted. Informal consultations have been held between the services concerned on the opening of new channels, stressing the need for certain guarantees to be provided, inter alia, to prevent a child from being withdrawn from his natural parents, culture and environment for no serious reason, or to be the subject of trade or kidnapping. In June 2015, the Central Authorities participated in the Fourth Special Conference in The Hague on the practical functioning of the Hague Convention of 29 May 1993 on International Cooperation and the Protection of Children in the field of International Adoption. In December 2015, the Commission was convened again for consultation and follow-up and an agenda was set. Regarding Uganda, the Federal Central Authority received information from the Foreign Affairs Services which may be important in assessing the adoptions of Ugandan children pronounced in Belgium. The service provided that information to the court. After all, the public prosecutor must give an opinion on each adoption. The Flemish administration was informed at the same time of the information provided to the public prosecutor. The parquet is now investigating that information in complete serenity and with due urgency. This study, in accordance with the letter and spirit of adoption legislation, is conducted in the interests of the children and of the candidates so that they can rest assured that they will not be able to return to it later. At the same time, it ensures that the interests of all those concerned are treated in an appropriate and fair manner, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Treaty and of the relevant legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u14	Mr President, Minister, in the summer of 2013, a political decision was taken to transfer the protection of important persons from state security to the federal police, which has this task today. Since not all personnel are transferred, the intelligence service will gain momentum. It was announced that 23 people within the State Security could return to work to support and strengthen the provincial public services in particular. There seems to be disagreement about the modalities of the transfer of personnel. A number of regulations and benefits which exist under the State Security Statute are not possible with the federal police. Negotiations with the trade unions continue to be stalled on a number of points. The last deadline set, namely 1 January 2016, was not met. What are the main reasons why there is still no agreement on the transfer of protection assistants? On what points was no agreement found? In what way do you hope to force a breakthrough in this case? At what time do you think that the transfer can really be a fact? When will the 23 additional people be able to be used for the additional intelligence work?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u15	According to the coalition agreement, the mission of personal protection of the State's Security will be transferred to the federal police. This transfer will result in the police centralising all government tasks of personal protection. The security of the State thus becomes a pure intelligence and security service. In concrete terms, the 55 protection assistants of the State Protection Service will be transferred to the federal police. They will continue their activities under the authority and responsibility of the police. The 23 inspectors who are currently employed as frame staff in the Department of Protection will remain with the intelligence service and will be used for intelligence work after the transfer of the protection mission. This therefore means strengthening the security of the State. The legal framework for this transfer will be a legal amendment and a royal decree which will regulate the status of the protection assistants once they are employed by the police. The draft law in question was finally adopted by the Council of Ministers. The draft royal decree is currently being discussed with the trade unions at the State Security Office. The sectoral committee in question focuses on the transfer premium for the protection assistants and on the possibility for those concerned to opt for reduced basic training. Both measures are taken by the government to respond to the questions that the trade unions still had. We aim to achieve the transfer in the spring.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u16	You therefore acknowledge that the operation was not completed on 1 January 2016. Now you're talking about spring. That could take until the fall starts. I don't know what your definition of that is. In any case, I have the impression that this operation, which has been announced for a long time, is not going well. You remain rather vague about the problems to be dealt with. We have already heard about the transfer premium and the reduced training. It appears that there are still several problems with the statutes, unless an agreement has been reached on them in the meantime. I believe that this will have an impact on the budget. If I am not mistaken, it was stipulated that the State Security would no longer have a budget for the payment of these staff from 1 January 2016. After all, they were supposed to be with the federal police in the meantime. I suspect there will be another budget change if this operation is not to be completed quickly. We shall see about that in budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u17	In the spring.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u18	Soon I will be asking a parliamentary question on the definition of spring forecast.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u19	That's when the birds lay an egg.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u20	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Uyttersprot converted 2856 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u21	Mr President, Minister, Belgium has 187 cantons. In principle, there is a peace dish per canton, except for a number of exceptions, where there are several seats per canton. In the judicial cantons where there are currently two or three seats, only one seat per canton will be retained in the context of rationalisation. Since I myself am a member of Dendermonde's desk, you will forgive me if I confine myself to the judicial district of Dendermonde, which counts several cantons. Most seats remain unchanged there, except in the canton of Wetteren-Zele. That canton is competent for Wetteren, Wichelen and Zele and currently has two seats, namely Wetteren and Zele. For Wetteren and Wichelen the situation remains unchanged. In Zele, on the other hand, not only does the seat disappear, but also every sitting day. The Zelenaars must therefore go to Wetteren in the future. I have taken the liberty of adding a map of the province of East Flanders to my question and it shows that there are still two municipalities between Zele and Wetteren, namely Wichelen and Berlare, both of which belong to other cantons, which is an illogical situation. Hence my suggestion to send the Zeler to Lokeren or Dendermonde. As a result of this decision, I would like to put the following questions to you. On what basis was it decided to retain the seat of Wetteren and delete that of Zele? Is there any possibility in the future of letting Zele fall under the peace court of Lokeren or Dendermonde, municipalities that are closer? Can this be considered in a subsequent phase? Is the building to be emptied in Zele State property? If so, what destination will be planned for this purpose? Will the staff currently employed in Zele be transferred to Wetteren or will they be assigned to another court?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u22	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, as I have already said in response to Mr Van Vaerenbergh's question, I am pleased that we were able to land just before Christmas with the first phase of the plan for the peace process. This represents an important step towards a more modern justice system. In this first phase it has been decided to centralize the seat of the canton of Wetteren-Zele in Wetteren. The first phase was about the double and triple cantons. The choice of centralisation took into account different criteria such as the workload, the location, the state and the area of the buildings and the preference of the local court of peace. Taking these elements into account, a choice of Lawmaking was logical. The building at Wetteren is owned by the federal state, the building at Zele is owned by the municipality. A redistribution of cantons based on objective criteria is part of the third and final phase. For this, I take your suggestion with me in the exercise. No shift of staff is planned at this stage. In this case, this means that Zele's staff will be housed in Wetteren.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Like my colleague, I naturally support rationalisation. I didn't want to look bad and Lawrence is the logical choice when looking at the population, the number of files and so on. Historically, it has grown so that this was a canton, but in the future it doesn't have to be. We trust that you will take the suggestion to further the logical choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u24	Minister, parental deprivation is a disorder in children which occurs almost exclusively in conflicts surrounding parental authority. One parent can easily brainwash and manipulate the child in that situation, so the distance from the other parent is increasing and the child doesn't want to see the other parent anymore. Since the rejection is largely due to the influence of the beneficiary parent without abuse or neglect by the rejected parent, one speaks of parental deprivation. I asked you a written question in March 2015. You said at that time that it is not obvious to map the number of PAS children or children with a parent alienation syndrome, because this requires a scientific study. Of course, that scientific study is not an exact science either. In addition, the Flemish Forum on Child Abuse has been commissioned to pay attention to the problem of divorces, in which PAS will be considered a special form of child abuse. You are committed to a multidisciplinary approach to child abuse, in which the VFK has been asked to make recommendations in this area. I'm looking forward to this. At the end of 2015, I also learned that you included guidelines in an updated letter, which are binding on all prosecutors. I quote: 'The new directives pay great attention to the serious consequences of a child's non-release. At the same time, it is stressed that failure to give a child constitutes an infringement of the child's right to maintain a personal relationship with one of his parents. From now on, the crime of non-release of a child will be catalogued under the concept of partner violence. These crimes will therefore be treated with the same seriousness as the other acts of violence, but their specific nature must be taken into account." Is this measure already in force, Minister? If so, do you have a view on the implementation and follow-up of this? If not, when will it enter into force? In what way were the judges trained in the matter? Will there be investment in training for experts for that particular condition? What guidance is provided for the recovery between the rejected parent and the child? Have you already received the recommendations and policy advice of the Flemish Forum on Child Abuse? If so, will that information be made available? If not, when is the policy advice expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u25	In fact, Mrs Uyttersprot, in the updated circular on partner violence of myself and the College of Attorneys General, COL 4/2006, which was distributed to the public in November last year, more attention is paid to the child's position in the context of intra-family violence. A separate chapter is devoted to the special cases of non-representation of children, family abandonment and leaving a child in a needy state. The provisions of the circular entered into force on 1 December 2015 and it is therefore too early to comment on their implementation and follow-up. As far as training is concerned, any magistrate dealing with such dossiers may follow a multidisciplinary basic training on intra-family violence at the Institute of Judicial Training or IGO. The reference magistraat receives a specific continuing training. However, the restoration of the relationship between the child and the disowned parent remains a difficult issue. Often the relationship is so distorted that normal understanding is no longer possible without a thorough help. This means that aid has an important role to play here, which is outside the jurisdiction of the courts. Justice can only refer here to the competent services, but early intervention can, of course, help to prevent a derailed situation and that is better than cure. The Flemish Forum Child Abuse, the so-called VFK, to which you refer, is in its first year of operation. Through the arrondissemental councils Child abuse and a questioning the problem of fighting divorces emerged strongly. On 26 June 2015, the Flemish Forum on Child Abuse informed the Flemish Ministers of Education, Youth, Sport and Welfare, Health and Family, as well as the Federal Ministers of Home Affairs, Health and Justice. The comprehensive opinion will be very useful for further policy initiatives and consultations between the relevant policy levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The recommendations will be very important. I'm looking forward to it. During the interim period, however, there is still a major task for aid and also for justice. There are possibilities already, but there is hardly any prosecution in the event of a child's non-release, in the civil sphere, or in the case of family abandonment at a correctional level. I was able to figure that out from the numbers a while ago. That's a shame. It is a very good signal that such facts can now be clearly categorized in all courts as partner violence. There are also other possibilities of prosecution, which seem to have not yet been sufficiently followed up. We are looking forward to the opinions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u27	Question No 8263 by Mr Alain Top is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u28	Minister, the end of 2015 was marked by strikes and notice of strike in the prisons of the kingdom. They were intended to denounce the slow pace of negotiations between the unions, DG Prisons and your firm on, among other things, the lack of staff and the savings to be made. According to the Directorate-General of Prisons, the prison staff shortage is estimated at 480 full-time equivalent jobs, or 5 per cent. It seems that constructive meetings have been held between the unions and your firm. Proposals would have been made and a series of commitments made, such as flexibility grants, uniforms and staff enhancements. The unions had described the last meeting as constructive, although they also noted that progress still needed to be made in other areas. Working groups have also been set up on absenteeism, the security corps and training. The guaranteed minimum service is still under discussion. It is true that since my question was tabled, I have found that the unions have expressed themselves again by setting out a series of questions that require additional work. They asked for a new meeting with you and your firm. I therefore take this opportunity to add to my initial questions a request for development that takes account of these recent events. What is the status of the discussions? What do you intend to do about the various points raised? Apart from this, do you confirm the staffing deficit figures given by the DG? If they are not correct, do you have any other data? Can you detail the commitments made? What's wrong with the unions? What are the goals, compositions and timelines of the working groups? Will their findings be made public or communicated to the members of our committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u29	Mr Vanden Burre, as far as the staff figures for DG PPE are concerned, we cannot speak of a deficit. The government agreement provides for a 10% savings on the staff budget by the end of the legislature. This economy is done in stages. For 2015, I got an exception. Instead of 4%, DG PPE had to save 1.5%. Staff costs are monitored on an ongoing basis. Any final movement of staff – promotion, recruitment, retirement – or any entry into service of contractual staff must be submitted prior to the advice of the Finance Inspectorate. This institution must check whether there is any margin for this movement this year and the following year. Throughout 2015, I was unable to recruit from DG PPE, with the exception of 20 recruitments for the security corps and 20 recruitments for supervisory staff, due to the negative outlook. On 16 December 2014, together with the trade union representatives, I set up a "rationalization" working group to achieve the 10% economy and to ensure that, at the same time, all tasks continue to be carried out in prisons. A reorganization is necessary to ensure that the same tasks are carried out with fewer staff. I'll give you a few numbers. As of 11 January 2016, the staff of DG PPE assigned to surveillance included 6,830 full-time equivalents. On 9 January 2015, the strength was 7,136. There is a difference of 306 between the two. This is not yet enough to achieve the target 10% economy. It is urgent to make the necessary adjustments to the working methods in order to maintain proper functioning. On 21 December 2015, I made the following commitments to the unions. I undertook to submit as soon as possible the draft ministerial decree amending the ministerial decree of 24 September 1998 regulating the granting of an allowance for irregular benefits to FPS Justice staff members to the Finance Inspectorate in order to obtain its positive opinion, in order to be able to grant the flexibility bonus. The President of the FPS Justice and the Director General PPE undertake to amend the working regulations for prisons in order to integrate the midday half hour break into the real working time for supervisory staff, technical staff and nurses. Implementation will take place as soon as this Ministerial Order comes into effect. My third commitment relates to the budget for uniforms, as presented on 15 December 2015 and reflected in the minutes of the meeting on that date. This commitment will be respected by the authority. The mutation cycle will be carried out in phases from 1 February 2016. Within the framework of the supplementary budget for the fight against terrorism and deradicalization, 54 statutory members of the supervisory staff are actually requested. On December 16, 2014, I set up seven working groups: - backpacking, past leave and absenteeism; - leave prior to retirement; - at the start of the evaluation of Protocol 351: discussions on the guaranteed service; - rationalisation of the organisation of working methods (working method, modernisation of buildings, fight against overpopulation, including Tilburg, differentiation between the various prisons); - training (including basic training, proposals for an additional period of 3 to 6 months); - fixed-term contracts; - security corps. All working groups met several times last year and some have made good progress. For example, the working group on fixed-term contracts has finished because each CSD has become a CDI. The "Pre-Pension Leave" Working Group has almost completed its activities as a draft Royal Order signed by the Ministers of Justice and Pensions is now in the review stage for agreement with the Ministers of Budget and Public Service. Next, this will be the formal negotiation stage in the Sectors Committee. An exact timing was not imposed so as not to put unnecessary pressure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u30	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. As far as the last elements are concerned, you have not fully responded. We will follow the progress of negotiations with the various unions following the announcement made yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u31	Mr Minister, I do not want to make a habit of it, but this written question has been converted into an oral one because I would like to get the figures. I've been waiting for it for a while. In short, it is about the evolution of the number of new Belgians and the loss of Belgian nationality. As you know, there are two naturalization procedures. One of them runs here in the Chamber, in a separate committee. The second procedure is carried out through the municipal administration or the local office. In addition, I had a number of questions. How many persons applied for Belgian nationality in 2015? Can you give the figures for the different years starting in 2011? What nationality are those who have applied for Belgian nationality? How many applications were rejected and for what reason did this happen? What procedure did this happen? What nationality did they have before they got the Belgian? How many persons retained their original nationality on top of the Belgian nationality obtained? So how many people got a double nationality?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u32	Mrs Hufkens, in order to respond to your written questions Nos 432 and 560, my administration has already made several enquiries concerning the existence of judgments and judgments which have issued a declaration of revocation for the period 2012 to 2015, on the basis of Articles 23, § 1 and 23/1, § 1 of the Belgian Code of Nationality. In order to have complete information on the data you requested, my administration also had to contact the competent judicial authorities. My administration itself does not have this statistical information and must always question the competent judicial authorities. As soon as the information is in my possession, I will provide you with my answer to your written questions already mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u33	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u34	Mrs Hufkens, the first group of questions you ask me, will look at the figures on the applications submitted to obtain Belgian nationality. I cannot provide you with statistical data on this because the figures are not kept in a global way. However, there are figures on the acquisition of Belgian nationality. They are maintained by the services of the National Registry, which are under the General Directorate of Institutions and Population of the Home Office, and for naturalisations by the Naturalization Committee of the Chamber of Representatives. I can tell you that the figures of the National Register and the Naturalization Commission show that a total of 26 238 nationality acquisitions have taken place in 2015. The observation date of these figures is 9 January 2016 and 8 January 2016 respectively. My administration has requested the other data you requested from the competent services, but since not all the data is yet fully available and their processing takes a long time, I cannot answer your specific question today to split up all the data according to the type of procedure. I shall, however, give you an answer to that in the context of your written question No. 431. I can already give you an overview for the years 2011 to 2014 of, on the one hand, the figures for naturalisations and, on the other hand, the figures for the other types of nationality acquisition, broken down according to the original nationality of the new Belgians. You will find this information in two separate tables, which I will present to you. I cannot answer your question about the preservation of the original nationality of the new Belgians because neither the National Register nor the Committee for Naturalizations keeps that data.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u35	Minister, it seems that it is not so easy to obtain the data. So I'm waiting in suspense for the other answers. The question has been on the pipeline for almost a year now, so I hope it can progress a bit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u36	Mrs Hufkens, you have another question. 8293 on the withdrawal of Belgian nationality?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u37	That has already been said, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u38	There was some confusion, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u39	You know, Minister, that the government agreement provides for an adjustment of the procedure for recognising the status of statelessness, with a centralisation at the level of the judicial district. It was agreed in the framework of the government negotiations that partial specialisation should be achieved. This should enable the applications to be completed within a reasonable period of time, which could also lead to the specialisation of the magistrates concerned. Today there is a great deal of diversity in the way applications are dealt with and in the time limits within which the various courts deal with applications for the status of statelessness. In certain cases which have come to my attention, Minister, people sometimes have to wait up to two years or more. This is not about a personal dossier, but someone of Scottish origin, who has been in our country for more than fifteen years and has become stateless for some reason, does not touch nationality. That person's got a procedure going on right now. That procedure has been going on for more than two years. Fortunately, such cases of statelessness are not numerous, but they are. If one finds that these procedures last one, two or three years, then that is poignant, because in the meantime those people cannot live their lives. They're stuck with all kinds of stuff. There's an agreement in the coalition agreement. I know that, especially in recent months, there have been many other priorities. You have had to make a great deal of effort in this respect, but I would like to know what is happening today in the reform of the procedure for recognising the status of statelessness. What legislative initiatives are needed for this? When will you come to Parliament with this? What stage are the initiatives at? Or should they not come to Parliament? What's your status?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u40	Mrs Lanjri, my administration is currently preparing a preliminary draft law on various provisions relating to family law matters, inserting an Article 622a into the Judicial Code. This new provision provides for a centralisation of the power of recognition as a stateless person at the family court sitting at the seat of the court of appeal in whose jurisdiction the applicant is domiciled or resides, or failing that, where the applicant is situated. In this way, the contenteux is regrouped at a single family court in the jurisdiction of the court of appeal, leading to a greater specialisation of the magistrates involved. The aim is to submit this preliminary draft law to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible and then to the Council of State, so that it can be submitted to the Chamber one of the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u41	Thank you, Minister. I'll follow up on this. I hope that the preliminary draft will receive a positive opinion from the Council of State and that we can approve it here as soon as possible. It is not because it is about a limited group that these people have no rights. I therefore hope that we will be able to do so quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u42	Mr President, Minister, you know that unaccompanied minors arrive every year in our country and in many other European countries, without any kind of support from parents or family members. In our country they are immediately assigned a guardian to monitor their procedure, the choice of procedure, their enrolment at school and so on. The guardian certainly does not have the role to give shelter to those concerned or to provide bed, bath and bread; this is done by our services. The task of the guardian is to take care of the administrative part and to seek a sustainable solution for the younger. In the past, we have had problems with a lack of guardians, but especially now that the number of unaccompanied minors has increased enormously during the refugee crisis of the past year, the problem has become even greater. Three weeks ago I paid a visit to the Foreign Affairs Office and I found out that eight hundred young people have no guardian. Now, three weeks later, it even turns out to be about nine hundred young people without guardians. I know you're working on a solution and that's exactly what my questions are about. What is the government doing to address the problem of lack of guardians? I hope that there will also be cooperation with civil society, with organisations active in the field. I am thinking of refugee work, Caritas, the Red Cross, but also of certain partners in the region, such as Foster Care Flanders. They are already taking care of unaccompanied minors. So I think those partners should definitely be involved. Are there sufficient additional resources to ensure that the additional guardians, if any, are effectively able to provide the reimbursement of expenses to which they are entitled? That's not much, but they should be able to get it. When will the problem actually be solved? Can it be said that the problem of backwardness for 900 young people can be resolved quickly? In the coming months, the number of unaccompanied minors may continue to increase or certainly not decrease. So the need remains. What solution are you providing today? What do you plan for the future? How long do the nine hundred young people last on average without a guardian? Or rather, what is the maximum time limit for those without guardians? After all, the average does not always say very much. Is that a matter of a few months or a few weeks? What is the age of the youngest unaccompanied minor without guardian? Do you have the budgeted amount for the additional costs involved in the increase in applications? Do you have sufficient resources for these guardians and for the Guardian Service? Finally, here's what I'm gonna say. At the beginning of last year, my bill was passed to protect unaccompanied minors even better. For example, the possibility for minors to initiate two procedures at the same time, namely both the procedure giving entitlement to specific protection for unaccompanied minors and the application for asylum. I have the impression that this possibility, which only exists for a year, is not so well known on the ground. The guardians must accompany unaccompanied minors in this, but are the guardians informed of this change of law and of this possibility? Have you taken initiatives to this end? The guardians receive regular refresher training from the Voogdij department or from other services, but is this possibility included in the in-service training package? Do you have an idea of the number of unaccompanied minors who have already started the two procedures? For many young people it is often best to start the two procedures simultaneously.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u43	Mr President, in the middle of 2015, the Voogdij service had at its disposal 136 Dutch speakers and 105 French speakers working with the 241 guardians, which at that time was ample enough to assign all unaccompanied minors to a guardian. However, as you know, the number of young people has increased unseen in the second half of 2015. Between 2008 and 2014, the average number of reports from foreign young people was eight per day. In 2015, this rapidly increased to 15 reports a day and sometimes even, in the last months of the year, to 40 reports a day. My services have therefore immediately increased the number of guardians through selections and 261 recognised guardians are now active. Selections for the recognition of new guardians are continued systematically and intensively. However, the quality of the guardian remains essential in recruitment and, before taking custody, the guardian must follow a five-day training course organised by the Voogdij Department. I can tell you that on the Dutch side 46 new guardians already attend this training and on the French side 25 people. This means that they can be involved in the exercise of custody in the very short term. A further 70 selection interviews and a number of information sessions for new candidates are planned in the course of the following weeks. It was also agreed with the associations with which my services have concluded a protocol for custody, namely Caritas, the Red Cross Flanders, Seso and EXIL, that they would employ even more guardians. The number of guardians employed by one of these associations, while exercising 25 guardians per month, has increased to 16 in recent years. It is planned that they will recruit additional six full-time guardians, for which the FPS Justice will bear the full costs. Efforts are therefore being made to assign some of the young people a guardian over the next few weeks. Depending on the inflow of the number of new young people and the recruitment of new guardians by the Voogdij department, the term of appointment will vary. Finally, I would like to inform you that an additional budget was allocated to the Voogdij service to deal with the situation. More precisely, in September 2015, the Council of Ministers approved, at my request, the recruitment of six new staff for the Voogdij department and the allocation of additional operating resources for the payment of guardians and interpreters, including for the recruitment of professional guardians by the aforementioned associations. On the basis of the final figures of 2015 and, where appropriate, on the basis of the continuing high inflow, it will be necessary to assess whether additional resources will be necessary. The Voogdij service clearly informed all guardians of the possibility of cumulation of the protection procedures in the course of 2015. This is also included in the five-day training of the new guardians.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u44	Minister, you have not yet answered the question of how old the youngest unaccompanied underage stranger is. Can you still tell me this information? You mentioned the efforts made to find additional guardians, and you said that during the next few weeks some of the young people will be effectively assigned a guardian. That's a good thing, but when will the problem be solved? Over the next few weeks, will all those who do not currently have a guardian have one, or will the problem continue to exist and will it continue to grow? That remains my concern. Is sufficient to ensure that no person is without a guardian?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u45	I would be surprised if you thought I wasn't doing everything I could to ensure that every young person was assigned a guardian. That's what I was trying to answer, but neither you nor I have a visual on the influx. As far as payment is concerned, you are wrongly concerned. I believe my cabinet has told you that before.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u46	Minister, the figures also show that you are really committed to eliminating the backlog, but it is not clear to me yet. No one has a glass ball. We cannot predict how many newcomers there will be and how many unaccompanied minors will still be coming in, but we should still have to take care of it from Parliament, if we can do something about it for a solution for those nine hundred young people who now have no guardian. Your services they are fully engaged in finding additional guardians, but will that suffice to effectively help the nine hundred concerned all to a guardian? In a few weeks' time, I may ask you again about a state of affairs. Then we will see what else we can do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u47	I told you we're recruiting 140 new guardians. If you divide 900 by 140, you will have six or seven people per guardian.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u48	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u49	Mr President, Minister, I have already had the opportunity to question you about the situation of justice in Nivelles. Things don't go according to the information that's come to us. This time, the president of the Nivelles Labour Court decided to postpone all the collective debt settlement hearings scheduled to take place between January 1 and March 31. This is unfortunate because behind these files there are often people in distress. The collective debt settlement procedure allows anyone in financial difficulties to ask the court for protection to continue living a life of human dignity through a financing plan proposed by a mediator. This decision is motivated by a lack of human and financial resources. Indeed, the framework is only half-filled. The lack of staff to handle the cases has led the president of the court to take this step so that his service is not completely engorged. The lack of staff is also a problem facing the Court of First Instance. Currently, of the 27 judges planned, only 22 are effective. In the civil court, a three-judge chamber had to be reduced to a single judge. This solution was found so as not to have to postpone hearings to several months. Within the family court, the three judges are working hard to continue holding hearings within three months. The decision taken by the President of the Nivelles Labour Court temporarily resolves the problem of overwork and reduced staffing, but unfortunately the problem is only delayed. Minister, will there be any means available by March to address the delays? What steps will be taken to ensure that the President of the Court of First Instance does not resolve to take a decision similar to that of his counterpart, the President of the Labour Court?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u50	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, the judiciary in the Walloon Brabant Labour Court is fully staffed. Therefore, there are no vacancies. The judiciary at the Court of First Instance of Walloon Brabant is 27. Twenty-five magistrates are appointed, a magistrate has been appointed to the enforcement court in Brussels. Twenty-four magistrates are present, or 89 per cent of the staff. On 27 October 2015, a vacant seat was published in the Belgian Moniteur. The Supreme Council of Justice will make its proposal no later than 8 March. The Nivelles Labour Court has a staff cadre of 17 full-time equivalents. Currently, 12.4 full-time equivalents are on duty. The framework provides for six Registrars, four of whom are currently present (three staff plus one delegation). In the meantime, a vacant office of Registrar has been published in the Belgian Monitor, bringing the total in the near future to five (four staff plus one delegation) out of six. However, two assistants will leave in the short term, one of whom will be transferred for medical reasons. The situation with regard to staff is therefore not optimal. The staff position at the Walloon Brabant Court of First Instance is 48 full-time equivalents. Currently, 40.8 full-time equivalents are present. The framework includes 25 Registrars, of whom 23.8 full-time equivalents are currently present (18.8 staff and 5 delegations). Four positions of Registrars to be filled have been published. According to the information obtained from my administration, all candidates are external. The Chief Registrar requested an extension of the current delegations, but no new delegation. Here the situation is much better. As far as the Labour Court is concerned, I should like to point out that the first President of the Brussels Court of Appeal and the Chief Registrar, each within his competence, have important instruments to remedy the shortage of clerks, in particular on the basis of Articles 328, 329, 330ter, §§ 1 and 2 of the Judicial Code. At my request, however, my administration has already cooperated with the College of Courts and Courts. It was agreed to request the Finance Inspector to be able to award four court personnel contracts, temporary, level D, for case management.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u51	Minister, thank you for your answers. As you can see yourself, the frame is far from being filled in Nivelles. I invite you to make the necessary efforts to complete it, because magistrates work in a tense flow in a difficult atmosphere. The needs are crying out. I appeal to your responsibility in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u52	Mr Crusnière, I would like to say that the government has decided to reduce the workforce to 90%. So I can't fill in the executives at 100%.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u53	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u54	I'm honest, I'm giving an honest answer. You're insisting on something I don't know how to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u55	Minister, on 1 January, the infamous book written by Adolf Hitler, Mein Kampf, entered the public domain. There have been a lot of gestures, especially in the last few hours, with respect to my position, which I would like to point out to you. I hope that the original version of this book, as published in the 1920s and 1930s, will be banned. In my view, this publication would fall within the scope of the Act of 31 December 1981 to punish certain acts inspired by racism and xenophobia. I am thinking in particular of article 21 of the Criminal Code, which I would like to remind you of: "Anyone who, in one of the circumstances mentioned in article 444 of the Criminal Code, disseminates ideas based on racial superiority or hatred shall be punished by imprisonment for a period of one month to one year and a fine of fifty to one thousand euros or by one of those penalties only". I'm saying "same as published in the 20s and 30s." However, something else would be an educationally supervised publication, and not only – it is a nuance of size – by historians, as some countries do, but by a much larger committee of experts – explaining history in relation to this book is a difficult and perilous exercise and insufficient. This committee would be composed of sociologists, psychologists and scientists who could explain why, at some point, someone could seduce a nation and shape its collective psychology so that a people would mark history in a dramatic way. And for good reason, Minister, since Mein Kampf is the foundation of Nazism, driven by the obsession with "racial purity" and hatred towards Jews and "lower peoples". It is known that this book is at the origin of the massacre in the concentration camps of more than ten million people, including six million exterminated Jews, but also political prisoners, gypsies, Poles, Russians, disabled people. In short, the total horror of camps, medical experiments and gas chambers! Mein Kampf is the setting up of an organized, industrial extermination – one might say – unprecedented, of millions of human beings. Mein Kampf is Europe which has been set on fire and blood for six long years. This book is the quintessence of anti-Semitism. He advocates a deadly vision of racial superiority. It is a carrier of hatred, war, racism. In October 2015, the president of the Belgian League against Anti-Semitism recorded an increase in reports of anti-Semitic acts. I will not go back to all the incidents that characterized the year 2015. Everyone knows them. Minister, those who ignore history are condemned to relive it. Seventy years later, have we forgotten the atrocities of Nazism, the 60 million deaths of World War II resulting from the madness of a regime, to the point of not predicting or anticipating the entry into the public domain of this book? Of course, everyone knows that the book is downloading without difficulty. But, since January 1, 2016, one element has changed the situation. Indeed, since that date, anyone, any association, any publisher can publish this book, without permission – in the case of the Land of Bavaria – and adhere to the principles advocated by Mein Kampf. A political decision must be made, Minister. I personally believe that the prohibition of Mein Kampf as Hitler wrote is appropriate. It would be irresponsibility and serious political negligence to allow this book to be bought tomorrow, as we buy a comic book, all the more so as it undeniably falls within the scope of the law, and more precisely the article which I have read to you. In doing so, my question is simple: what will be your action in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u56	Minister, the arrival of Mein Kampf in the public domain is obviously not good news. This terrible book is a breviary of hatred and extermination, especially of Jews. Do we, however, have the means to organise the censorship of this work? I am a little surprised by the advertisement made by the MR at this release of Mein Kampf in the public domain because, in reality, he advertised a book that did not deserve so much. There is a need to be extremely careful and vigilant about this publication. I read on social media that this book already exists in the public domain. It seems that we can even buy it from the FNAC, that we can download it without difficulty, etc. What matters is the fight against anti-Semitism and racism. It must be verified that the spread of ideas as terrifying as those that Adolf Hitler may have had does not get any more publicity. How can we fight against these ideas? If it is a question of censoring the work, it must be completely censored by avoiding the possibility of obtaining it on the Internet or in a particular bookshop. Should it be possible only to allow scientificly or historically framed editions? For whom would such works be intended? Should we not strengthen civic education courses and the fight against anti-Semitism and other forms of racism? Should we not question the organisations involved in this issue - veterans, representative organizations of the Jewish community or the Centre for Equal Opportunities, which gives opinions in terms of racism? I want to be careful and avoid giving the illusion that one would be effective in opposing the dissemination of a work which, moreover, is easily found in the public domain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u57	Mr President, Mr Scourneau and Mr Dallemagne, my administration informs me that Belgium has never known an explicit ban on the sale of Mein Kampf and that its possession is not punishable either. However, if this despicable book were offered for sale or otherwise, prosecution could be initiated on the basis of the Anti-Discrimination Act of 10 May 2007 to combat certain forms of discrimination and the Anti-Racism Act of 30 July 1981 to punish certain acts inspired by racism and xenophobia, both of which prohibit incitement to hatred. Article 22 of the Anti-Discrimination Act is relevant in the first place. The criteria protected in this Act are age, sexual orientation, marital status, birth, property, religious, philosophical, political or trade union beliefs, language, current or future health status, disability, physical or genetic characteristics or social origin. Article 20 of the Anti-Racism Act can also be applied. The criteria protected by this Act are different. These are nationality, so-called race, skin colour, ancestry, national or ethnic origin. The application of these laws requires the presence of a special dolce. There must be incitement to hatred and violence against a community or person with violation of one of the protected criteria. Incitement must be of such a nature that third parties are motivated to foster feelings of hatred towards the person, group or community concerned or their members. Finally, the dissemination of ideas based on racial superiority or racial hatred could also give rise to a specific complaint on the basis of article 21 of the Anti-Racism Law. The legislation prohibits incitement to hatred. It therefore does not prohibit certain opinions but acts, behaviours or attitudes that use language as a means to provoke violence. Two elements, the author's intention and the context of the statements, determine the strength of a statement, the ability to convince a public, to keep it under its control or to actually incite it to commit a particular act. It is then up to the judge to assess. My administration informed me that it did not have precedents for this book.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answer. First of all, no one can deny that this book, based on its history, is a true incitement to hatred. I reminded you just now of the facts that show that we are facing the most criminal publication in history. We have a peculiarity in relation to a situation that could be quite different. We know the book, its content and its effects. We know from now on that this book is in contradiction with the two laws you have mentioned. So we cannot have a debate at the parliamentary level that would resolve this issue? In other words, do you envisage, Mr. Minister, holding this debate and, from now on, regulating the possibility, in the most cruel way possible, of this work?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u59	Minister, I have taken note that we have the legislative arsenal to fight against such a work if people want to do so. It is clear that if this book is on the Internet, the same legal provisions are valid. It is not because it is an electronic medium that they would not be, Minister! From the moment a website publishes books that incite hatred, it must also be possible to prohibit them. Unfortunately, we are faced with global means of distribution that allow such works to be broadcast in any country in the world: 80 million copies of Mein Kampf have already been sold by that date. I hear that the edition published in Germany is already exhausted, although it has not even been physically deposited in bookstores. What is important to me is the effectiveness of the fight against anti-Semitism. Beyond the possible fight, I want to be careful and I very much hope that the Centre for Equal Opportunities will take up this matter for which it is competent. It may give opinions on civil rights. The authorities representing the Jewish community are being questioned; I would also find it interesting to interview veterans. As it stands, I do not see how we can physically organize the censorship of this work, but am satisfied with the fact that we have the appropriate legislative arsenal to be able, if necessary, to combat such ideas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u60	Mr President, Minister, a few days ago, with three kings if I remember correctly, some organisations in the care sector and the elderly sector and also in the legal world responded to the application of the new legislation on incompetence. It is about regulations that we have really worked on with all parties. There was a lot of discussion about it. It was particularly important that this new legislation had a new perspective. On the one hand, we wanted to comply with the UN Convention on the Protection of Persons. In my opinion, there were also two main lines of action. Firstly, in addition to the custody or protection of the goods, which was traditionally known, protection of the person was also defined. Secondly, we wanted to start from the skills of people, from what the person concerned can still do, and we decided that a supplementary regime could be given. That is not easy, because it would also require a mental change in one piece. I must say that I have had the pleasure, perhaps just like other Members of this House, of giving information about this in various places and also listening to it. I have met judges of the peace, and I would like to stress this: those who really took this issue to heart and still take it to good effect. They did have questions, such as how to work or how to apply them. In this context, they have also followed further training. I have also referred people whose parents are beginning to demente, to the peace court, and in these cases the court of peace effectively goes on a home visit to talk to the people concerned. I would certainly like to underline that. The letter from the various organisations shows that there are still several thorny points. A description of concrete situations has the advantage of highlighting several aspects that deserve attention. I read and hear that this protection is apparently being transferred fairly easily and systematically to professional directors or lawyers. It is often referred to in the motivation that these people need legal knowledge. I do not recall that we in committee have ever said that the directors must have the necessary legal knowledge to include a regime, even a business one. Apparently that is now included in the argument. Another argument is that there is no time and too much is expected. In the past legislature, a number of changes have been made which reduce the activities of a number of peace courts, such as the urgent and provisional measures, and the reference to the court of commerce for small claims between traders. We thought that way more space and time could be made available to the peace judges. The threshold would also be rather high. I'll easily make the comparison with custody of the children. There is not always the question of whether parents are legally qualified. It is logical that people are concerned about neutrality and care, but I find it rather difficult to allow a large shift to the professional regime, especially because we had hoped for the organisations of users or family members of those vulnerable persons. They have also played a very active role in the preparation of the law. At the time, Luc Goutry and Tim Wuyts participated in discussions and made a substantive contribution to the guidance and training of the people. Apparently, those signals aren't recognized. I think, Minister, that we need to look further at various elements. Should judges be more motivating? Should we strengthen training, give more space to organisations and give a clear place to support family members? We also asked questions and didn't solve them. I also don't always get data on the number of regiments per person. You may not have that at your disposal. How many regiments are there? Can we make a division between family and professional regimes? Mr. Secretary, what signals did you get about that? Did you get any questions before the letter? Can agreements be made, or has already been made, to ensure greater personal protection and also to make more room for family rule, which was the intention of this law? There was also going to be an informative brochure. The King Baudouin Foundation has provided information on this. Anything else that could happen? How can the choice of high-quality directors, with a focus on family directors, be strengthened? Are legislative initiatives needed for this or are there other slopes? It was agreed that the law would be reviewed. Time would be taken to bring the law into force. I seem to recall that we had proposed an evaluation after eight years. Can this period be shortened? Is that necessary? In what way can we deal with this with the intention of making this law stronger again, which was originally intended?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u61	Mr Minister, my question is similar. The Law of 17 March, which is in force from 1 September 2014, on reform of the incompetence arrangements and establishing a new protection status consistent with human dignity, aims to make the intended vulnerable persons more independent. As has just been said, it concerns the mentally elderly, the mentally ill, people with severe disabilities and so on. This can be done by giving them more involvement in the choice of residence, care and patient rights, but also in terms of their money and their possible property. The law had in mind to put a stop to the patronizing and making decisions above the heads of these people. In practice, a number of suggestions are now being made to optimise the ratio legis of this very recent law. You have also included this in your 2016 policy paper: better accessibility for citizens, reducing unnecessary workload, making models more user-friendly, an information brochure and the like of the FPS Justice Department. The three-king letter of 6 January 2016, signed by a number of organisations, also states that in some cantons there would be a misinterpretation and that decisions of peace judges would go against the spirit of this law, which is precisely intended to protect vulnerable persons and improve their situation rather than the opposite. I have a number of questions about that. During the start-up period the family often has contact with the general practitioner, the hospital, the OCMW or the home care. Often the subject of governance has already been discussed in consultation with these bodies or individuals. There is a great need for information on this subject, not just at the Registrys. After all, that is not the first channel that people need to visit. Do you have a view of the extent to which correct, comprehensible and unambiguous information is available outside the Registry? Is that information the same through the different channels, social and medical? The law provides for a number of models for certain financial transactions. I am not going to list them here, they are in my question and you have read them. Creating a letter to a judge is not always obvious. All right, we don't expect these people to be legally competent, but that's not always obvious. Are these models easily available? Are they applied uniformly by the cantons? Is there a website available or will there soon be one on which they are offered and on which they may also give practical examples with which people can associate themselves? We have just talked about the merger of the peace courts. The recast will require a number of directors to address another canton or peace court. That doesn't have to be a problem in itself. On the contrary, when this is accompanied by standardisation of working methods, I believe that the transition for directors will often be easier. That's an assumption I'm making. Is it correct? Will the merger effectively make it simpler and more uniform for family directors? Finally, the planned evaluation is still far from being carried out. Since there are already signs that suggest that the law is not optimal, and because a number of changes have been made to the MR just before the summer recess, which was unanimously approved at the time, I believe that an early evaluation is appropriate. Have you set a timetable for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u62	Mr President, Mrs Becq, Mrs Uyttersprot, many citizens and associations have written to me about the problems involved in applying the new law. So I was already aware of the problem raised in this open letter. Following that, I transferred these concerns to the Supreme Court of Justice in December 2015. The High Council has confirmed to me that these will continue to be discussed at the next meeting of the Advisory and Investigation Committee. As I announced in my 2015 policy paper, I am fully committed to the improvement and proper implementation of the Law of 17 March 2013. In practice, a number of suggestions were made to improve the functioning of the law in the light of its spirit. These suggestions are currently being examined and will be incorporated into legislative work, so that the law is better aligned with practice, without affecting its spirit. An evaluation is therefore in fact already under way. Therefore, I do not think it is necessary to bring forward the assessment provided for in the law. Work is currently under way in consultation with all the actors involved on a number of royal decisions seeking to improve the implementation of the law, such as the Royal Decree on the costs and remuneration of directors. Consideration is also being given to compulsory training for magistrates. To improve the reception and guidance of vulnerable people, the website of the FOD is currently being made more user-friendly. Questions and answers explain what protection measures exist, how they work and how to apply for judicial protection. An information brochure, prepared by the King Baudouin Foundation and the FPS Justice Department, is also available on the website. This brochure is also distributed through other channels. As far as the quality of directors is concerned, I have already indicated that, in consultation with the Communities and all the actors concerned, I would like to draw up an appropriate framework for the performance of the director's duties. According to Article 497/1 of the Civil Code, the King may make the performance of the duties of director subject to certain conditions. Provision could therefore be made for compulsory training for professional directors. Consideration is also being given to better monitoring of the quality of the regimes. The function of director shall also be made more accessible to non-professionals. For example, models of accounting, report, petitions and medical certificate are made available on the website. The simplification of the law also examines whether there are issues that can be further simplified for the family administrator. As regards the standardisation of procedures at the Registry following the recasting of the peace courts, I can tell you that this will have little impact in the first phase of the recasting, but it will indeed be more efficient and uniform from the further stages.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u63	Mr President, Minister, I welcome your answer, but of course you did not expect otherwise. My question was not to bring forward the review deadline by law, but to take into account the reservations expressed. In addition to the other measures you are proposing, I am particularly excited because you are announcing that you will consult with the Communities to look at a specific regime for professional directors, because I think this is really important. I tried to do something about divorce mediation years ago, when I was still in the Flemish Parliament. This has never been possible, but training has been provided in practice and there are now colleges for this. This also means that this profession is being opened up, that more opportunities are being offered and that quality can be imposed, which is important. We must not only have legal knowledge, but we must also be able to deal with people, with the family. This allows for the sharing of trust and the family members themselves to have access to such training and guidance. It is important that peace judges give confidence to those who want to take on such a regime. With regard to the cost, I hear that you will make further adjustments to the royal decree. I have another question about pricing, but it is possible that the answer is also in the proposals. I hear that some regimes are lucrative and others are not, some take the brunt with the bump, depending on the directors. My question is also to think further about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u64	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I note that you take the suggestions to heart. You say that you will not evaluate the law in advance according to the letter of that law, but I think that we are in fact constantly evaluating laws here. Whether this evaluation is being carried out before or behind the scenes, I don't care if everything is being managed properly. In the meantime, I do not think there is any need for a legislative amendment to make it as simple and easy as possible for family directors, with all the means and models that can be made available. I do not think we should wait for that. That law has been in force since 1 September 2014, so we don't have to wait a year to make additional cases available. If these people's jobs can be facilitated, I think this is the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u65	Minister, the reason for this question is the report by the media that an FPC patient, after attacking an escort during the walk, would have been sent back to prison. Apparently, he was sent back to prison because the isolation cells were full, after several incidents had occurred that week. That's gonna raise a few questions. During the discussions on the FPC, on internment and so on, it emerged that interns or patients are not always asking for a care situation. Sometimes they prefer to be in prison, because it's less incriminating. That is why I would like to ask how this issue is being addressed. I understand that the FPC itself said it was a referral back to prison as a time-out, so not as a final situation. The intention was that the person concerned would return to the FPC. How is that policy implemented within an FPC? Are these motivating interventions, so that we can work in a positive way to guide those involved? I especially wonder what happens when patients don't want treatment. Is there room for them in the FPC or can't it be there? What's the place of those solitary cells in this whole thing? Are there certain conditions that must be met before someone is placed in an isolation cell? Is that a structural procedure in an FPC, so those cells are rapidly filling up? Have we agreed on that? Was this discussed during the call for tenders or were contractual provisions laid down? That is an important element in this whole issue. What's the status of the special longstay department? Are there any high-risk residents being recorded there? That's how I get to my last question. There was provision for a follow-up committee. What's the status there? Is this theme also on the agenda there, or isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u66	Minister, on Thursday 17 December, the incident as outlined by Mr Becq took place. A patient in the FPC used a self-fabricated knife to attack one of the carers and then went to a prison facility in time-out, because there were no isolation cells in the FPC. I will be brief, because I have already asked in plenary about the legal framework for interned persons who are temporarily returning to prison or who are released, who then mistreat and return. This is not foreseen for the time being, but the new internment law will probably cover this. However, we have not yet reached that stage. How many isolation cells does the FPC have? Are there any alternatives if the interned can neither go to isolation nor go to prison? To what extent has the new internment law been adapted to ensure smooth cooperation between the different FPC debt holders that will exist at that time? Will the new internment law meet this gap? How will this gap be addressed pending the entry into force of the new Internment Act?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u67	Incidents in the FPC of Ghent that are due to some form of loss of control, linked to the pathology of the interned, are in principle no reason to put interned from the FPC in a prison. Otherwise, it is when an incident is the result of a prepared, controlled and deliberate action affecting the integrity and security of the staff in such a way that a time-out is necessary. The FPC of Ghent, as a medium security centre in the concrete file referred to, advised the competent Commission for the Protection of Society to consider a temporary prison placement. It is the committee that, on the advice of the FPC, has put the person concerned back in prison. In the future, this interned can be put back in the FPC. In the event of an inability to adequately flow from an interned within the FPC of Ghent to the external care circuit or in the context of its social reintegration, the FPC must inform the CBM. It is up to this committee and in the future to decide on the appropriate residence situation and framework of the interns. As I have said on several occasions, I am setting up care units for interns, in consultation with my colleague, Mrs De Block, who are finding it difficult to find a place today, such as the group of long-stayers who present a high risk of recidivism. The long-stay facility in Les Marronniers will receive the first residents from this month. For the longstay in Bierbeek the opening date is scheduled for 1 April 2016. That the isolation cells were occupied because of several incidents is not confirmed by the responsible FPC. Since the opening of the FPC, at most four of the eight isolation cells were occupied at the same time. The health inspection of the Flemish Department of Welfare monitors the operation of the FPC on this point and also supervises the use of isolation measures. This inspection service did not detect any irregularities. Again, the FPC is a medium security forensic psychiatric center. When the new FPC becomes operational in Antwerp, it will first be investigated to what extent a transfer to the new FPC is possible, before placing an interned in a prison again. The FPC shall report on the basis of an activity report and a monthly survey of incidents to a follow-up committee which has been working for a long time. The last meeting of the Committee was held on 16 December 2015. In the PPIII draft, the repair of the law of 5 May 2014 is included. I will discuss these provisions with you during the course of this month. I do not have to explain in detail that interned persons who have been placed in the FPC in Ghent during the past year usually have a long way to go in other establishments or in prison. Many of them have more or less abandoned themselves and cling to the prison culture that they are unfortunately more than usual. In these cases, a pathway of pretherapy is necessary in order to make the internees mature in some sense. The motivation plays out fully from the moment the patient approaches the treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I think it is clear that more space will be available.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u69	Minister, I welcome your answer. If I understood correctly, it was mainly the nature of the incident that led to the measure of return to prison. As you say, it is not obvious. These are people who have often spent more time in prison than outside. They can now finally make use of the internment. These people have often also suffered detention damage, with the result that they prefer to stay in the familiar surroundings of the prison rather than go to an internment institution. I hope that measures will be taken to prevent patients from deliberately doing such things with the only prospect of returning to prison. That would ignore what the law intended, especially getting the interns out of prison and not to bring them back there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u70	Mr President, Minister, my colleague Eric Thiébaut has already asked you about this issue last December. However, I would like to return to you because it seems that no specific information has been transmitted to the management or staff of the prison since then. Many questions remained concerning both the potential reinforcements for this radicalized wing and the training that guards should take in order to be able to best supervise those detainees whose arrival was originally scheduled for early this year. However, it would appear that it is postponing in June. Minister, can you confirm that the inmate's arrival has been postponed? Can you tell me if any additional guards will be assigned to the prison? As a reminder, there was a strike last December. The guards had demonstrated to denounce their difficult working conditions. Can you also tell me whether the trainings for the guards have already started and briefly describe their content? Finally, what about the recruitment of the nine Islamic advisers? I also remember that a first meeting with the unions took place in mid-December. Can you confirm that? Have you been able to reassure the officials and workers of Ittre Prison who wanted some information on the reception of radicalized prisoners?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u71	The arrival of radicalized prisoners in prison is not postponed. There are already radicalized inmates in this institution who have not yet been specifically screened and are therefore not yet in the section. As already stated in the commission of 2 December 2015, radicalized prisoners must undergo a screening carried out by the central psycho-social service of the Directorate-General of Prisons in consultation with all the actors concerned. The central psycho-social sector will send a report with advice to the regional management via the local management. The final decision on placement in the Specialized Section will be the responsibility of the Regional Directorate. For the time being, no radicalized inmate is in a special section for deradicalized prisoners either in Ittre or in Hasselt. The Prisons Branch has confirmed to us that this would still be the case for the month of January. Training has already begun. In Ittre, eleven guards are in the process of training. Twelve more volunteers will complete the training during this month. The training consists of 3 blocks: a first block of 4 days, a second one of 2 days and an additional block of 1 day. The first block will be completed on January 29 for all relevant groups of agents. Its content addresses the knowledge of the plan of action in the field of radicalization, the concepts necessary for understanding the phenomenon of radicalization, situating radicalism and radicalization in a context of global understanding, having a basic knowledge of the precepts of Islam, understanding the concepts and processes leading to radicalization and which can lead to a transition to act, knowing the meaning of various symbols linked to radical movements. This first training block ends in a very practical way with exercises carried out in the simulation wing of the training centre with actors themselves. The second training block has as its theme non-violent communication according to Rosenberg's theory. Staff will improve their communication skills and learn how to manage conflicts that arise in an efficient and appropriate manner. For the third block, an additional day of continuous training is planned in 2016 but its exact content will have to be determined on the basis of an initial evaluation of the progress of the work in the field. With regard to the recruitment of the nine additional Islamic Councillors, I requested the approval of the Ministers of Budget and Public Service on 8 January 2016. In principle, the Finance Inspectorate did not object. On 23 December 2015, a basic consultation committee was held for Ittre Prison. It was agreed that the rationalization exercise should first be finalized on 7 January and that the position of the unions on the commitments made by the authority on 21 December 2015 was expected. Finally, as part of the deradicalization process, I have made a commitment to strengthen prison staff with an additional 54. For the details of these commitments, I refer to the answer to Question No 8323 by your colleague Mr Vanden Burre.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u72	Minister, thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u73	Question No 8298 by Mr Goffin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u74	Minister, I have already had the opportunity to ask you in plenary about the particular situation of the inmates' entourage who are visiting in prison. There are two situations. Either the entourage has a positive effect and helps the police and the services by telling them that a person detained from their entourage is in the process of radicalization. On the contrary, the entourage unfortunately increases the risk of radicalisation through its visits. Minister, as part of the plan to combat radicalisation, have you taken into account these people, whether positive or negative? Are entourage visits subject to a specific protocol? Once visits to the entourage have taken place, as defined in the context of my question in plenary, what services do they receive this information?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u75	Mr. Chairman, it is true that the inmate's entourage, first and foremost his family, plays or can play an important role in the deradicalization process. This is also the case during and after detention. Moreover, maintaining contact with family members who have a favourable influence is useful for the reclassification of all detainees and to prevent them from reoffending. Unfortunately, any detainee is not open to relations with his or her family. The action plan certainly pays attention to this aspect. However, the Committee notes that the relationship with family members of detainees is within the competence of the Communities. Prisons facilitate and support such initiatives. For radicalized prisoners, visit authorizations often require a delicate balance between security requirements, the need for social contacts and the potential positive impact of the latter. The Prison Administration Principles Act and the legal statutes of prisoners make a distinction between family members and other persons. In principle, family members still have the right to visit unless individualized indications suggest that security could be compromised. In practice, it is checked whether the visit of third parties is timely and can take place in safe conditions. If abuses or incidents occur during the visit, the visitor will no longer be admitted. In order to assess the opportunity, information may be requested from the security services. Information on visits or visitors may also be transmitted to the security and judicial services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic306x.u76	Minister, thank you for your answer.
