ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u2	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the standing assembly]] Good colleagues, France was again hit by a major attack on 14 July. Words are actually inadequate to express our dismay. Such a cowardly and barbaric act seems to us simply unimaginable, in all senses. Terrorists swerve back for nothing in their attempt to disrupt our society, they grab at all means, even the most bewildering. Because of this unspeakable infamous act, numerous families, their loved ones and friends, who had come together to celebrate the French national holiday, are now broken by grief. For it is again to our way of life, but also in particular to the democratic values of the French Republic celebrated on the day of the National Feast that terrorism is taken. We must therefore come together more than ever to defend the values of freedom, equality and fraternity that form the very foundation of our democratic societies. The continuous adaptation and strengthening of our counter-terrorism machinery is also a top priority. We must help the countries affected by terrorism and we must work more closely together so that our nations can combat more effectively the horror of terror, which causes fear and horror to our people and threatens the stability of our democracies. I conveyed to the President of the French National Assembly our deep compassion for the families, relatives and friends of the victims and our full support in the painful ordeal that France is going through again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every week attacks mourn families around the world. Last Thursday, the murderous madness of a man plunged the city of Nice into horror. Of course, again, we are wiped out and shocked by the cruel images of this new drama. Once again, it is the freedom to enjoy a moment of carelessness with relatives, with friends, which was loosely massacred on 14 July at the national festival of France, this friendly country, this country so close to us. It was once again the values of human rights that were targeted. On behalf of the Belgian Government, I express my strongest solidarity with the French people once again facing a painful ordeal. Our thoughts are of course for the victims and their loved ones forever marked. Our democracies must be solid and on the alert to defend our personal freedoms unrelentingly against the murderers of freedoms. More than ever, we must refuse to live in fear and we must continue to struggle to protect and defend our way of life. Ladies and gentlemen, the Promenade des Anglais in Nice is an excellent place for tourists of all nationalities to enjoy their holidays. In the attack, we also lost compatriots. Our thoughts go first and foremost to the victims and their family members. The promenade is a melting pot of summer fun and relaxation. Thousands of people came to enjoy the annual fireworks on the French national holiday. The unsub who committed the attack wanted to kill as many victims as possible. Among them were many children who together with their parents were on vacation in France. I want to tell them that we support them and that we share their grief. On behalf of the Belgian Government, I expressed our condolences to François Hollande, the President of the French Republic.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u4	I would ask you to observe a few moments of silence in memory of the victims of the attack in Nice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u5	At the government's request, I propose that the draft law on the fight against terrorism (III), Nos 1951/1 to 4, should be included on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session. At the request of the government, I propose that you place on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the bill with various provisions on counter-terrorism (III), Nos. 1951/1 to 4. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u6	Mr President, I welcome the arrival of Mr Peeters. It's definitely very tense within the government. [[Laughs]] Obviously, the blows are lost. This is the image of the government, as our colleague said: a government of broken arms. [[Brouhahaha]] Mr President, to return to the point which the majority wishes to add to the agenda. As I have had the opportunity to report to some colleagues, Ecolo-Groen cannot accept this way of doing things, which is to wait nine months before tabling texts that reflect commitments made after the Paris attacks and only give Parliament nine or ten days to work on them. These are important texts, and we are all aware of them. But these are also very sensitive texts from the point of view of the measures to be taken in their content – my colleagues Gilles Vanden Burre and Stefaan Van Hecke will be speaking about it just now – but also from the point of view of legal writing. In order to do so, the work in committee did not go to the bottom of things. We have pointed out this and, moreover, the report did not arrive until yesterday. These are not correct working methods for such a sensitive and important issue as the fight against terrorism. That is why, Mr President, we are opposed to this taking into account and introducing into the agenda at the last minute such an important text, which, as we said in committee, should be able to hold hearings, even if they are contradictory. In order to enrich a text, it is sometimes necessary to dare to confront it with divergent opinions. I do not intervene here on the substance, we will do so earlier if the point is accepted, but I would like to comment on the fact that for us this is not respectful of Parliament or of the importance of the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u7	Mr President, I agree with the opinion expressed by my colleague Mr Nollet. Nine days is really not serious. This morning, we did not know if we were going to discuss these measures today. This type of law, which is a major infringement of individual rights in our country, deserves a much more in-depth debate! We are not alone in expressing this request. As Amnesty International has been quoted here, I do so here too: "The government has been working on the drafts for months and is now putting Parliament out of play by asking for them to be discussed and voted in just two weeks. The urgency procedure is totally inappropriate and it is dangerous for Parliament to lend itself to it." If we listen to Mr Claude Debrulle, Honorary Director-General of the Directorate-General for Legislation and Fundamental Freedoms and Rights at the FPS Justice, he deplores "that she should be taken on board, without in-depth examination and in the absence of a broad democratic debate on the merits". Many of the actors concerned about democracy in our society are concerned that today the government is pushing without allowing for in-depth debate. I'm asking to postpone the discussion at the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u8	Mr President, I can partly agree with the arguments raised by Mr Nollet. Clearly, one can only regret that the government arrives so late with such a project. The government could and should have brought him, several months ago. That being said, it is also an important bill to strengthen counter-terrorism tools. For these reasons, unlike the two colleagues who have just spoken, we support the proposal to debate and vote on this bill today. However, my colleague Mrs Matz will make some remarks about the substance of the case. But we support, Mr President, putting the agenda on the agenda today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u9	Mr President, these applause are a little easy. I fully share the conviction expressed by our colleagues in Ecolo-Groen. It was extremely important to take measures to combat terrorism. Nevertheless, as we know – indeed, the Prime Minister had reminded us – we must not make any decisions at the door. We must always balance the protection of our citizens with the protection of individual rights and freedoms. And to check that balance, we need to take the time. That is why my group, for example, asked for hearings on certain provisions. One of the two projects, the one on prepaid cards, is not a problem. We immediately agreed, although we had to look at it very quickly. On the second draft, which contains various provisions in this area, we feel that this draft could well go to the Constitutional Court because, as some watchdog organizations say, it poses problems of principle. We refused that. We absolutely want him to vote. I find that a pity. This abounds in the sense of those who want to do anything as long as the word "terrorism" is indicated in a project. Having said that, in the Conference of Presidents, we committed ourselves to voting on this bill. The PS had committed itself to this as did the other parties. In keeping with this commitment, we will vote. We believe that the draft should be voted on, but we argue that it is a very problematic procedure and that it is a bad project. Mr Crusnière will have the opportunity to say so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u10	Mr President, I would like to thank most of the opposition for its support for putting the "Terror III" project on the agenda in the context of the debate that we must have, given the importance of the project, in order to achieve the anti-terrorism measures as soon as possible. Nevertheless, we must be fair about how the debates are organized. The debate in committee was scheduled for Wednesday, 13 July. The continuation of these discussions was scheduled for Friday, 15. We voted on Wednesday, when it was possible to continue the 14 debates in the committee, which had put them on the agenda of Friday 15th. There was a way to debate longer. The choice was made in committee. The opposition did not wish to extend the debate by half a day on Friday 15th, even though it was possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u11	Mr President, I will be brief. I also thank the opposition parties who wish to discuss this project today, which we call "Terror III". This informal title shows that it is in complete continuity, even though it contains only six articles. However, I do not claim that it is secondary. Mr Nollet, I think I have answered Mr Vanden Burre's seven or eight questions in length and wide. We have developed this project with the utmost respect for parliamentary work. As Mr Ducarme, head of the MR Group, recalled, we were ready to continue the discussion last Friday. Besides, I even booked all afternoon. It was not because of the majority that this discussion was not held. The corrected report has been distributed. In addition, Parliament has granted the government the benefit of urgency for this project, which is in line with the measures we have already taken. Mrs Onkelinx, you are talking about hearings, but with regard to the special investigative means and the 'pot-pourri IV', yesterday again, we composed the list of the hearings that we would organise. There is virtually no bill that is not subject to hearings. This is a small project. We talked about it at length and we could have improved our work if we had continued on Friday, but no one wanted it. That is why I would be very pleased if we were to deal with this text today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u12	Minister, in order to remain on the issue of funding, why, when you reserved the Friday range, did your majority reject the possibility of holding hearings on this text? Do you fear that any external remarks will be directed towards this project that you consider fundamental? I thank you for reminding you that my colleague has dealt with various subjects in relation to this "small" text which you consider to be such, but which actually undermines essential principles and which also deserves to be questioned by outsiders during hearings. You refused, while Friday's beach, and Mr. Ducarme said so, would have allowed it. That is what we regret and wish to acknowledge today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u13	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 111 Yes No. [[12]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 123 Total The draft is therefore included on the agenda. Consequently, the draft is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, a rule of law, a democracy, this is not being negotiated and it is not being attacked, let alone by an army. Therefore, one can only deplore and strongly condemn a military coup that took place last Friday in Turkey, where civilians lost their lives and parliament was bombed. However, I wonder. How can we, a few hours after a failed coup, arrest nearly 20,000 people, including judges, civil servants, university professors and journalists? Is such a purge compatible with a rule of law? Can the President of a member state of the Council of Europe and NATO plead with impunity for the restoration of the death penalty? I think, ladies and gentlemen, the answer to these questions is clearly "no". It's not enough to be elected to do whatever you want. A democracy should not be confused with a "majoritocracy". This failed coup attempt cannot under any circumstances be used as a pretext for authoritarian measures. Europe and our country, the founding State of the Council of Europe and of the European Union, cannot close their eyes on the pretext of having agreements with the Erdogan regime, a regime whose liberticide drifts seem to be accelerating. This is a difficult situation for me, given my commitment to Turkey. Prime Minister, how do you analyse the evolution of the post-putsch situation in Turkey and the massive arrests of the Erdogan regime? Have you talked about the consequences for the process of accession to the European Union? What about the Council of Europe and NATO? Will Belgium take an initiative in these forums whose charters could be seriously undermined by the decisions of the Erdogan regime? Does this call into question the agreements? What about the right of asylum for Turkish nationals? Finally, in this tense security situation, what elements could they make change the opinion of your services for our citizens, as for Tunisia for example?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, following the particularly bloody attempt by a fraction of the Turkish army to putsch against the Erdogan regime, the reactions of European governments and the US government have not been delayed. They all supported the Turkish President not for himself as such, but for his function as democratically elected President, rightly believing that political changes cannot be made by violence, but by ballots. Ms. Angela Merkel called on the Turkish Government to respect the rule of law, including, of course, democratic elections, but also respect for the opposition, freedom of the press, the right to a fair trial, the independence and integrity of the judiciary, respect for national minorities and international law. All these fundamental democratic principles are now threatened by a government that seems to see, thanks to this abortive putsch, the opportunity to muzzle everything that would belong to the political opposition perceived by the regime – I quote – as "a cancer to be eradicated urgently". Within four days, thousands of soldiers, police and magistrates were deprived of their liberty. Tens of thousands of civil servants, teachers, rectors and university deans were suspended and 24 radio and television stations were withdrawn from their licences. Finally, a possible restoration of the death penalty was mentioned, a practice in total contradiction with Protocols 6 and 13 of the European Convention on Human Rights. In the face of such an affront by President Erdogan to our fundamental democratic principles, our place at the heart of the European Union, the Council of Europe and soon of the UN Security Council must urge you to firmly condemn the authoritarian drifts under way and call on the Erdogan regime to re-establish a democratic dialogue rather than prevent it. Prime Minister, what is the current state of your diplomatic relations with the Erdogan regime? Have you had any recent contact with the latter? What answer have you given or are you going to give to the Belgian magistrates who are very worried about the very brutal suspension of their colleagues? What means of pressure do you think you can use in your government, but also in the European Union? Indeed, in my view, at a time when Euroscepticism is on the rise, the European Union's response must be more clear, firm and up to the democratic values at stake than ever before.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u16	Prime Minister, the orchestrated and failed coup in Turkey has given Erdogan the ideal opportunity to rapidly expand and complete the cleansing he has been carrying out in the military and in justice for years. He has, as it were, opened the hunting season early with a true witch hunt for every critical voice. Radio and TV stations are losing their broadcasting licences and nearly 50 000 people have been arrested or fired. Over the last few days, thousands of judges, teachers, military and civil servants have been arrested or placed on inactive grounds. In the meantime, academics are not even allowed to leave the country. It is clear that Erdogan is very thoroughly working on his week of long knives and that was clearly prepared. The blacklist was ready. What worries me most, Prime Minister, is that Erdogan is able to spread his purity operation in Europe as well. Do you think it is normal that after a finger-cut by Erdogan, a significant number of his supporters in Beringen storm and destroy a community center? That in Limburg dozens of Turkish Gülensympathisants are intimidated and threatened in such a way that they have to go into hiding? Do you think it is a sign of successful integration that third- and fourth-generation people conduct such behaviour here? Prime Minister, you have been silent so far. The government stands by and looks at it. I haven't heard a single negative response to Erdogan. Why? Why didn't there be a clear and quick conviction against Erdogan? He is cleaning up all aspects of a democratic society and replacing it with a totalitarian Islam state. Finally, Prime Minister, will you finally say in Europe that Turkey's accession negotiations must be completed immediately?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u17	Mr President, Turkey is an important partner of our country, of the European Union and of NATO. However, the situation in Turkey has been of great concern to us for a long time. Although Turkey should strengthen the process towards a more democratic rule of law, we have been seeing signs in the opposite direction for some time. Many rights are under pressure, such as freedom of the press and freedom of expression. Human rights are also under pressure. Parliamentary immunity was reversed. Actions against minorities are also increasing. Of course, a military coup cannot be an answer. Everyone opposes last Thursday's attempted coup. Respect for the democratic institutions of a country is fundamental. However, we are very concerned about the situation after the coup. A large number of soldiers, judges, officials and police officers were arrested late in the day. It's about thousands of people. The numbers have already been mentioned here. University professors, rectors and teachers are also widely endorsed and deposed. That situation is very worrying. We cannot just stand by and not act. We also expect President Erdogan to respect the principles of the rule of law and democratic principles. Moreover, we must also look at the tensions that have created the Turkish community in our country. We have a democratic tradition here in Belgium, in which different human and social visions and different political views can be expressed in a democratic debate. Violence has no place in it. That is unacceptable. We cannot tolerate the fact that specific organisations and people are now being called, accused, threatened and intimidated. We do not tolerate inciting and calling for hatred and violence. The situation is unseen. People and buildings being attacked must be clearly condemned. It doesn't belong here. Prime Minister, my three questions to you are the following. Firstly, can Turkey go even further along the path of EU membership, given the mass expulsion of judges, professors, teachers and police officers, given the restriction of democratic rights and freedoms and the opening of a parliamentary debate on the reintroduction of the death penalty, which is incompatible with European values? What is the Belgian attitude towards this? How will our country react to this? Secondly, can we still regard Turkey as a sustainable strategic partner? What are the effects on our bilateral relations and Turkey's relations with the European Union and NATO, particularly in the framework of the EU-Turkey agreement on migration? Finally, how do you estimate the situation with the Turkish community in our country? What measures will you take in this respect? What actions will you take to ensure the safety of the people and restore peace?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today my heart is bleeding. My heart bleeds as a Belgian politician. My heart bleeds like Belgian with Turkish roots, but my heart still bleeds most like democrat. We have many debates in this hemisphere, on the edge of the cut and our vision of society often clashes, but something we share. Something is shared by each of us in this hemisphere, together with all our citizens, and that is our democracy, our freedom of thought and what we want, democratic values for which we have fought for a long time. From that reflex, the Turkish opposition also opposed the military coup on Friday night. Following the military attempt at coup d'état that killed many citizens, a presidential coup is taking place today: a regime that wants to bring back the death penalty, undermines the rule of law, pollutes the media and opposition, dismisses 21 000 academics and teachers and deprives professors of the right to travel abroad. One cannot remain silent today. Turkey does not need a military dictatorship, but it does not need a presidential one. [[Applause]] Turkey needs more democracy. I know I'm sticking my neck out. I notice that in my mailbox, on social media, on the street. The polarisation is enormous, but there is no other option but to say clearly as a democrat today: this cannot be done! [[Applause]] Prime Minister, there is an embarrassing silence from the government, both on the illegal military coup and on its aftermath. You bounced the ball back to the Foreign Secretary who didn't give it home. Belgium is too quiet, too absent and our group has a lot of questions. They're already set. We are really concerned that the conflict here is escalating. Freedom of organisation and personal integrity are essential elements of the rule of law. Citizens cannot be tolerated because of their personal opinion, whatever that opinion may be. It is unacceptable that a press attaché from the embassy should do so. Prime Minister, has there been any consultation with the ambassador? What have you done about it? If you haven't done anything yet, I sincerely hope that this is not true, what will you do? The same applies to the state of Turkey's accession to Europe. In March, the Belgian Government decided to open a new chapter around it. Do you agree with me that this cannot be the case in the current situation? What will you do about it? Today is the time to confess colour. None of us can be a little Democrat.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the events of last Friday and Saturday have provoked indignation and anger and shock. The reactions have therefore been similar, because the military coup was, quite rightly, severely condemned. However, since Monday we have been living in a different situation. After the military coup, we do not have to exaggerate much to say that there is now a legal coup. I'm declaring myself. This means that the democratic state organisation is being abused to undermine democracy by dismissing judges, releasing academics, prohibiting people from going abroad, monitoring television and radio stations, and so I can continue for a while. Against this quasi-legal coup, the reaction remains hypothermia. It is as if Europe and our country, perhaps because there are a number of agreements, allow them to be committed or not to be protested. Our first question is, then, when will the government condemn not only the military coup but also the legal coup, which is now taking place? It strikes me that the plan of the legal coup could only be rolled out two days after the military coup. It seemed as if this had been planned for months and that the military coup was only a good thing to finally roll it out. The second point concerns our own country. It has already been said. We see a lot of problems in our country too, some of which are caused by the Turkish embassy. Hence my second question: has it already been said to that embassy that it is not possible to address the Belgian people from the embassy to call for hatred? Thirdly, I have heard Minister Jambon say that it is a local problem and that the government should not deal with it. When citizens of our country are set against each other, the government must be working on it. Will the government here, together with the local authorities, take initiatives to control that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are all in shock when we hear the information coming from Turkey, when we hear what is happening to thousands of military personnel, officials and judges. It is 45,000 people who have been laid off, arrested and the manhunt continues, it seems, in some quarters. People are lynched. I understand that Mrs. Almaci's heart is bleeding and I want to join her cry. One ends up wondering what really happened on the night of 15 July last, given the current events. In any case, there is a huge witch hunt, brutal repression, and the arrest of people whose actions they may have done in the context of a possible military coup d'état. Are there judges with kalashnikovs? Do we imagine teachers with weapons? Is it possible that university rectors and journalists were able to participate in a military coup? In any case, we do not imagine that lists can be drawn up within 24 hours. Therefore, there had to be pre-existing lists. We also wonder why European diplomacy is moving in tiny steps, in steps? Why is European diplomacy so timid? We need to send a clear signal to Mr. Erdogan. What is happening in his country today is unacceptable. This is unacceptable, whether it happens in Turkey or elsewhere in the world and certainly in Europe. It must also be said to Mr Erdogan that Turkey's regime is not intended to enter the European Union. There must also be an extremely serious discussion within the Atlantic Alliance, of which Turkey is a member. I recall that the last Warsaw Summit began with this chapter: "NATO's essential mission remains unchanged: to ensure that the Alliance remains a unique community of freedom, peace, security and shared values, including individual freedom, human rights, democracy and the rule of law." I believe that this discussion should also take place within NATO. As other colleagues have said, we must ensure that those who are fleeing the repression of Mr Erdogan can find asylum in our countries today. Minister, what will we do to better protect the victims of violence in Turkey today? What actions do we take? What is European diplomacy in this area? Finally, it would be useful to check with the other Member States of the European Union whether it is not time to convene and recall our Ambassador for consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u21	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, everything that has been said shows great and justified indignation. On Friday evening, many of us almost directly experienced an attempt at coup through the social media, where we saw the information pouring in minute by minute. It goes without saying that a coup d'état, as demonstrated by the coup d'état in Turkey in 1980, is not the way to resolve abuses. It was right to respond to that. Here are the words "Presidential coup d'état" and "Soft coup d'état" for what has been followed, and that also requires a strong response from our side. It is quite clear that if, within 24 hours, nearly 3 000 judges are removed from office, there is no direct link with the attempted coup d'état and that it is merely a pretext for carrying out a pure operation which has been de facto organised for a long time. I also recommend an article from De Groene Amsterdammer, "The soft, prepared coup d'état," written before the facts have occurred. So the conviction is in order. It must now be clear that, as far as Turkey's potential accession to the EU is concerned, something we have said in the past that cannot be said for us, has really been put a double lock on that door. There is also a need to clarify this. But this is a signal. We cannot interfere in internal matters, internal matters as they are called. Of course, the opposite is not possible. What we have been through over the past few days is absolutely unacceptable. Reference was made here to the situation in Beringen and to other situations, but I would like to quote the shocking video that was distributed via social media, apparently to the Turkish embassy from a Brussels police car and using the police car microphone, the following was said. I quote a few Turkish quotes, translated into Dutch. God, ruin and bring among those traitors who, inside and outside, are against the survival of our homeland. Amen. Bring them down. Amen. Bring them down. Amen............................................................................................................................................................ A little later: God, beat those who, with all sorts of treacherous plans, want to disrupt our unity and our collusion, to the head. Amen............................................................................................................................................................ A little later: Ruiner, bring those who want to split us, those who want to do a coup. Amen. Bring them down. Amen. Bring them down. Amen............................................................................................................................................................ My dear friends, when this is said, I do not understand at all that this can be done in Brussels by using the telephone of a police car, then I say that this language cannot be used in a country in which we want to live. There can be no doubt about that. If we always take the terms values and standards into account and cannot always clearly state what is in them and what is outside them, this is clearly out of the question. I therefore call on this government to take action against the way in which the Turkish government is conducting it from Ankara, of course, here in our country, is causing unrest and creating contradictions and hostility among the people. We must fight this in the most forceful way possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u22	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Turkey has been the subject of an attempted coup d'état against its legal institutions. Fortunately, this attempt failed. However, the power in place seems to take advantage of this failed coup d'état to illegally defeat its opponents. This must be of the utmost concern to us, because we are witnessing a muzzling of the press; laws are being violated, civil servants, judges, teachers are being removed from office or taken on board by thousands. We are witnessing the growing desire for the reintroduction of the death penalty. We must be brave. Prime Minister, I welcome your reaction and that of the Minister for Foreign Affairs for having promptly condemned any excessive and disproportionate action by the power in Ankara. Belgium and the European Union must be very clear and assert that Turkey is not ready to enter the European Union. We must also remain vigilant, because it is crucial to remember that Turkey is a direct neighbour of our continent and remains an ally within NATO. And this country seems to be drifting away from the precepts of a rule of law, respect for fundamental rights and freedoms. It is crucial to be able to keep these principles of democracy in mind and to preserve them. In Belgium, but also in Germany, the fire of revenge is intensifying. People have to hide, including at home. It's unbearable! The fact that the Turkish authorities have asked us to hand over suspicious persons to them is disproportionate and totally unbearable as well. My questions are many, Prime Minister. First of all, I would have wanted to know what information you have about the prosecution, which some call genuine purges, as a result of this failed coup d'état. Do you have any information as to the origin of these disturbances in the army, since that is where this coup d'état began? How can we weigh our weight to stem these authoritarian drifts? Will the European Union continue its negotiations on accession in this context? Is there a danger for our citizens who are in Turkey or are expected to visit in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u23	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to focus my question on a diplomatic incident here in Belgium, in the aftermath of the coup in Turkey. The Turkish embassy spokesperson accused the Flemish government and Prime Minister Bourgeois of maintaining good links with organisations supporting terrorist activities. In other words, the Flemish Government and Prime Minister Bourgeois would support terror. Mr Prime Minister, we are not gonna stand for this. This is unacceptable! Not just because it doesn't make any sense. In fact, until further notice, we are still living in the rule of law here. In Turkey this may not be the case anymore, but here it is. That is to say, if one wants to accuse someone, one goes to court instead of to the press. This is also unacceptable diplomatically. The Vienna Convention on Duty of Diplomats clearly states in Article 41 that diplomats do not have to deal with internal affairs. Quod nun, in this case. This is not an issue, Prime Minister. Imagine if one of your diplomats abroad would accuse a government leader, then I do not think that person could remain in place. Well, the same Vienna Convention allows, according to Article 9, that you declare that person persona non grata. What action will you take, Prime Minister? So far, no clear position has been taken. Prime Minister Bourgeois has already clearly given his justified reply. We would like to hear the reply from this government. In the meantime, has the Turkish embassy contacted you or your services, or the cabinet of Minister Reynders, to nuance this message? Has there been a reaction to that yet? The embassy employee said he was speaking in his own name yesterday. He was trying to limit the damage a little bit. But I've been going over that man's tweets for the past five days. Well, they're hallucinating. Involved has lost all moral integrity. He calls, not in general but specifically, for certain persons to be threatened with death. He also says that all those who claim that this coup does not come from the Gülen movement support a terrorist organisation and that anyone who has doubts about it is put in the terrorist camp. In other words, and to the extent that this man would already be a diplomat, in these circumstances, when tensions overflow, when Turkey is on fire and we have to keep calm, he is going to pour oil on the fire. I would like to hear your response, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u24	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, these are really turbulent times. The British have decided to leave the European Union. In recent months there were attacks in Brussels, Istanbul, Orlando, Baghdad, last week in Nice, and 24 hours after the attack in Nice, a coup took place in Turkey. We are talking about a coup d'état in a neighbour of the European Union, a NATO ally and still a democracy until further notice. Moreover, all this happens in the 21st century. I must tell you that this seems somewhat strange. Of course, we must condemn this coup. It is not with tanks that one conquers power; that is what one does by winning elections. However, this does not prevent something from happening in Turkey, and this is already happening before this weekend. The rule of law has been under pressure for some time now. Now there is an unimaginable repression against the so-called coupplegers. Teachers, judges, journalists, all of them must believe in it. Even the re-establishment of the death penalty is prominently on the agenda. In that failed coup, Erdogan finds the perfect excuse, the perfect alibi to eliminate democracy, the rule of law. We must be very concerned about that. A while ago, I warned, from this gallery, that our European values should not be traded as they are on the Istanbul carpet market. I repeat that today. The refugee deal with Turkey leaves a bitter aftertaste. I do not think I know that it contains a clause that gives a clear lead to Erdogan to install some sort of authoritarian reign of terror and this with European approval. Europe must therefore react vigorously, Prime Minister. I say very strongly that under these circumstances there can be no European accession, not now, never. I note that the conflict is now being exported from Turkey to our own country. I look at my own province, Limburg, and Beringen in particular. Some individuals commit destruction and violence in our streets, they preach hatred towards each other and in the meantime the Turkish embassy is picking up the moods. That is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen. Belgium is and remains a democratic constitutional state based on the enlightened principles. It proves once again that we must make even more efforts to make clear to the newcomers in our country, but also to the young people who were born here, what our rules are and how we live together. Prime Minister, I would like to know what the Belgian Government will do to raise these principles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that certain moments in political life call for us to come together on the essentials, on the fundamental values. We are faced, each of us, well, at a time in the history of Europe with insecurity, instability, difficulties in the South of Europe, with the situation in Iraq, Syria and Libya. There are also many doubts, many questions about the relationship with a great neighbour in the East, Russia. In this period of instability and insecurity, it is important to return to the fundamentals of what we are deeply; to return to the fruits of European history: the values of the Enlightenment, the rule of law, democracy, respect, tolerance. Of course, there are requirements in international diplomatic life. There is, from time to time, a certain requirement of pragmatism. But there is also, and this time has come, the requirement to recall these fundamental values at key moments. The members of the government, like everyone in this assembly, followed the events of the night from Friday to Saturday. Immediately, on Saturday morning, Mr. Didier Reynders and I reacted. First point: we still condemn, and in Turkey too, the use of force to capture power. At the same time, in the same communication, starting on Saturday morning with Mr Didier Reynders, we indicated from the outset that we should call for restraint and proportionality in reactions. As early as Saturday morning, we feared the temptation to use a momentum to move towards unacceptable behaviour. And I want to be very clear. I say it with the greatest solemnity, on behalf of the government: what is happening today in Turkey, and I measure the word I use, is a slip, is a totally unacceptable authoritarian drift, which we condemn! I also want to speak clearly. Yes, there is an accession process, but I have always been clear to you on this, even when it comes to the agreements on refugees: not a blank cheque. We are very clear on that. I confirm this for our important commitment. The reality is very clear. What is happening in Turkey right now? The observation is clear. More and more, and not only in recent days, Turkey is turning its back on European values and the European project. Here and now, we can only see that Turkey's accession is nothing but a glamour, in the situation we are experiencing today. If it were to be restored, we will consider that the death penalty is a red line totally unattainable to us. We are making this plea with great conviction in the European fora, in order to win the support of our European colleagues in this context. A number of Members have rightly drawn attention to the situation in Belgium. We have taken initiatives in this area in recent days and hours. We do not want to transfer this conflict to Belgium. That is unacceptable to us. We apply the principle of cohesion, the principle of respect, the principle of tolerance. That remains a crucial point for us, and there is no doubt about it. A meeting of the National Security Council took place on Monday. On that occasion, the government, my fellow Members and myself, sent a clear message to our security services. The intention is very clear. We want our security services to remain very vigilant with a view to maintaining cohesion: a zero tolerance to threats, a zero tolerance to intimidation. Finally, to be precise, I want to respond to an inquiry that has been addressed to me in the context of diplomatic relations. We have indeed seen expressions from colleagues working at the Turkish embassy, which are not acceptable to us. I will be very clear on this point: there are diplomatic practices that we intend to enforce. I would like to inform you that we have requested that the Turkish Ambassador be summoned to Foreign Affairs this afternoon to explain the situation. This is the first step. Based on the explanations that will be given, the government will appreciate what kind of consequences should be reserved for what is not acceptable to us in the expressions that have been mentioned and that no one here, when adhering to democratic values, can respect. In short and in conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to look down. We are not going to stop our ears at what is happening in Turkey. We do not accept that thousands, perhaps even tens of thousands of civil servants, magistrates, professors, teachers, will be called into question in a few hours, in a few days in the case of what is like a drift that we cannot tolerate. We defend the rule of law. We defend democracy. We are going to do this in Belgium. We are going to do this in Europe. We will mobilize in all forums, including in the NATO framework, to effectively carry the values we believe in.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u26	Mr President, of course, it is intolerable to take the power of a democracy, of a country, with an army. It is equally intolerable to take power in a democracy by arresting judges, journalists and university professors. Everyone said so. Prime Minister, your remarks have been reassuring. We're not going to stay on the balcony. The government will make strong diplomatic, political and international arrangements for what is happening. In recent months, the Erdogan government has arrested journalists; now it is arresting judges and arresting teachers. He no longer only attacks freedom of expression, he literally attacks freedom of thought. That can only cause us concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u27	Prime Minister, thank you for your reassuring words. I think we all agree in this House on the seriousness of the situation. You were talking about "dreading," but the attacks on freedom of thought in Turkey are more than a slip. All those who are arrested right now are recognized for their intellectual qualities and dare to say what they believe in. Erdogan is removing them from the map. I am therefore reassured by your words and wish you great courage in all that remains to be done in condemning these facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u28	Mr President, Prime Minister, you have at last said today that Erdogan's practices and its excesses in this country are unacceptable. But it must not end, it must not end with harsh words in this hemisphere, you must be clear about this and, above all, you must act on it. I hear several members of the government, Mrs Jadin and Mr De Roover, saying that Turkey, as far as they are concerned, cannot join the European Union, but it is not being acted upon, Mr Prime Minister. This week there was a European Council, where Belgium did not ask for the accession negotiations to cease. On the contrary, next week the Turkish Minister for EU Affairs will be invited again to an informal summit of the European Council, just to talk about an EU enlargement. Meanwhile, the billions of pre-accession aid, which was agreed with the European Union in 2014, simply continues to flow to Turkey. So please don't stick to words, but act on them as well. It's insane. At the beginning of this month, Erdogan announced, apparently he needs new votes for his AK party, that he is going to make three million Syrian refugees Turkish citizens. If you carry on like this, you can also turn it into EU citizens. Mr Prime Minister, as a democrat and a convinced European, I refuse to take part in this and I count on strong resistance and immediate cessation of these accession negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u29	Mr President, Prime Minister, you have spoken clearly and thank you for your answers. We cannot stand by while there is a slippage towards a totalitarian regime. But, that should not be a one-off conviction, that should remain the focus over the coming months and years. I also agree and welcome your call for us to unite here on the fundamental. A fundamental aspect is our democratic rule of law, and we must not compromise in this respect. This means that political opinions must be free to be expressed and debated and that violence, threats and intimidation have no place whatsoever and must be strictly combated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u30	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am satisfied with the widely shared indignation in this hemisphere. However, allow me not to categorize a tweet by Minister Reynders as an official press release when the coup was in full swing and the Turkish people were looking for support, democratic support. Sometimes we need something more than that and we also need to be faster than that. I share every democratic principle you have set out here. It is good that there is now a clear response. I have heard you say two things: the ambassador is being summoned this afternoon and the introduction of the death penalty is a red line. For us, the red line has already been crossed. I believe that the red line has already been crossed for our people at the moment. Prime Minister, that red line must remind you of something. She may have to inspire you to commemorate our foreign policy, to commemorate it according to those democratic principles that we have all honoured here today about majority and opposition. I refer to the problematic refugee deal and to our unimaginably problematic attitude towards a dictatorial regime such as Saudi Arabia. We cannot remain silent about that either. Unfortunately, however, our group finds very little support in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u31	Mr Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for this clear statement here in the Chamber. It's in her best interest. Maybe we could have done it a little sooner, like we said. The fact that you will call on the ambassador is also important. Perhaps that too could have been done a little earlier. In any case, it proves that a parliamentary debate has its value because the parliamentary debate has clearly led to a statement here. Unfortunately, I have not received an answer on another point. We know that the Minister for the Interior has said that the events in Limburg are a local matter. I would have liked to hear from you whether the government itself will take action together with the local authorities, not just in Limburg? I repeat my request to do so. I think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u32	Prime Minister, you were able to feel the emotion and indignation of the House, from all groups. It was important to hear that signal. Your words have been clear, albeit late, certainly, especially considering the first information of the Foreign Minister on Turkey. However, you have been clear, and we appreciate the convening of the Turkish Ambassador to Belgium. If it appears that some diplomats have failed to comply with the rules of diplomacy, I believe that they no longer have their place here on Belgian soil and that they must return to their country. That must be clear. On the other hand, I also believe that it would be important for a consultation of the EU ambassadors in Turkey to take place, and for the extent to which they should not be recalled for consultation. That seems important to me. What is disappearing in Turkey is freedom, the rule of law and democracy. We must not forget that, alongside all those whom we see today unleashing hatred and terror, there are thousands in Turkey, and even millions of Turks who are committed to the values of freedom, democracy and the rule of law, who are real Europeans and who are waiting for us to be at their side.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u33	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to thank you very much for your reply, in which, if there are any doubts, you have clarified. In addition to concrete measures, we must also consider how an atmosphere such as it has taken place over the past few days has developed. I will give a very brief quote of 19 May 2016, so from before the events. It is a quote by Tahmina Akefi, a Dutch author of Afghan origin. She says that Ebru Umar, a Turkish-Dutch journalist, who was charged with allegedly insulting President Erdogan, has to stay at a secret address today, because she is no longer safe in the Netherlands. I'm quoting her now: "That doesn't come as a surprise to me." By always being tolerant, the Netherlands actively contributed to the loyalty that migrants cherish for their country of origin. If you as a Dutchman are migrating to such a country, you have to stick to the customs there. But people who come to the West, in one way or another, find it anything but self-evident to adapt. Before they make the transition, they already have an image of the West: prosperity, but standards and values are wrong. What we call freedom, they see as offensive. That idea brings people from strictly religious countries here. In fact, they demand that Westerners accept their habits and traditions and, where possible, make adjustments in the public domain. Europeans are all too happy to accept these demands. That quote shows that even people of so-called foreign origin can absolutely say yes to living together and that they can absolutely be a valuable contribution. The voice of the aforementioned Afghan woman, who is now living in the Netherlands, should inspire us in the analysis of the problem we are experiencing today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u34	Prime Minister, thank you very much for the clarifications that have been given to us. We needed a clear message and we got it. The first reactions of the government had already taken place last Saturday. It is important, just as it is important to emphasize that we love democracy, freedom and the rule of law. That's what makes us stand together; that's what we fought for; that's what generations before us fought for. These are values that we wish to share and defend as widely as possible and, in this context, reaffirm very strongly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, it is a good thing that you are summoning the Ambassador this afternoon. As far as we are concerned, this could have happened yesterday. I also hope that you will let him know, in the same clear terms as Prime Minister Geert Bourgeois, that his statement at the embassy is inadmissible and that this man is simply importing the conflict, rather than keeping the necessary calm. I hope you will urge the Ambassador to respond appropriately.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u36	Prime Minister, yesterday the new British Prime Minister, Theresa May, met with the European President. It stated there that the United Kingdom does not intend to take up the EU Presidency in the second half of 2017. That is not surprising; that makes sense. It is a sign that the United Kingdom wishes to play a smaller role in the EU, pending the final Brexit. Indeed, it is difficult to set the agenda for the future of the EU if we are not to be part of it in the near future. The question then is who will take over the presidency in place of the United Kingdom. Last week you were in Warsaw. Perhaps you have been able to check informally with your fellow Members on how best to fill that out. A few days ago, Minister Reynders said that Belgium would be willing, if necessary, to take up the presidency during that period. That seems to us to be an interesting slope to investigate, Prime Minister. Belgium has always been one of the main supporters and drivers of the European project. Our previous presidencies were also always judged positively by the other Member States, recently in 2010. That presidency was very well observed at the time, despite the fact that the government was on-going. Prime Minister, what will happen to the EU Presidency in the second half of 2017? Is Belgium officially considering taking over the presidency? When will this be decided?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u37	In fact, informal discussions on the next European Presidencies have taken place in the margins of the Warsaw Summit over the last few days. In the weeks following the referendum, everyone understood that a UK Presidency during the second semester of 2017 was a difficult option. The new Prime Minister has confirmed what you said, namely that Britain will not observe the Presidency. In that context, there were informal discussions today. The COREPER procedure has not yet been completed. Donald Tusk's latest proposal is that Esland should hold the presidency six months earlier. The option of a Belgian Presidency is not an initiative of Belgium, it is an idea, an informal piste of other actors in European circles, for logistical and practical reasons. Over the last few hours, the proposal is more in the direction of an advance of six months for the various presidencies. That is not yet official, and the next few hours there will be a COREPER procedure. I have the impression that we will have some clarity in that regard in the next few days. Anyway, if we had received the proposal, we would be prepared to play the role.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u38	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your clear answer. I am glad that we have made the proposal. You have confirmed that, if asked, we would do it. I am also pleased to hear that our fellow EU countries had thought of us as the natural replacement of the United Kingdom. 2017 will be a busy diplomatic year with the NATO summit and the Brexit negotiations anyway. We wish you every success and have every confidence that your government will handle it well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u39	Mr. Chair, Minister, you chose your timing not to ride a bike, but to introduce the two labour and salary bills. We have been talking about these projects for months, but you have always claimed that the texts have not yet been drafted. And right in the middle of the summer vacation, you decide to drop them off. What a coincidence! Before I became a Member of Parliament, I was told that I would quickly see that the government would table its plans during the summer holidays. I didn't want to believe it. But today, it is clear that you are right for the people who warned me. Two pieces of legislation have therefore been introduced, namely the Competitiveness Bill and the Flexibility Bill. As far as competitiveness is concerned, it can be said that since the 1996 Act, workers have suffered from it. But after 20 years, they had finally reached the Grail, i.e. the elimination of the wage handicap. Now you decide to change the rules of the game. It's pretty amazing! You even withdraw reductions in social contributions or, in any case, in part. However, one may wonder whether this had a real effect on the cost. This brings me to flexibility, which you call feasible work. I would remind you that at the outset, there was a question of compensation for having to work longer. Finally, what will workers have as compensation? A system of hyperflexibility and suppression or, in any case, a reduction of the overtime surcharge. Work more to earn less. That is the compensation you give to the workers! I can prove it to you, minister. It is written in the explanatory memorandum. I quote: "Production, turnover and profit margin must be increased while costs must be reduced." One thing is clear: this project is commensurate with the employer. Minister, you are saying that this project will reconcile work and personal life. Will a worker who plays football every Wednesday night still be able to do so? You said that the 100 hours that will be added to the annualization of working time will be with the employee's agreement. What guarantees that such an employee will not be dismissed in the event of a refusal? You are talking about negotiations in the sectors until the end of 2016. If the law does not agree, why would the bosses negotiate? Your project is no more than a reduction in fees. Under these conditions, where is the work feasible?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u40	Minister, during the last week of the parliamentary year you caused a great deal of turmoil, not so much because you have fallen, but because you have submitted two draft laws and sent them to the NAR. The timing says a lot about your respect for the social partners, Minister, but it is above all the content of your draft laws that is causing a great deal of turmoil. You have been organising round tables for over a year. You listen to everyone and you have said that you are preparing a menu for workable work. Apparently, that menu is ready. What's on it? The employee can work 100 extra overtime hours without building a catch-up day, which also means that he can work 11 hours a day or 50 hours a week without catching up. Minister, your menu is not tasted by the workers in this country. I don't want to say it's making them sick. You said that everyone in this country needs flexibility. The employers demand flexibility, but also the workers, Minister. I have repeatedly said to you that you do not meet the demands for flexibility of the workers anywhere, but nowhere. Do you really think that an employee can combine work and private life by working 11 hours a day, 50 hours a week and 100 extra overtime without catching up? I am not convinced of that, Minister. Not only do the workers not enjoy your proposal, but also the N-VA and Open Vld apparently do not enjoy your proposal, because they think that the employee in your proposal still has too much to say. I disagree. You yourself have said several times that 1.6 million workers in this country already work in a sector where the 38-hour working week has been agreed on an annual basis. They have done so by mutual agreement. Minister, once again I would like to call on you to throw your bill in the garbage can. Leave it to the social partners, because they have already proved that they are able to provide an answer if there is a demand for flexibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u41	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, unfortunately you had a small bicycle accident. I hope you're the best poker player. But I feel like I'm not. You're better cyclist than poker player. When the government made the decision to make a budget, it put on the table a codicil or annex containing various social provisions, and it set itself the streets, workers and the union forces on the back, as well as the ACW. Today, you are transmitting your project to the Group of Ten. The texts were not ready. They finally are. There are two. What do we see? Mr. Timmermans says you're not going far enough. He says it's really bad and you're going to make Belgium a real social desert. You had shot down your whole game by telling yourself that you would go to the front against the trade union organizations hoping to have the boss behind you. I can understand you; I know where you come from. You could also tell yourself that the whole government would be behind you. And now you are being stabbed in the back by your colleague De Croo, the leader of the Open Vld! He said that the texts could still be discussed, that he did not care about the agreement of the social partners and that the government would decide. Deputy Prime Minister, do you think that's it, playing cards right? Social cooperation must be respected! You transmit a text during the holidays. But you know very well that before the end of August, there is no meeting of the Group of Ten. I would like to know how you will organize this social consultation during the holidays. That's my first question. You say you want an agreement for the end of August. The first meeting, however, takes place at the end of August! If there is no agreement, are you going to give an extension? That's my second question. If there is no agreement, will you make any other constructive proposals? Do you have a margin? That's my third question. Last question: reassure me, is there an agreement in the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u42	Mr Minister, first of all, I wish you strength and a great deal of improvement after your accident. You're not ready for the Tour de France yet, but you might be able to do it next year. Minister, the least we can say is that the release of your bill has led to a flurry of reactions, both on the modernization of work organisation and on the 1996 Wages Act. There were reactions from the social partners. So far, nothing more logical. But above all, this has generated a multitude of reactions from your government partners. On Twitter, it went off, as well as in the press. Signs were also sent directly by the social partners. The least we can say, in the sight and knowledge of all, is that there is clearly a complete disagreement on the whole line within the government. Your partners, N-VA and Open Vld in the lead, have torpedoed your bills. I tell you this very clearly; in my view, there is still one point on which the government has agreed. And those who spoke will obviously have recognized themselves. The government agreed on one point, it was that he muzzled you. He prevented you from coming to speak and asking questions in the House. That would have been a problem before the nice government communication scheduled for next Saturday. On the substance, in terms of flexibility, I believe, unlike some colleagues who spoke before me, that progress must be made and that the organisation of work must be modernised with balanced flexibility. The objective cannot be a flexibility imposed only by the employer. In these matters, I have made a series of proposals. I tabled them and also sent them to the social partners. I hope that they will be able to contribute to the evolution of the debates. Minister, last April, the government decided to boycott the social partners and did a selective sorting at the time of the budgetary adjustment. You learned the lesson. You don't do anything else. You're changing your approach. That's what I'm gonna ask you about. As Minister of Employment, what are your guarantees for social consultation to be respected? Does not the opposing positions expressed within the government mean that these bills are torpedoed and that social consultation will in no way be respected? I am not asking for your position here, but for the position of the government. What is she?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Chers Collègues, it is true that there has been a great deal of discussion on the subject. We approved a notification on 9 April. On the basis of this notification, a lot has been discussed about the Peters Act, without any texts. No one had a text, no one knew the concrete content of the proposals. That's a bit bizarre, it hasn't happened that often. In any case, since 9 April we have had a great deal of informal consultation with the social partners. We have brought the social partners together several times, together and separately, to find a way to stimulate social dialogue and to reach a solution in two very difficult issues: the work that can be done and the law of 1996. We understand that the social partners, the Group of Ten, have come together several times to discuss this. The notification of 9 April expressly states that, after consultation with the Group of Ten, the Minister for Labour would submit a draft law to the Council of Ministers, no later than the summer recess. Because we have had a lot of informal consultations, we have just reached that deadline. If I had not delivered texts to the Group of Ten, you would have asked where my texts were and pointed out to me that I had promised them before July. We have done absolutely everything we can to deliver the texts to the Group of Ten. On 15 July we delivered both the text on workable work and the text on the 1996 law, with the question, for the sake of clarity, Mr Massin, to give us a response as soon as possible. It's not a trick to ship the texts in the middle of a holiday. I asked for advice as soon as possible. The Group of Ten may agree to hold meetings in August and September, indicating that it needs time. I think I acted correctly when I asked the Group of Ten to give me an opinion. I also acted correctly when I delivered the text not only to the Group of Ten, but also to the members of the federal government, to ensure that they did not get that text by detour, with all the comments that had been made. It is normal for Members of Parliament who have received these texts through their colleagues in the government to make statements about them. This is a democracy, thank God. Anyone can express themselves when and how they want. However, I would like to make a clear appeal. We want to give the social dialogue every opportunity. I hope that the Group of Ten will consider the texts as soon as possible. It is not true, Mrs Kitir, that we sent them to the National Labour Council, we sent them to the Group of Ten, which in turn sent them to the National Labour Council. This is a little technical. It is true that the text on workable work can be sent to the National Labour Council for certain parts of the 1996 Law. We have given the Central Business Council every opportunity. It took them internal, informal weeks and months. We have given the social partners every opportunity to find each other. That's why it took a little more time than anticipated. Therefore, you cannot blame me for spending a great deal of time on it and for the texts being forwarded now, before the holidays. My first appeal is: social partners, take this to heart, see what you can do for yourself. I understand that the social partners say that they are prepared to conclude a collective agreement on, for example, occasional teleworking themselves or to do something about slipping working hours themselves. That room's here. However, the coalition agreement clearly states that if no agreements are concluded, it is up to the government to say what it will be at the right time. That's what's gonna happen. Mr President, I hope that we in this House, once the social partners and the government have done their work, will also have an extensive opportunity to discuss this. About the last element, the menu, I want to be clear. I have always said that if the social partners want to expand the menu, I will be the first to add that enlargement. It is a menu that allows sectors to modernise labour law in a good way. There is still a lot of uncertainty, so I will let everyone deliver the lyrics, then you will have some interesting reading during the holiday. I hope that we will then be able to discuss the texts in hand, knowing what this is about.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u44	Minister, on the deadline, excuse me for slightly laughing at what you're talking about. You say that you have kept your commitments and tabled the texts within the time limits set. How is that done when the unions offended themselves when you tabled the texts? You'll have to find a better justification for this timing. On the bottom, what's clear is that you want to make 38-hour week an empty shell. Tomorrow, if this text passes, a worker can be notified seven days in advance, or even 24 hours in advance, of his schedule. This means that the personal life of the workers will be locked in by the demands of the employers. When a couple wonders who the boss is at home, well now, he will be the boss of the worker! It will be he who will determine that onetel cannot go to football because he has to work at the factory, cannot go to pick up the children such day because he has to work in the company. At the PTB, we don't want this kind of society. We want a society where productivity gains are converted into a reduction in working time; a more flexible work and a sharing of working time that allows every unemployed person to have a "job job job".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation and for the efforts you have made to involve the Group of Ten. However, if, after a year of negotiations, you still come up with this menu, I repeat: 11 hours a day, 50 hours a week and 100 overtime without catching up, I have only one advice for you, Minister: perhaps take a cooking lesson during the summer period, because your menu really does not taste good.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u46	Minister, I hear your explanations well, but I have the impression that you are a minister under the tutelage, like a government party. It is not you who decide, it is Mr Timmermans and the FEB who tell you that we are not going far enough. Like your colleague, Mr. From Croo who says that it is anyway, the government that will decide, and that you are still not going far enough. You say you have heard the social partners. I wonder which ones. The boss of the ACW, Mrs. Ska, is as offended as Mr. Goblet, and I know that Mr. Goblet is not one of your friends. I understand that we are talking about modernisation, and that applies both to Mrs Fonck and to you. Modernisation - you will excuse me - does not mean regression!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u47	Minister, you obviously did not answer for the government. In the background, you say exactly the opposite. You say you have respected the government agreement, and your partners say exactly the opposite. No one is fooled: there is obviously no agreement on this, and if there is agreement, it is a facade agreement. I ask myself a fundamental question. What is a government that torpedoes bills before they were even reviewed by the Group of 10? It's never before seen! For me, it is, first and foremost, the reflection of a government that has no respect for social consultation, and that does not care about the contribution of unions and employers. In contrast to you, and some parties of the majority, I believe that all the social partners can bring their expertise to make these bills go forward in a positive way. Because, yes, we need to change the organisation of work in a balanced and efficient way! I hope that this government will not allow consultation to be limited to consultation on the front lines and will make it possible for all the social partners to make a real contribution. This is your responsibility, in your capacity as Minister of Employment and Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u48	Mr President, Minister, I must not remind you that in a few days the opening of the Libramont Fair will take place. It is with this in mind that I wish to return to the subject today. The agricultural sector, for which I have often spoken in Parliament, is generally in great difficulty. We can talk about the dairy sector, the pig sector, the grain sector, the field crop sector or the meat sector. I know, and I recognize, the work you have already done with conviction. You have wanted to put on the agenda various initiatives for the European Councils, which you have defended body and soul. You've often been heard. Various measures have been taken. Amounts were mobilized and released. Today, the distribution appears in the press: EUR 350 million is to be shared between the Member States; Belgium should receive EUR 11 million and EUR 150 million to voluntarily reduce milk production. Of course, these are European answers. These are good initiatives. But I wanted to talk to you about it today because they are not structural solutions. These are ad hoc solutions. Minister, have you made contact with your Flemish and Walloon counterparts on these various measures? Have you met any representatives from the sector? What's the agenda? When will the allocation criteria be decided? When will this money be available for farms? What position will you still be able to defend at future European Councils? I know that you are Belgium's spokesperson at the European Commission and I know that you are defending the body and soul sector. Everyone has their responsibilities. Today I wanted to take stock with you, at the opening of this Libramont fair, which is an important meeting for the agricultural world.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u49	Madam Member, the agricultural world is facing a serious, deep, lasting and multisectoral crisis, as it affects the milk, pork and other sectors. Unfortunately, the first cereal harvests will be extremely worrying. With regard to the meeting that took place this Monday, we, together with the regional ministers, defended a strong position by calling for temporary measures to be taken to limit milk production on a voluntary basis so as to indicate to the markets that a package of additional measures will have to be decided. It's been a fight we've been fighting for several months. What was achieved on Monday was unthinkable three months ago, not only by the European Commission, but also by most Member States. A mechanism has therefore been put in place to finance the limitation of milk production by comparing the last quarter of 2016 with that of 2015. An additional €350 million has been released. In this way, States will be able to add, in the form of top-ups, the same sum so that the incentive is sufficient at national and European level. We have stressed, of course, with different accents in the north and south of the country, the unprecedented nature of the temporary establishment of such a mechanism by the Commission. However, we regretted the amounts mobilised to do so, since they correspond, broadly speaking, to a frozen production of one billion litres of milk. It is clear that I advocate that these provisions should be assessed and extended at European level and that they can be supplemented at national level so that, with the previous measures, they can lead to a tangible reaction on the markets. Today, more than ever, the milk sector is on its knees. If we do not succeed in the short term, we will witness a series of dramas. I believe that I am fully mobilized in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u50	Mr Minister, you have just said that you were fully mobilised, but I think that in our political formation we have always acted in favour of the agricultural sector. Anyway, I'm convinced of that. Thank you for the answers provided. It is clear that we are coming back from afar. A couple of months ago, a year or two ago, we couldn't even have thought of a draft solution as proposed today. Minister, some ministers write a lot, mention the agricultural exception. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you – I think it was interesting to say this today in the gallery – that half of the European Commission comes from the PPE Group, that the European Commissioner comes from the PPE and therefore, to everyone today, his responsibilities!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u51	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u52	Mr Nollet, when you have the floor, you will take it. Now I have it and you let me reply! To each one his responsibilities, to each his work! I can tell you that when we are close to the sector and we know how much this sector works, the only objective is that it has a better income. That is what we need to work on. I still wish him an excellent Libramont fair, even if the heart is not there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u53	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that a self-employed person's statutory basic pension is not really a matter of writing home. It is therefore a good thing that self-employed people can save themselves in order to build up an additional pension. They can do so through the free supplementary pension for self-employed persons, but also through a second pension pillar for self-employed persons. So far, however, it is only suitable for self-employed managers. Real self-employed natural persons, who do not work with a company, do not have the opportunity to register in a second pension pillar and therefore have to build up that supplementary pension within the 80% rule of tax favor regime, as exists for self-employed managers. This is an inequality that needs to be eliminated. We have asked this a few times in the past few months. At the end of last year, when discussing the policy paper and statement, you said that you would take the necessary steps to bring that regime into line and provide for that second pension pillar for genuine self-employed natural persons. I understand that you have taken steps in this direction and would have launched the proposal for the Council of Ministers to provide that supplementary pension second pillar for self-employed natural persons with effect from 2017. I read this morning in a newspaper article that it is assumed that this option of supplementary pension would only be interesting for self-employed people with a net wage of more than EUR 30 000. I am asking myself questions. I assume that the second pension pillar applies to any self-employed natural person. We want every self-employed person and we want the second pension pillar for self-employed natural persons to be set up in the same way, in other words with the same modalities and the same tax favor regime as for self-employed managers. Can you give some more information and explanation on the proposal you have submitted? I assume that this is effectively a complete equivalence between self-employed natural persons and self-employed managers. Secondly, how much does that proposal cost and when will it be introduced? I hope that it will not be contrary to the VAPZ and that the VAPZ will not first have to be fully paid up, so that they can only then rely on the second pension pillar, but that they can both be built up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u54	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, this is indeed an important decision. The self-employed natural persons will thus be able to conclude a second pension pillar similar to that of managers. The preliminary draft law adopted by the Council of Ministers is largely based on the supplementary pension for managers. The second pillar for self-employed natural persons is a long-awaited improvement in the pensions of the self-employed. It will allow thousands of self-employed people to supplement their statutory pension. I am therefore very pleased, together with Mr Bacquelaine, that the Council of Ministers has accepted our proposal. It was adapted to the situation of the self-employed natural person who organises his own supplementary pension. This is in contrast to managers with whom the legal person organises the supplementary pension. The second pension pillar for self-employed natural persons is in addition to the free supplementary pension for self-employed persons up to a maximum level of 80% of previous professional income. The link between the VAPZ and the second pillar pension for self-employed natural persons is, of course, one of the fiscal provisions, a competence of my colleague, the Minister for Finance. In order to benefit from the tax benefits for the new second pillar pension, the self-employed person will first have to sign a VAPZ agreement. There were around 692 000 self-employed persons in main occupation in Belgium at the end of 2014. Approximately 60% of the self-employed work as self-employed natural persons. There were around 155 000 self-employed persons in 2014 who paid contributions on an income from 2011 of 30 000 euros or more. Taking into account that not every self-employed person will want to build a second pillar pension, I think that in 2017 about 25 000 self-employed people will participate effectively. The budget is EUR 12 million on an annual basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u55	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I very much respect your efforts to improve the social status of the self-employed. You're doing a good job there. We would like to support you further. This is a new step towards improving the general pension of the self-employed on top of the statutory pension. I note that you are effectively saying that there will be a tie-up with the management system. The supplementary pension, the second pillar, is on top of the VAPZ, which allows a self-employed person to combine both within that 80 % standard. Surely that was important to us. I thank you and hope that we will soon come to the effective implementation of that rule.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u56	Madam Minister, you were in Paris, like me, last December for this important COP 21 agreement, which aimed to limit global warming to a maximum of 1.5 degrees Celsius. It was December. After the time of beautiful words and commitments comes the time of action. There is an urgent need, ladies and gentlemen. The six months between January and June 2016 have been the warmest ever recorded on the planet since 1880, the date of the first measurements. Madam Minister, what is the status of Belgium? To my knowledge, you have met with the climate ministers on Tuesday, but you have not yet been able to reach a transposition into the cooperation agreement for burden sharing. But you will specify the elements of the information in your response. The only decision that has been made, it seems, is to see you again in August. It's a little short! My second question is about the distribution of the effort for 2030, not 2020. Is it true, Madam Minister, as the press points out this morning, that you are scrapping against the objective set by the European Union for Belgium? Is it true that you are considering using a veto against this distribution? Is it true that you think that Europe's proposals are too ambitious, when you know that this is not enough? I can explain: the trajectories that Europe has imagined date from before the Paris Agreement, before the reference to a limit of warming set at 1.5 degrees Celsius. Is everything that has been said in the press today true from this point of view?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u57	Mr Nollet, your information is correct, we met with climate ministers this Tuesday morning very early. The Flemish Minister of Energy, Mr Bart Tommelein, joined us. There remains one point in the cooperation agreement which is the legal transposition of the policy agreement of 4 December 2015. There is still one point to be decided on a rather sophisticated document which contains more than the four pages of our political agreement, that is, about thirty pages which legally translate this agreement. This shows that it is not so easy to move from one to the other. The final point to be decided concerns the principle of solidarity between the regions in terms of valued exchanges, divestitures and purchases, possible surpluses in conformity units or in sources of renewable energy production. The idea is to find a mechanism that allows for a preemption or a preferred proposal between Regions in case of surplus to a percentage of the market value of compliance units or units of renewable energy sources. We are looking for the formula, which is why we asked the technicians to meet in August to make proposals. We will meet between ministers at the end of August to test the various possibilities, because this is the first time that such a system has been developed. You will admit that it is preferable for Belgium to achieve its objectives with solidarity between the different levels of power rather than allowing one or the other level of power to address first and foremost outside the Belgian house. I am not overly and vindictively scrapping with the European Commission. You know we're not in a bad position, we're not the bad students in the class. Our efforts have been recorded. Of course, the objective has been revised in a more ambitious way in Paris. We must therefore also adapt to that. [[However, instead of 38%, we are at 35%, and the regional environment ministers will continue their discussions with the European Union to adapt this objective to Belgian reality.]] In this context, you know the existence of the cost-efficiency coefficient, which makes it possible to refine the 35 % target and make it more realistic. This would lead to a value of about 32.5%. The goal is to take our responsibilities to achieve this effort by 2030.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u58	Madam Minister, you confirm in this forum that we are negotiating, certainly in a non-excessive manner as you say, to reduce what the European Union is asking you to do. Minister, stop considering the climate challenge as a constraint. It's an opportunity. When your administration came to Parliament on 19 July, presenting scenarios for a low-carbon Belgium, in the presence of some colleagues, she told us that if we set out an ambitious trajectory, there would be 80,000 more jobs in Belgium. This is not a constraint, but an opportunity to create jobs and reduce the energy bill. Every lost year will count double at the end of the day. Don't wait. Throw yourself into the battle of translating this ambition of Paris into action, rather than trying to curb it. Your job, as Minister of Sustainable Development, is to speed up the transition, not to slow it down, not to try to veto it or to reduce Europe's demand. On the contrary, the European trajectory was at 2° Celsius, and now it must be at 1.5° C: you yourself must defend, at European level, an improvement of the objectives, otherwise we will not be able to counter global warming.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u59	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u60	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Buysrogge, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u61	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, terrorism sows death and chaos loosely, savagely and brutally. Unfortunately, it does not happen a week, not a day without weeping the innocent victims of the murderous madness of Daesh's armed hands. Beyond marking ourselves in our flesh, these attacks are also a cowardly attack on the values of our pluralistic society: democracy, the rule of law, respect for fundamental rights and unity in diversity. We all agree that we must fight forcefully against all forms of terrorism and fundamentalism. We must deploy all necessary and useful means to prevent terrorism. We need to strengthen our security; it is more than obvious. But we insist that the fight against terrorism does not only require a security response. We must, of course, address some of the root causes that allow terrorism to find fertile soil. For example, there is an urgent need to combat discrimination better, to ensure equal opportunities in our democracies. I am also thinking of the absolute need to respect international law, international conventions, humanitarian law and refugee rights. Our States are States under the rule of law and must remain so, even in the face of barbarism. There can be no freedom without security and vice versa. Security without respect for the democratic principles of the rule of law is unacceptable. Our starting point is that no restrictions on fundamental rights are justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u62	Mr Crusnière, I obviously agree with you that we must collectively ensure that we better combat discrimination in general. It is thus a question of defending our values of tolerance and respect. However, I am a little surprised that you are making a link with the fight against discrimination as part of a project to combat terrorism. I imagine that you do not imply that it is because sufficient efforts have not yet been made, it is true, to combat discrimination that this necessarily induces terrorism. It is very calm and a little surprised that I see you presenting a cause and effect link in this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u63	Mr Ducrame, terrorism has a connection with a lot of things, as you know. Let me finish my speech and you will finally understand why I made this link. I'm not trying to convince you here. We will often remain on different ideological debates. Perhaps one day we can find ourselves on a whole series of things, but let me finish my demonstration and, at the end of it, you will understand why I talked about it. Undeniably, our starting point is that no restriction of fundamental rights is justified, unless it is necessary, proportionate, legitimate and even to ensure the security it is supposed to offer. Full use and in-depth evaluation of all current security and enforcement policies is required. An in-depth assessment of all existing security policies, measures and instruments is therefore needed to identify what works, identify weaknesses, identify any gaps or gaps and determine whether the measures are being implemented and used correctly. This is the objective of both the committee of inquiry and the special committee. This assessment is essential to identify the problematic areas and to determine the type of new measures needed, if any. Indeed, legislating in haste, under the guise of emotion, is not a guarantee of full efficiency. As with all security measures, three criteria must be considered in assessing their merits. The first criterion is relevance. Are the proposed measures appropriate, well-targeted and effective? The second criterion is proportionality, i.e. compatibility with public freedoms. Is there an appropriate balance between the objective pursued and the achievement of the exercise of the public freedoms of all citizens? The third criterion is feasibility. Are the measures applicable? Are the budgets and resources available sufficient to implement them? My group has repeated this repeatedly: in the area of terrorism, we will support all the texts that resist this triple analysis. It is on this basis, in particular, that we supported earlier the text ringing the end of the anonymity of prepaid telephone cards. Unfortunately, we cannot but regret the way in which the work was organized around this law containing various provisions. Indeed, the text on which the government received opinions from the Council of State in March and April, which was amputated from its main provisions, courageously evacuated to bills, finally landed on the benches of parliament only on 6 July, for a review in committee on 12 July, and a vote in the wake. We can ask ourselves huge questions. In matters as sensitive as those mentioned here, is this serious? What a disrespect for parliamentary work. What a deplorable view of the legislative work that, while the government took six months to draft a bill, a murderous criticism of the Council of State included, parliamentarians must not take more than 15 days to adopt a text that relates to pre-trial detention, under the fire of the criticism of the Council of State, and which affects freedom of expression, it would seem to be in contradiction with the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights – I will come back to that. At the end of the debate that followed the Minister's presentation of the draft, we are not more advanced, whether it is about the very reasons for the steps taken with regard to what is going back on the ground or how the objections of the Council of State are answered in the draft in its present form. Let us not reduce, please, the federal parliament to a simple chamber of endorsement! Having said that, we should not sum up this debate to a question of form; we should also talk about substance. First of all, why this worsening of the conditions of pre-trial detention for those accused of terrorist acts? In no way does the government explain how the current regime of pre-trial detention of these suspects constitutes a handicap to the upstream fight against terrorism. So far, there has been no evidence of a particular need for reform in this area. No assessment of the law is made available to demonstrate the need for the measure decided here. So, what? Would that not be a problem for the debate on police custody, which the majority is unable to decide within it. In a nutshell, and as the Human Rights League is particularly concerned about it, the Government is diverting the Penal Code from its purpose by using it as a means of preventing the commission of an offence rather than using it for the purpose of punishing it. It is a fundamental paradigm shift that it is incredible to pass without a real, in-depth debate informed by the words of many legal practitioners and theorists. That is why, in committee, we asked for hearings. The second aspect, which also deserves our attention, is the question of extending the concept of incentives. The draft abolishes, even in the case of indirect incentives, one of the constituent elements of criminalisation, i.e. the assessment on a case-by-case basis of the risk of a move to the act. This change affects one of the fundamental and major rights of our democratic rules: freedom of expression and restrictions on its exercise. This implies, on the basis of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, a careful examination of the legality of the text, its proportionality and its necessity. What do we have in this area? Unfortunately nothing. Worse still, the government project does not hesitate to violate both the Council of Europe Convention and the Directive, which was transposed into Belgian law by the Act of 18 February 2013. In the name of the fight against terrorism, these European texts have effectively limited freedom of expression, but by attaching this limitation to the condition of the judge's assessment of the risk of a move to act, a fortiori if no terrorist offence is committed in the wake of this indirect public incitement, which is not the case for criminalization. These are not minimal restrictions, we will agree. Building on violations of these conventions committed by other States does not make this project a good project. What about necessity? The government tells us that there are difficulties in interpreting Article 140bis in the current state of affairs. What's he relying on? We won't know. In any event, it will now be appropriate for everyone to be overly careful. Anyone publishing a furious "cow death" on their Facebook page, even if it does not lead to any follow-up, could, because of this text, be sentenced to between five and fifteen years in prison. That wouldn't be ruled out. Working in this way on such fundamental security issues is neither a guarantee of efficiency nor, much less, a serious one. For these reasons, my group abstained in committee. He will go further today by voting against this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u64	Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Crusnière a question. My group leader, Mr. Ducrame, is more agile than I am and he asked the question directly. You announced that we were going to understand why you linked terrorism and discrimination. I took note, I listened. You said you'd do a demonstration. You talked about pre-trial detention, the notion of incitement and freedom of expression. You talked about criminalization, but criminalization is not discrimination. After that, you didn't say a word of that. Your demonstration, I'm not going to force you to do it, but I'm still a little disappointed because you really started a debate and then then, plus a word.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u65	My introduction, Mr President and Mr Miller, dealt more broadly with the fight against terrorism in the broader sense. We have a text here. We've already had several, and we'll have more. We have a great deal of work done both in the special committee and in the committee of inquiry, and we will also have to deal with this subject. It also seems important to me. We're looking forward to it. I hope that the texts and the drafts will take place a little faster in this Parliament and, above all, that we will have time to analyse them calmly in a democratic debate, taking the time for reflection, with hearings if necessary. Indeed, that is what we missed in the context of this dossier. I am not going to go back to how this has happened, but I believe that the issues we are addressing today and globally in the fight against terrorism do indeed deserve calm debates, hearings and, above all, informed decision-making.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will make a brief statement on my bank. I would like to begin by saying that we have had a first terro-design, then a second and there is a third for discussion today. There are six articles and two in-depth opinions from the Council of State. I would also point out that the serenity that lived there last Wednesday in the discussion of this draft is in stark contrast to the indignation of some of us today. Last week we had the time. Moreover, the Terro Committee has no tradition of refusing all kinds of things. There are hearings, but of course they must be meaningful. We had two extensive opinions from the Council of State. I think it's a little short-sighted to make a fuss about that now. We should have done the same last week, and we should not have been happy with rapid, correct treatment. At that time the choice was made not to use the extra day that had been allocated for it, and I did not hear any protests against it. So I do not think that the attitude of some people is consistent. I'm getting to the point. I think that the TERRO III concept is an important design. It is a new step in the fight against the permanent threat of terrorism that exists today. It cannot be stressed enough that we expect a great deal from our Justice, our police and our security services in this fight. Well, if we expect them to protect us, to help us, to guard our society, then we must give them the necessary means to do so. This design does that. Colleagues, those who are not so much involved in criminal law may not know it, but our Criminal Code and criminal law are still dating from Napoleonic times. When the law was written, there was no threat of terror. Those incriminatings, the crimes that are included in them, are therefore totally out of the question. It is clear that today, with the threat there is, we are adapting the description of the crime and the procedures to current events. That is what the draft law does, after the Terro I and Terro II laws. I now hear that there are objections to the provisions relating to pre-trial detention. I invite those Members who have a problem with this today to read the opinion of the Council of State. I think they'll know enough. It is certainly important that the adjustments are made. What is very important to me is that the pre-attack phase should now be specifically endorsed with the description of the crime. The intention is to be able to intervene as soon as possible. The offences are very clear, so clear that almost no comment was made during the article-by-article discussion. So they were treated very quickly. I have also read Amnesty International's press releases today that our fundamental rights are being violated and freedoms are being lifted. As a lawyer, such a remark is a first reflex. I said that in committee too. I even understand that. If we adjust something, we are all immediately on our back legs, especially who has experience at the counter. But anyone who takes a close look at the text and the opinion of the Council of State will be able to see that the draft is balanced and that the rights of the defence are safeguarded. By the way, I would also remind you that today terrorists have much less respect for the rights of their victims than we expect to be given to them if they are arrested. No victim is asked to participate in any attack; no family is asked to participate before they are mowed off the road. It is particularly important for our group that action can now be taken at the stage leading up to the attack. We would rather avoid an attack than new victims. For us, prevention is still much better than cure. We will certainly support the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u67	Mr President, the Nice bombing on 14 July, as well as the axe attack on passengers on a train in Bavaria the day before yesterday, remind us once again how determined terrorists remain to spread terror throughout the world, from Istanbul to Paris, from Brussels to Tunis. The bill before us today is part of this government's desire to continue implementing the measures necessary to strengthen the fight against terrorism and its soil, radicalism. The federal government, aware of the need to provide our services with adequate material and legal capacity, has begun for more than a year and a half a year a vast project, the aim of which is to catch up with the backlog of recent years and to raise our level of security in the face of an ever-changing terrorist threat. The measures we have to vote on today are in addition to those adopted in recent months. Of the 30 measures presented by the federal government in January and November 2015, more than 20 have so far been adopted. The deployment of our military personnel near sensitive sites has become a reality. Their positive role was widely stressed in the work of our Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, both in terms of first aid and in terms of security and logistical support that they were able to provide on 22 March. Departures and returns from foreign fighters are now criminalized. The specific methods of research apply today to all terrorist offences. The authorities are now empowered to withdraw the identity card or passport of candidates at departure. We no longer allow a minute of respite to terrorists and their accomplices since we made it possible to search 24 hours a day. The circular foreign fighters and the law allowing for the establishment of dynamic data banks common to the various services involved in the fight against terrorism also facilitate the exchange and sharing of information concerning potential terrorists. This bill is important in more than one way. It enhances legal certainty by formally enshrining the competence of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office in terrorist cases. It updates our criminal arsenal, in particular to include recruitment to train foreign fighters and help them leave in the theatres of operations of jihadist organizations. It ensures that every terrorist offence committed against one of our compatriots abroad can be tried by our courts. There was, in fact, no reason why some perpetrators who met the legal criteria could be punished and others could escape the sanctions simply because certain terrorist offences were not covered by our legislation. It facilitates the work of our services, since it will enable them to act more effectively upstream in the context of pre-trial detention if there is sufficient evidence to conclude that it is appropriate to deprive an individual of his or her liberty because of his or her danger, while respecting the presumption of innocence and the criteria already applied to heavy offences punishable by more than 15 years' imprisonment. Some questioned the usefulness of aligning terrorist offences punishable by at least five years' imprisonment with ordinary offences punishable by at least fifteen years' imprisonment. The explanation given by the government is quite satisfactory. Terrorist offences are serious enough for us to be able to apply a special regime to serious offences relating to pre-trial detention. That is our profound opinion. Finally, the project has been tackling an increasing phenomenon in recent years: incitement to terrorism, particularly on the Internet. We know the role played on the web and social networks at this level. We know how much they are instrumentalized by Daesh and other terrorist organizations that use these levers to spread hatred and recruit. It was also appropriate to adapt legislation to make it more effective against the threat and to facilitate prosecution. We are not fully forward-thinking in this regard. The Luxembourgers and the French have introduced this element into their legislation. Having said that, minister, we would probably have gone further. We are talking here about incentives, indirect incentives. At the level of the Reform Movement, we have tabled a bill aimed at criminalizing and punishing the apology of terrorism. We will have this debate. There is the incentive, the indirect incentive. There is, of course, a difference: we must no longer prove that the act is going to materialize, but that the suspicions about it are largely sufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u68	Mr President, I agree with Mr Ducarme on the subject, making apology can be regarded as a preparatory act. The problem is, here we go further. Without a pre-trial act, we're incriminating. It is obviously dangerous and, to return to Mr Miller's question, it opens doors to everything and anything, including in the area of discrimination. It is in this sense that Stéphane Crusnière spoke. You have to be careful about what you do. At some point, in the absence of a pre-trial act, you open the door, including incriminations of facies, and in this sense it becomes dangerous. I agree with you that doing apology is a preparatory act. I have no problem with saying that, but for the rest, be careful about drifts! It seems to me that with the text proposed by the Minister of Justice, you open the door to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u69	Mrs Onkelinx, from our point of view, we believe that indirect incitement is an act that can lead to a dramatic situation. In the context of the finding related to this indirect incentive, we wish to protect our society, the Belgians, from attacks likely to occur at the start of a number of indirect incentives. So there's an act. Incitement as such is an act, given the sufficiently heavy suspicions in relation to the act. This in itself is quite different from the debate on apology. This is a proposal that we have tabled and that we want to see debated. As has been the case in France, Denmark or Spain, we want to see apology, promotion, terrorism – we are no longer inciting – criminalized as an offence of opinion. Fortunately, in our country, unlike other countries, we do not criminalize racist and anti-Semitic expressions. We believe that this law is an example. We should therefore sanction the crime of opinion, the apology of terrorism and therefore its promotion. That's why I'm telling the minister. This is not included – it could have been included – in this project. Indeed, we would have had an interesting debate, because the question is, of course, where freedom of expression stops. In case of racist or anti-Semitic words, freedom of expression stops there. I hope that the PS Group will be able, in the context of the debate we will have on this proposal, to join us on the need to introduce sanctions in our legislation relating to the apology of terrorism. As I said, this was done in Spain, France and Denmark; and this was validated by the European Court of Human Rights in 2008 with the Leroy/France judgment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u70	(...) used this weapon in the repression of racism and anti-Semitism, with the Moorish law and the anti-discrimination law. For this reason, I can follow you without any problem on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u71	Mrs Onkelinx I find that what has just happened is very positive to finish the session. For your information, we have asked that this proposal, which we tabled more than a year ago, be quickly put on the agenda of the Committee on the Fight against Terrorism. Mr Crusnière, I will not go back, or very little, to the fact that, indeed, we need to devote time, we need to have a calm debate. But if you say you've run out of time, I don't see why, as I said earlier, some people didn't want to use last Friday's day, in order to continue the work...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u72	Mr Ducrame, this Friday argument has already been heard several times. What I asked for in the committee on Wednesday – and the fellow Commissioners present are here to testify – is to have hearings, as we have had, among other things, for the amendment of Article 12 of the Constitution. They had been long and interesting. We also have laws on the financing of terrorism and on arms. What I am asking is that we also have hearings on this important text. The point isn't to be flabbusy. We would have liked to have the sector back in relation to these proposals. You know very well that in terms of organising committees, asking for hearings on Wednesdays for Fridays would really have been very complicated. Our requests for hearings were rejected by the majority. So stop that Friday argument that so-called was not used! We wanted to go much further. Other colleagues wanted to, too. The majority did not want these hearings. That's what happened. What was the point of continuing to discuss on Fridays, since, anyway, you were closed to everything?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u73	Frankly, I must tell you from the outset that I appreciate that, apart from an exception, we can debate today and vote on the draft because, whatever our opinion, we together believe that the sooner we can implement a number of measures such as this, the faster we do everything possible to raise our level of security. Indeed, the public expects us to be able to decide in one way or another on counter-terrorism measures. Of course, it is waiting for us to vote and move as quickly as possible to implement a number of measures. I know there have been criticisms - the committee did not meet sufficiently. Here, she's meeting. Honestly, it is true that the deadline for a project is not extremely broad, as the minister said. This project is specific on a number of points. It's not huge either. But I'm telling you, if I had been told "no" about a hearing, I wouldn't have given the minister the Friday present. As an opposition parliamentarian, I would have come to control it, to control it again. I would have questioned him and used the time allotted to me. Having said that, I note that there are a number of nuances in this draft that are sufficiently measured so that no group can formally oppose it. This was the case in the committee where some abstained. If we have to deal with new counter-terrorism measures – we have more than twenty – there will still be oppositions and tensions. Earlier, you talked about ideology. I hope they will be as little ideological as possible. However, in the light of the vote in committee, it is, in any case, by working together as much as possible that we will be able to meet the challenge of raising our level of security. We are doing this in the Committee on the Fight against Terrorism. The committee of inquiry will take part in its work, as it has already done with regard to the first part that we are analysing and concluding today. It is true that we need to put in place very sensitive measures to raise our level of security, reduce risks, reduce the threat and achieve a balance between freedoms and security. And, in my opinion, it is with the concern to work in a serene climate that we can achieve our common goal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u74	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the safety of our citizens is a political priority and of course one for the Ecolo-Groen Group, because it must represent a common good. We are all responsible for this. The fight against terrorism, which is discussed here, is part of this theme. As politicians, we must be able to respond. Several initiatives must contribute to the fight against terrorism and constitute an adequate political response to that phenomenon. Today we are discussing security measures, which are partly necessary. Of course, other very complex aspects need to be taken into account. We need to think about why young people in our home give in to the ISIS sirens and end up committing horrific attacks and acts. To sum up the message that we environmentalists are carrying, I believe that, for every euro we need to invest in safety, another must be invested in training, education and working in neighbourhoods with young people. This balance seems fundamental to us. On the basis of the measures presented in the bill, which have been analysed in a special commission to combat terrorism and which strengthen our repressive arsenal, we, as environmentalists, wanted several beacons to be laid. They must target these measures, which must not be used to run away from all our citizens, to be effective and respectful of our fundamental freedoms and human rights. This is important to us in all positions, in all our interventions on this subject. With respect to this bill, I would like to go back to how the work was conducted. At the beginning of the afternoon, we talked about the government's desire to force this text. This is how we felt it from the ecological benches, the benches of the opposition. Beyond the lack of time, beyond the pressure we have felt, it is the quality of our work that loses it. We have not had the opportunity to elaborate on this issue on these fundamental issues. This is not related to the number of articles. One can have a law with only one article, which is in itself fundamental. What we regret is the fact that we did not have the specific substantive debates, the fact that any request for a hearing was rejected with a back of hand, whether it was hearings of people we would have invited or written opinions that we would have asked for in committee. Yes, the context is heavy, difficult. We all remember the attacks of the last few months, the tragic scenes that we have seen thanks to the media. I am thinking in particular of the Nice bombing, for which we have kept a minute of silence today. These 84 deaths are terrible events and the context is extremely heavy in this regard. It is precisely this context that obliges us, as politicians, to carry out a work of in-depth reflection, a work with the actors on the ground, with civil society. This obliges us to take targeted and effective measures, to reject symbolism and emotion. Honestly, minister, I have the impression that this is what we did during these committee meetings. To conclude my introduction, I cannot help but quote Alain Grignard, an Islamologist, director of the federal police, a recognized specialist on all these issues of international terrorism related to jihadism. In a recent interview, he said: "Emotional has invaded everything. It's the victory of these people, terrorists. We're exactly where these people want to lead us. We have to give the word back to reason." Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that is really the impression we had in the discussions. Emotional and symbolic have taken over. We sincerely wish that you would have returned to reason by scheduling hearings, having a good debate, even if you had to finish it in September. For yes, in these matters, the time to conduct a quality debate is important. In more detail, I will also go back to some points. These are questions that I have already had the opportunity to ask you, minister, which relate to two specific sections of the bill. First, article 2. I will return to the questions raised in committee for which we have remained on our hunger after the answers you have given us. Article 2 changes legislation; it will no longer be necessary to prove that the incitement creates the risk that an offence may be committed. I have indeed asked you the question in relation to the basic wording of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, which imposes the criminalization of incitement to terrorism. I also asked you about the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. According to the Commission, freedom of expression requires that incitement creates a risk. It therefore recommends that the European Member States, of which Belgium is a member, take this criterion into account by the judge. You told me in committee that there is no mandatory factor; that is why this article is going through today. But once again, what about the demand of the actors on the ground? What is the absolute necessity? I am sorry, but the answers that have been given, whether by you or by colleagues in the benches of the majority, are not convincing, when these are rather fundamental changes in relation to the European Court of Human Rights, in relation to the Council of Europe Convention. These are not, however, recommendations on which we can sit without precise and detailed justification. The second article, which has been the subject of many debates and questions, is article 6, which amends the Pre-trial Detention Act and allows for none of the four conditions relating to pre-trial detention to be required to order a pre-trial detention of at least five years for a person suspected of a terrorist offence. I recall the four conditions: the risk of collusion with third parties, the risk of destruction of evidence, the risk of escape or subtraction from the proceedings of the court, the risk of recidivism. What is the request now from the field that a judge should not be able to prove one of these four conditions when it comes to a crime punishable by five years for terrorist offences? Is there no way to justify the risk of collusion, the risk of destruction of evidence, the risk of leakage? I even asked you if you could give us a case, without revealing any secrets of investigation, where this factor blocked the investigation in terms of combating terrorism, for which a request was made in response to these conditions and which would have restricted or prevented the work of justice. For me, this fundamental question has remained unanswered. We wish to draw attention to the fact that article 6 creates a difference in treatment between terrorist offences punishable by five years and other extremely serious penalties also punishable by five years and for which this would not apply. How can this imbalance be explained? I am thinking of the difference in treatment with someone who commits murder, someone who commits acts of rape, acts of paedophilia, extremely serious acts. Why is double standards in this case? In our view, you did not answer this question in a clear and detailed manner. Some here have talked about the return of ground that has taken place in recent days following the debates in committee last week. We deeply regret the way in which the discussions were held. In a heavy context, in the aftermath of attacks that shocked all of us, we regret the way in which these debates took place. We are moving on to measures that are profoundly changing our legal arsenal. As it stands, our group cannot support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us contains good intentions, with which we agree to a large extent. Mrs De Wit, I would like to make an improvement. At last Wednesday's committee meeting, there were indeed concerns about the speed with which this law was presented and about the urgency being called for. Unfortunately, no major debate has preceded this draft law. On the other hand, we do not wish to delay further the approach to the radicalisation that exists, which is also unfortunate. Certain elements were deleted after the Council of State had given its opinion, instead of revising them. Although there have been proposals for months, the debate has not been held. With the approval of the urgency, we still have to decide today. The result is an amputated proposal, while an earlier and more thorough preparation could have avoided that. In substance, we hope that these few deleted parts can be re-examined in an in-depth debate. We want to contribute constructively to thorough debates on the deleted parts, taking into account the comments made by the Council of State. We also call for caution, as we did in committee. The extension of the conditions of pre-trial detention may also create frustrations. This can lead to new radicalisation, and that is exactly what we want to avoid.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u76	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, as we have said on several occasions, and again a year ago, whenever the government tackles terrorism, we will be at its side. We have largely demonstrated this through votes in favour of the various projects he has put forward. In addition, we have proved this by tabling several bills relating to the deprivation of nationality, the removal of identity cards and the criminalization of persons who go to fight abroad. In addition, my colleagues Georges Dallemagne and Catherine Fonck have also tabled a bill on a return centre. With each new attack, we discover other modus operandi. We are constantly obliged to adapt our legislation to address several concerns as some new techniques are used. This is, moreover, the purpose of the Special Commission on Combating Terrorism, which has been working on numerous thematic hearings for months. Whether for prepaid cards or for this bill with various provisions, we have announced that we will support you. Of course, we are issuing a few flats, which I have already listed for you in committee. We have the impression that decisions are made in an extremely sausageed way – if you pass the phrase on to me. With regard to the definition of criminality, the Van Cauter and De Wit bills were referred to the Council of State. In addition, I hear Mr.Ducarme, saying with some regret in the voice that the minister did not take into consideration his proposals for legislation criminalizing the apology of terrorism. These texts and yours deal with the same subject, but are not dealt with at the same time. Admit that this is a little messy and it prevents parliamentarians from having an overall vision. In this case, since the beginning, we have accused you of moving forward on a case-by-case basis by responding by means of measures to each attack in Belgium or elsewhere, instead of anticipating the fight against terrorism. I also heard Mr.Ducarme say that you had issued 30 measures and that some 20 had been implemented. Twenty in eighteen months, since January 2015! Of course, before January 2015, this government had been formed, and he could work. Each time we get answers on a one-on-one basis, or reactions. Sometimes we see increases in budgets, which, most of the time, have been sold – excuse me the phrase – about ten times: "The 400 million will be allocated to this, to this." It is felt that the $400 million has already been allocated ten times by the government. These 400 million are not recurrent; we know that. They do not feed the security services adequately, whether they are police, justice, intelligence services or OCAM. There is a clear sense that this government responds on a case-by-case basis, whether in terms of legislation or the financing of the fight against terrorism. We can regret this lack of a comprehensive vision, which is long-term and spans several years. It is true that we must react on an ad hoc basis at certain times, but these ad hoc measures would then be in addition to a line of strength which the government would have determined, and to which it would cling, with precise financial means and staff resources. That is the reproach we have been making for you since the beginning of the fight against terrorism, which you have launched relatively slowly, and even very slowly. I'll remind you of last year's episode. On 20 July we are voting on important proposals for which I had tabled with Georges Dallemagne, in early January 2015, three identical files that you did not want to take up. We could have settled this in a month and won six! Prepaid cards are an important topic for us. We wanted this provision, but we realize that we are already completely overwhelmed by the facts. In July 2015, Minister of Justice, you said it was an essential issue. It took a year for him to come to the government table. We are always overwhelmed by the facts. I know you're not responsible for this, Minister Middle Class, but it was you who said it was important. I hope you're still part of this government, unless I've missed a step. I just saw the Minister of Justice do "half," or he's not sure. It's a scoop to pick up! It took you a year to implement a fundamental project, but completely overtaken by the facts. Indeed, the techniques of communication between terrorists are different now. Of course, we will vote on this. Of course, it is essential. But again: a year to get to something! In the same way, it took you seven months to file the other three projects last year. Let us acknowledge that this does not seem to be very effective on the part of a government that is fighting terrorism on a permanent basis. It's a bit like, "Walking arms, I'm trying to put forward a few proposals." We regret the lack of proactivity and, above all, the lack of long-term vision that combines prevention, repression and taking into account all the phenomena related to the fight against terrorism. I see you smiling, but in a mixed way. We feel – and it is more than a feeling – that the debates in committee have been a little chaotic at times. Your projects are interesting separately, but what is the lead? It would be time for this government to present its course of action to Parliament at the beginning of the year, and not only to act on a case-by-case basis, in response to an attack: quickly hand over a small budget, quickly make a disposition. It's really time for the government to get up. I heard Mr. Ducrame say that it is important that the opposition be involved in the work. We do not feel that we have been really involved in these matters, since every time we have made a proposal or tabled an amendment, it has been swept away with one back of our hands. We regret that in Belgium we have not been able to join a form of national union, which is so important in the fight against terrorism. More specifically, on the file before us, you say every time: "I no longer know what to do. You tell me I'm going too fast, or you tell me I'm going too slowly." No. You go too slowly to file projects and you want them to be examined too quickly, that is, in 48 hours, in a few days. We have to wait for projects seven or eight months, or even a year, and then we are asked to analyse them in two or three days. These are fundamental projects which, in some respects, are, as we know, at the limit of the infringement of rights and freedoms. As such, these projects need to be seriously considered. As for the provision on pre-trial detention, I would like you, Mr. Minister of Justice, to tell us precisely how this provision responds to a request from the investigating judges. All members of this assembly are waiting for this answer. Does this provision come from the examining magistrates? I do not think so because we have heard them in a special committee. There was no specific request on this point. How does the current legislative framework not allow for effective preventive detention? Was there, at some point, a flaw, something that made an investigating judge say, "Here I am short. I don't have the legislative arsenal I need to keep someone in custody." I really ask you to answer that question. We put it to you in committee. You said it was necessary but you did not bring any substantive arguments in relation to that. If you tell us that it is a request of the investigating judges who are deprived, in this case, this provision must of course be voted on. But, for the moment, we do not have any evidence on this subject. That's why I wish you could answer that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u77	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the fight against terrorism must be our top priority. The tragic attack in Nice, for which we observed a minute of silence at the beginning of the sitting in tribute to the victims, reminded us of this. My group has always supported the government in this regard. However, this does not prevent me from regretting the way in which the government intends to legislate on this matter. While your time to reflect on the best response to terrorism is taken into account in months, which is normal given the fundamental rights and freedoms at stake, the time for reflection that you impose on Members is taken into account in days. This way of working does not in any way guarantee our mission of monitoring government action, let alone on such a sensitive subject where the balance between security and freedom is fundamental. In substance, my group will support some of your initiatives, such as the extension of terrorist offences for which recruitment for terrorist purposes is penalized, and the extension of the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the judge. The same applies to the jurisdiction of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, whose mission was to be clarified as a matter of urgency. This support is further reinforced by the fact that the relevant articles have been adapted following the opinion of the Council of State and are based on the relevant French and German legislation. On the other hand, we regret that hearings could not take place on the provisions on indirect incitement to terrorism and pre-trial detention. With regard to the first provision, namely article 2, it would therefore no longer be necessary for conduct to create the risk that a terrorist offence might be committed, since proof of that element was difficult to provide. I would therefore like to ask you whether the evidence of indirect incitement to terrorism that you are introducing here will be easier to provide. In all cases, it is clear from the Council of Europe Convention, the European Union Framework Decision and the case law of the European Court of Human Rights that the risk is essential if the conditions for the infringement are to be fully met. The Conseil d'État has also warned you of the risk of creating an over-extended criminality that could thereby undermine the element of guilt, which is an essential element of any offence. Finally, the Council concluded that article 2 runs counter to the principle of legality in criminal matters, which requires that criminal law be formulated in terms that allow everyone to know, at the time of adopting his or her conduct, whether or not he or she is reprehensible. With regard to article 6 on pre-trial detention, only the absolute necessity for public security will be sufficient to justify pre-trial detention for sentences of more than five years, rather than fifteen years as at present. It will therefore no longer be necessary to demonstrate that one of the other conditions for the application of pre-trial detention, namely the risk of committing new offences, leaks, disappearance of evidence or collusion, is fulfilled. As regards the deprivation of liberty, which must in essence be exceptional, I would like to express my regret at the fact that hearings could not have been held in order to identify the real need for such a legislative amendment. To mention only the hearings held in the Constitutional Review Committee on the extension of custody to 48 hours or even 72 hours, they showed how interesting a priori proposals could ultimately prove to be significantly problematic with regard to fundamental rights and freedoms. For this reason, my group will not support this provision and will abstain from the whole text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u78	Mr President, first of all I would like to express my condolences to all the victims of the acts of terror in Nice, Brussels, Paris, Orlando, Baghdad and Istanbul. We agree that we must be able to fight terrorism. The question that arises is how we can take up that battle. Everyone agrees on the need for an urgent and compelling struggle, but the government must not take the shock after the attacks to chase anything through the Chamber, expecting everyone to nod yes. The suffering of the attacks is great, all the more reason not to conduct this debate lightly. However, it seems to us that the government is doing the opposite, but I will come back to that later. In our view, the most important questions are rarely asked. Are we doing the right thing? Will new measures prevent further attacks? What exactly is wrong with the existing legislation? I think what happened in Nice should get us thinking. Unfortunately, the incident in Nice shows that security policy is not effective against terrorism. Many measures have already been taken in France and laws against terrorism have been passed. The state of emergency has just been extended in France for a few more months. And yet, we could not avoid this attack in Nice. We must have a debate on whether these measures are useful and whether they can be used in the fight against terrorism. What exactly is wrong with the existing legislation? Since the attacks in New York in 2001, Madrid and London, European countries already have a very extensive range of measures against terrorism. For example, British scientist Ben Hayes has added all measures against terrorism adopted in Europe since 12 September 2001. This resulted in 239 laws and measures adopted, of which a large proportion are in Belgium. That's a huge number. No European measure against terrorism can be determined whether it works effectively. That is the main aspect. Probably the kite is also responsible for several measures that were also taken nationally. There is no doubt that the existing legislation offers scope for tackling terrorism. So my question is how all the instruments already in place are used and what the result is. How many recruiters have been prosecuted? How many hate sites have been shut down? Was an effective judicial investigation launched against any returned Syrian warrior? And so on. The PVDA calls for an audit of all existing measures against terrorism and calls for careful consideration before announcing yet another new measure. After all, many terrorist experts do not only doubt the effectiveness of the measures but consider many of them to be downright counterproductive, especially in the field of collect it all, foreign interventions and high-tech spy stuff. In this context, I refer to the resolution tabled by the PVDA, and of course my fellow Members have received, on an effective and democratic fight against terrorism. We do not know of many measures whether they are effective and used, they may even be counterproductive. We do know, however, that many anti-terrorist measures take the course of the democratic rule of law and fundamental human rights, in particular the separation of powers, the law on freedom of opinion, freedom of association and the right to privacy. That is not just the PVDA, that says mass official bodies, professors, lawyers, investigators and human rights activists. More specifically, on the measures proposed today, the following. I think it would be important to do an audit to assess the effectiveness of all the measures already taken to date. That's what's really missing. I am thinking, for example, of the measure concerning prepaid cards. It is a secret to no one that these terrorists will use other encrypted ways to communicate with each other, via Viber or WhatsApp. Even through PlayStation, they can send encrypted messages. It is a glamour to believe that by the kind of measures presented today, we can effectively combat terrorism. There is also the debate on the definition of terrorism, yet another. Colleagues have already said it; in the past, the initiation of terrorism was only punishable if it led to the risk of an attack. This amendment of the law no longer requires a risk; inciting one of those offences is punishable by five years, even if that initiative does not involve a risk to the commission of the facts. This comes in straight line from France and Luxembourg. Of course, I am somewhat concerned about this, because by extending that definition further, the question arises as to whether this could create problems with regard to freedom of expression. I repeat what I said earlier, namely what Amnesty International said about it: "The draft restricts freedom of expression and uses criminal law as a preventive instrument. In La Libre Belgique, Claude Debrulle, Honorary Director-General of the Directorate-General for Legislation, Freedoms and Fundamental Rights of the SPF Justice, said this week: "It is an infringement of freedom of expression. The Belgian government, like France and Luxembourg, departs from the case law of the European Court of Human Rights." He concludes: "It is legitimate to ask whether the Belgian government does not fall into the trap set yesterday by Al-Qaida, today by Daesh, by multiplying rapid security policies that fuel jihad rather than contain it". That's a bit of a question today. We already have a whole arsenal. We'd like to know if it's not enough. We have talked sometimes about incitement to commit terrorist acts, but we already have laws that condemn racist speech and incitement to hatred. Why is this legislation not being used? Why should we want to go further when we do not even know the effectiveness of the current provisions? In analysing the events in Nice, I think that if we want to win this fight against terrorism, we will have to lead and win the political fight against the ideas and the soil that allow these terrorists today to radicalise in seven days, in the case of Nice. We are no longer even in the presence of terrorists who went to train in Syria or who the French files knew. We are even in the presence of fools who respond globally to an international call for jihad. I think that today we must be able to focus on this political struggle, according to which we must not enter into this Daesh trap. Let us be very clear! The aim of Daesh is obviously not to win militarily against the armies of our countries, but rather to win politically through polarization of our societies. Therefore, we would do much better to focus all our energy on solving the substantive problems, the political problems of combating such hate speech, rather than believing that we will succeed through repression. I believe that, unfortunately, the various examples of France and others show that we will not succeed in doing so. That is why our group will vote against the measures proposed today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this gradual implementation of the legislation, as we are sometimes accused of, is a result of the abondante case law which is being dropped in our country in the field of terrorism. In no other European country has so many judgments and judgments been taken since 2012. Each time, our services, our prosecution service, are studying the case and showing us that there are some shortcomings in our legislation. From then on, from the decision on Sharia4Belgium, from the decision taken following the events in Verviers, we are studying and expanding certain criminalities to better combat terrorism. Do not say that what we do is not effective! My second point relates to human rights, which are extremely important. On them, we were made to understand that we were setting the border a little too far or that we were placing the bar at a totally intolerable level. In my view, for a man of common sense imbued with the fundamental values of our society, in terms of privacy and human rights, this border lies in the place where it places it from the moment when its fellow citizens were killed in a completely arbitrary manner. In doing so, I am led to think that we have done the right thing. However, with regard to the discussion we had on incitement to terrorism and risk, Mrs Onkelinx, there was no question of preparatory acts. That was incitement to terrorism. The question is whether the risk should form part of the elements of the infringement. We should be aware that, in view of what is provided for in the European Union Framework Decision and in the Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, this risk should no longer be part of the elements of the offence. The European Court of Human Rights requires that, with a view to the judgement on proportionality, the judgement should be placed in relation to the risks but should not require a link with terrorist offences. The real risk of a move to action, which some of you would like to see maintained, is also not foreseen by the legislation on racism and incitement to hatred. Mr Crusnière, does the PS believe that the "racism" law should be amended to restrict it and to foresee, again, the real and concrete risk as an element of incitement to racism or hatred? Mr President, the time is late and I think everyone is tired. At least that's what I'm seeing. I have answered the questions as these are new questions, because most of the questions asked have already been addressed to me in the committee, particularly with regard to pre-trial detention. Mr Vanden Burre and Mr Crusnière, Mrs Matz, you rested these questions, saying that I had not given any background. That's not true. I gave you the example of young men whom you know and whose name I did not want to mention, who do not present a risk of recidivism or collusion. However, in relation to public order, even if the acts they have committed do not deserve a sentence of more than 15 years, they pose such a problem that their pre-trial detention is justified by this element. I believe I have demonstrated this and said it several times. Mr. President, I've said everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u80	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u81	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1951/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1951/4) The draft law has 6 articles. The bill has six articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u82	• 2 – Gilles Vanden Burre cs (1951/5) Annex V.Part • 3 – Gilles Vanden Burre cs (1951/5) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u83	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u84	By letter dated 5 July 2016, the European Parliament's Ecolo Green Group informed me that Mr Kristof Calvo was appointed as group chairman from 1 September 2016. By letter of 5 July 2016, the Ecolo-Groen Group of the House informed me of the appointment of Mr Kristof Calvo as group chairman from 1 September 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u85	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I consider them to be adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals will be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 July 2016, I also propose that you consider: - the motion for a resolution (Mr Muriel Gerkens, Mrs Anne Dedry and Mr Evita Willaert, Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mr Marcel Cheron, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, Mrs Meyrem Almaci and Mr Georges Gilkinet) on the fight against vector disease carriers and on the prevention and control of vector diseases in humans, which are advancing through climate change and globalisation, 1981/1. - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Karin Jiroflée and Mrs Monica De Coninck) on the updating of legislation on the termination of pregnancy and the prevention of unplanned and unwanted pregnancies, No. 1989/1. Sent to the Commission for Health, the Environment and Social Renewal - the bill (Mrs Griet Smaers) introducing a statute for the student entrepreneur, No. 1992/1. Sent to the Commission for Business, Science Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Agriculture - the bill (Mr Stefaan Vercamer and Mr Roel Deseyn) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 as regards the additional tax exemption for pensions and replacement income, No. 1993/1. Sent to the Finance and Budget Committee - the legislative proposal (Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke) amending the law of 6 August 1931 establishing the incomparencies and denials concerning ministers, former ministers and ministers of State, and the members and former members of the legislative chambers, with a view to establishing a buffer period of 18 months after the termination of the political functions of former ministers, chiefs of the cabinet or deputy chiefs, No. 1994/1. Sent to the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 July 2016, I also propose that you take into account: - the motion for a resolution (Ms Muriel Gerkens, Anne Dedry and Evita Willaert, MM. Wouter De Vriendt, Marcel Cheron, Jean-Marc Nollet and Stefaan Van Hecke, Ms Meyrem Almaci and Mr Georges Gilkinet) on vector control, prevention and control of vector-borne diseases in humans increasing with climate change and globalisation, No 1981/1. - the motion for a resolution (Ms Karin Jiroflée and Monica De Coninck) to update the legislation on termination of pregnancy and to prevent unwanted and unplanned pregnancies, No 1989/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u86	- the proposal for a law (Ms Griet Smaers) establishing a statute for student-entrepreneurs, No. 1992/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u87	- the bill (MM. Stefaan Vercamer and Roel Deseyn) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 with regard to the reduction of additional tax on pensions and replacement income, No. 1993/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u88	- the bill (MM. Gilles Vanden Burre and Stefaan Van Hecke) amending the Act of 6 August 1931 establishing incompatibilities and prohibitions concerning ministers, former ministers and ministers of State, as well as members and former members of the Legislative Chambers, in order to introduce a buffer period of 18 months after the cessation of their political duties for former ministers, heads of cabinet or deputy heads of cabinet, No. 1994/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u89	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would also like to propose the motion for a resolution (Mr Richard Miller) calling for the protection of minors from the negative effects of unhindered access, via the Internet, to more specifically violent pornographic content, No. 1991/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u90	I also propose that you take into account the motion for a resolution (Mr Richard Miller) to protect minors from the negative effects of unimpeded Internet access to pornographic content, particularly of a violent nature, No 1991/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u91	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u92	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Finance and Budget Committee on 12 July 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Finance and Budget Commission of 12 July 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 150/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Stéphane Crusnière and Ahmed Laaouej; - a simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Gautier Calomne, Gilles Foret and Eric Van Rompuy. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 150/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Stéphane Crusnière and Mr Ahmed Laaouej; A simple motion was tabled by Mr Gautier Calomne, Mr Gilles Foret and Mr Eric Van Rompuy. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u93	Yes 77 Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Mr Beke voted in favour. Waarvan akte.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u94	This inquiry was developed in public meeting of the Commission on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society on 12 July 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Health, the Environment and the Social Renewal of 12 July 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 159/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Muriel Gerkens; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Els Van Hoof and by Messrs. Dirk Janssens et Jan Vercammen. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 159/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Muriel Gerkens; A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Els Van Hoof and Mr Dirk Janssens and Mr Jan Vercammen. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u95	Yes 79 Yes No. [[55]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u96	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service of 13 July 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 13 July 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 153/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Emir Kir; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Sarah Smeyers. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 153/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Emir Kir; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sarah Smeyers. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u97	Yes [[80]] Yes No. 56 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u98	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service of 13 July 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 13 July 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 160/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Emir Kir; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koenraad Degroote. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 160/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Emir Kir; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Conseil Degroote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u99	Yes [[80]] Yes No. 56 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u100	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 93 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 42 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1920/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1920/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u101	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[80]] Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1941/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1941/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u102	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 89 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 44 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1950/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1950/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u103	Vote on Amendment No 7 by Ahmed Laaouej cs on Article 2. (1738/11) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to Article 2. (1738/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes [[46]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 8 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to Article 7. (1738/11) Vote on Amendment No 8 of Ahmed Laaouej cs to Article 7. (1738/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u104	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Mr. Scourneau voted against. Vote on Amendment No 1 by Marco Van Hees cs to omit Article 10. (1738/11) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Marco Van Hees cs to delete Article 10. (1738/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[22]] Yes No. 90 No Abstentions 25 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 4 by Georges Gilkinet cs on article 10. (1738/11) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Article 10. (1738/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes [[55]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Catherine Fonck cs on article 18. (1738/11) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Catherine Fonck cs to Article 18. (1738/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 54 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 18 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 18 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 3 by Catherine Fonck cs on article 21. (1738/11) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Catherine Fonck cs to Article 21. (1738/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u105	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Georges Gilkinet cs on article 21. (1738/11) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Article 21. (1738/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 44 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 21 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 21 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u106	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 82 Yes No. 56 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1738/16) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1738/16)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u107	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u108	Mr President, my group is not opposed to the search for statutory and monetary solutions to allow the transfer of certain military personnel declared unfit by the army or to respond to the glaring lack of candidates in certain trades, such as medical occupations. That is why we do not reject this whole project. However, a passage from the strategic vision presented by the Minister strongly challenges us. We were able to read a sentence which, for us, is unambiguous, I quote: "We are going to focus more and more on our military tasks. Other tasks will be outsourced to partners as far as possible." For us, this amounts to a privatisation of a regal function, which the PS condemns. In addition, this government once again overwhelms the BDL status. Under the previous legislature, the PS supported the new term status as an option that should be offered to recruits who wished to do so. Today, this working group has literally disguised this possibility as an obligation, since 100 per cent of new volunteers are now on fixed-term status. For my group, this is unacceptable and it is not possible to hold military office in this way. This project further distorts this status and opens a dangerous Pandora's box for the future. For these reasons, we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u109	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 103 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 35 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1928/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1928/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u110	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1933/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1933/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u111	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (958/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (958/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u112	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1863/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1863/04) Mrs Demir and Mr Pivin voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u113	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 134 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1902/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1902/4) Mrs Almaci voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u114	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1903/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1903/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u115	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1904/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1904/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u116	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1960/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1960/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u117	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1961/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1961/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u118	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 24) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1958/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1958/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? (Non) Mrs de Coster-Bauchau voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u119	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 25) Yes [[84]] Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 1868/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 1868/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u120	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 26) Yes 79 Yes No. 56 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 1628/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 1628/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u121	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 27) Yes [[113]] Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1887/11) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1887/11) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u122	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 28) Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1572/10) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1572/10)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u123	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 29) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (211/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (211/5) Mr Werner Janssen voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u124	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 30) Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1067/8) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1067/ 8)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u125	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (860/8) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (860/8) Mr Calvo has voted yes. We take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u126	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 32) Yes 93 Yes No. 34 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1889/7) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1889/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u127	Mrs Temmerman and Mrs Kitir have voted yes. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u128	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 33) Yes 136 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1964/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1964/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mr Laaouej voted yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u129	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Eric Massin cs on Article 2. (1944/5) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Eric Massin cs to Article 2. (1944/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 34) Yes [[35]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u130	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 35) Yes 117 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1944/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1944/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u131	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Gilles Vanden Burre cs to omit Article 2. (1951/5) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Gilles Vanden Burre cs to delete Article 2. (1951/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 36) Yes [[35]] Yes No. 91 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 3 by Gilles Vanden Burre cs to omit Article 6. (1951/5) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Gilles Vanden Burre cs to delete Article 6. (1951/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 37) Yes 44 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u132	Goede collega, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when we are almost at the end of our work, I would like to ask briefly for your attention. I think I can say that our Assembly has once again had a very busy session. I will be careful not to overwhelm you with various information and fortuitously with numbers. However, I would like to remind you that we have adopted a number of important texts, particularly in the context of the reform of the justice system. The reform of supplementary pensions, tax shift, public procurement and the reform of Belgian Development Cooperation have also been the subject of extensive legislative work. In my end-of-year speech to this assembly seven months ago, I said that there were major challenges for 2016 in terms of collective security and the defence of our values. Unfortunately, the attacks in Brussels and Zaventem, on 22 March, were a painful confirmation of this. On 14 April, the Court adopted a draft law on additional measures to combat terrorism. On the same day, the Terrorist Attacks Committee began its investigation. Meanwhile, the Temporary Committee on Terrorism, which was set up immediately after the attacks in Paris, continued its work. There was also a special committee on Dieselgate and the special committee on Panama Papers. Very recently, the Optima Committee of Inquiry was also established. The debates we have held in this hemisphere, ladies and gentlemen, have sometimes been intense, sometimes even bitchy. Questions that determine the future of the population simply create emotions. The fact that these emotions can be expressed in this hemisphere is, in fact, self-evident in a democratic system. As it goes without saying, in the end, through quality work and a constructive attitude, we are providing lasting answers to the increasingly numerous challenges facing our society. I have also noticed that, at times when things are really being sharpened, such as this afternoon's debate on Turkey, we can set aside the differences and fall back on what binds us, namely democracy. My thanks go to the clerk, the staff and the staff of our assembly. Their continued skill and dedication has enabled us to carry out our work in the best possible conditions. I would also like to thank journalists and press workers for their presence and media coverage of our work. Finally, I thank the military commander and the staff responsible for the security of the Palais de la Nation: we highly appreciate the considerable efforts they have been making for many months. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you and your family a pleasant and virtuous holiday, and I expect you all, well-equipped and with fresh courage, on Thursday 15 September in this hemisphere for the first plenary session. 15 September, indeed, Mr Nollet. That's new. From now on, the committee meetings will take place from 1 September and the plenary sessions will take place from 15 September. I also wish the government, the two ministers present and the government staff an excellent and invigorating holiday. Colleagues, good luck to you all. Enjoy it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u133	Thank you, Mr. Degroote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u134	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this session has indeed been full: full of our work, of our exchanges, of our decisions, of our laughter sometimes, of our songs more rarely and of our emotion often. Yes, emotion, sadness, anger at the violence and intolerance that draw a future lined with black crepe. We have been constantly working to provide answers, to show our solidarity with the victims of barbaric acts, to better protect our people and at the same time to call on the citizens not to fall into the trap of hatred and to move on with life as before, or almost. In Italy, Matteo Renzi promoted culture as an answer to savagery and inhumanity and we applauded it. As far as we are concerned, we have done better here in this House by using culture as a weapon of our exchanges. Few parliaments can say the same. I'll leave you to judge. I take a random example, namely the June 30th session. Private Miller opened the hostilities with Churchill and his post-war European dream. The result was a heavy fire between him and his co-religionary Sebastian Pirlot with for bullets extracts from William Shakespeare's The Dream of a Summer Night. The future will tell us if this exchange does not hide a more complex problem. Remember this exchange in the above-mentioned room between Helena and Hermia, one magnet Demetrius, the other preferring Lysandre. "The more I love him," one said, "the more he hates me," and the other said, "the more I hate him, the more he chases me." Anyway, Richard Miller and Sebastian Pirlot may be closer than they seem. Later, the same soldier Miller evokes Renan, to make the ropes of European nationalism vibrate. Strange choice revealing that this one, if we keep in mind what George Sand might have said about him: "Renan struggles to repair with one hand what he destroys with the other." Luckily, Patrick Dewael came forward and took Edmond Rostand out to help his combat companion: "It is the night that it is beautiful to believe in the light," he bombed. Yes, isn't everything an eternal repetition, doing and undoing, is it not the march of history? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have also had Members of Parliament who venture to quote politically and culturally without letting go of their ideological beliefs. Dirk Van der Maelen chooses his idol Piketty, Olivier Maingain for Cohn-Bendit and Raoul Hedebouw for his muse Neelie Kroes. But the climax of cultural audacity, the palm, comes back to two men of this assembly, Peter De Roover and Sevais Verherstraeten, who, on that day, cited a monument of Dutch national culture: Johan Cruyff. You had to dare! We all have in mind Cruyff's list, perhaps one of the best football players in history, who made him endorse the nickname of El Salvador, Verlosser. Our colleagues have opened our eyes and ears to Johan:elk nadeel heeft zijn voordeel's revolutionary thought. Every disadvantage has its advantage. Thanks to them, sport is now an integral part of our cultural response to world disorder. And together we can assume suspensions of sessions, sudden absences of contradictors, short commissions during matches that make the national culture vibrate. This will allow Mrs. La Graffière and all the staff, extraordinary once again during this arid session, and for journalists who are sometimes forced to run like rabbits between ordinary, special or investigative commissions to meet with us to enjoy the beautiful moments of communion that we all need. In the meantime and on behalf of Parliament, I wish everyone and everyone excellent well-deserved holidays. I wish you all a nice, well-deserved holiday.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Onkelinx.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u136	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip124x.u137	Yes 101 Yes No. [[35]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1951/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1951/6) The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 15 September 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 15 September 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
