ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic363x.u1	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, my question is very brief. It is a question of the state of play of the report of federal poverty officials on a study they have made on automatic rights allocation. That study should be completed somewhere in January 2016. What are the results? What consequences will be given to the study?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic363x.u2	Madam President, Mrs Willaert, my answer is not very long either. Firstly, you know that automatic allocation of rights is an important point for me. Unfortunately, however, I have to wait for the next meeting of the network of federal poverty officials, which is scheduled to take place in mid-April 2016. At that meeting, the principle or draft of the third federal poverty reduction plan will be discussed. At the end of 2015, federal poverty officials were asked to make proposals on evaluating or automating social rights. These proposals have meanwhile been collected by the PPS Social Integration. In the meantime, they are also bundled in a draft paper. However, that note should also be discussed and evaluated at that meeting of the federal poverty officials in mid-April 2016 before it will be submitted to me. At the moment, I don't have that report yet. I cannot therefore answer your question in full. I await the discussion at the meeting of federal poverty officials, which will continue in the month of April 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic363x.u3	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I have one more question in the margin. We have already had an exchange of views on the resolution I tabled. I have proposed to the chairman of the committee to hold hearings aimed at people with disabilities, to begin with. It might be interesting, probably after the Easter holidays or even later, to have someone from the federal poverty officials present the report in that context.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic363x.u4	Madam President, normally in April 2016, the meeting will be at which they will report the report and their findings. At that time, your proposal can then be planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic363x.u5	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 7733 by Mrs Ben Hamou is converted into a written question, as is Amendment No 8594, No 8595, No 8596 and No 8597 by Mrs Fonck. Question No 92, by Mr Clarinval 9554 by Mrs Fonck. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Matz' 9268 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic363x.u6	Madam Secretary of State, the reports on the poverty problem in our country are alarming. This is old news, of course. I submitted my question a long time ago. The Planning Office has recently mapped out the prosperity of our country, and while it is progressing in other areas, the situation in terms of poverty is deteriorating. The Planning Bureau notes that the measures taken by the Flemish and federal governments account for 20% of the poorest in our country for an invoice of EUR 525 on an annual basis and that the social corrections promised in a number of cases are temporarily omitted. I asked you at the beginning of February a question about the timing of the child poverty plan, which has a great deal to do with this problem. You replied quite comprehensively at that time, for which I thank you, by the way. You said, among other things, that the Senate's information report of 24 February should be awaited in order to take further steps. An analysis could then be carried out and an initial draft of the action plan could then be drawn up. This should lead to a second and third draft, in consultation with the Belgian Platform Against Poverty and Social Exclusion. However, we were not sure about the real timing. I quote: 'We estimate that it will be possible to deal with it over the next six months.' In our view, that is rather vague. In this context, my colleague in the Flemish Parliament, Mr Van Malderen, raised some questions in the plenary session of 24 February. Flemish Minister Homans passed on to you and said that the absence of poverty measures is a problem for the federal government. Normally, after your answer from last time, I would have waited longer to ask you a follow-up question. However, now that the problem of the lack of federal measures has become a hot potato in the Flemish Parliament, I would nevertheless like to ask you a number of follow-up questions. Now that the Senate's information report is in place, it is finally possible, as you have said, to start drawing up an action plan on child poverty. What are your findings after reviewing the information report? When will or has the first draft action plan already started? What about the timing of a second and a third design as well as the consultation with the Belgian Platform against Poverty and Social Exclusion? In short, can you be more specific today about the timing of producing the child poverty plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic363x.u7	Madam President, Mrs Jiroflée, thank you for your question. As you know, the comprehensive text of the information report on the necessary cooperation between the federal government, the Communities and the Regions on the joint approach to the fight against child poverty was adopted at the Senate plenary session on 26 February 2016. The text of the information report was delivered to the members of the administrative working group by my administration, the Social Integration PPS, on 1 March 2016. This working group is composed of the competent administrations of the federal government and the Länder and was responsible for drawing up the draft National Child Poverty Reduction Plan. The members of the working group will have a few weeks to review the text thoroughly and make specific proposals themselves. These proposals will then be regrouped by the administration in a discussion paper, which will serve as a basis for drawing up a first concept of the actual child poverty plan. The preparation of the National Child Poverty Plan will continue according to the roadmap I gave you earlier in my reply. However, I can tell you a more detailed timing. A first step is the analysis of the Senate's information report and the discussion and identification of possible common actions, identified on the basis of the information report and other relevant sources, on 25 March 2016. Secondly, the preparation of a first draft action plan with an overview of joint actions and discussion of this draft with policy makers. On the basis of this discussion, the working group will draw up a second draft action plan. This will take place in April and May 2016. The organisation of a special meeting of the Belgian Platform against Poverty and Social Exclusion EU 2020 is planned for the end of May 2016 with a broad stakeholder consultation as its goal. The platform will also be asked to formulate recommendations on the format of the child poverty plan on the basis of the second draft. Subsequently, on the basis of the results of the bilateral discussions with policy makers, which will take place after stakeholder consultation, the working group prepares a third draft action plan. This action plan will then be presented after adoption by the Councils of Ministers. The entire process of analysing the Senate's information report to the final child poverty plan will take about six months. However, I do not want to fix myself at an exact end date, especially because it wants to ensure a strong national approach to child poverty issues, with concrete actions and, above all, commitments to their implementation by all parties concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic363x.u8	Madam Secretary of State, I am very pleased that the timing is now in place, although we continue to believe that this is going too slowly. Six months is at the earliest at the end of August. That's not until after the vacation. I think this is taking way too long. This is a hot item. There is a problem: people living in poverty in any case receive EUR 525 less on an annual basis, without any social correction. The Platform will certainly make a number of recommendations to you, and I hope that you will really take those recommendations to heart. If that is apparent from that plan, even if it is only there within six months, then I will not fail to congratulate you, but for the time being we remain very critical about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic363x.u9	Madam Secretary of State, your plans to send two agents to the United States for training in forensic hypnosis have been received by several legal psychologists, to put it mildly, by a lot of scepticism. According to you, it is intended to bring heavily traumatized victims of sexual crimes under hypnosis in order to trace memories that they had blocked. Some experts call that idea total nonsense and believe that you simply ignore 80 years of scientific research. According to court psychologists, the risk of pseudo-memory is particularly high. For an interrogation, that is very risky, because the risk of spins of the brain is far too high. There is also the conviction that this is rarely the case with new elements. In the Netherlands, by the way, the highest court has prohibited the use of witness statements under hypnosis years ago. Moreover, there have already been painful extensions in our country, including in the investigation of the Gang of Nivelles. Scientists stress that there is no case in the whole world that has been solved thanks to hypnosis. There are cases where hypnosis has been a small help. However, with the plethora of publications on pseudoremembers, a lawyer can easily win such cases in appeals. I have the following questions for you. Which training are the agents going to follow exactly? Which school or institution will receive the training? Is the training certified in any way? What do you think of the criticism of a number of Dutch experts from the universities of Maastricht and Amsterdam, not least? What do you think of the ban on hypnosis witness statements in the Netherlands? Is EUR 8 000 the full cost of training or are there additional costs of transport, accommodation and so on? Is EUR 8 000 the cost per person or for the two persons? What exactly is included in that amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic363x.u10	Mrs Jiroflée, I am glad that you are asking this question. So I can give some clues about this polemic. First of all, the two police officers will undergo specialized training in forensic hypnosis. I'll say forensic hypnosis. Since such training does not exist in Belgium, we must indeed move to the United States where such training does exist. They will be trained in Austin at the Texas State Police Department. It is true that, mainly from the Dutch side, this is criticised. I'd like to give you some explanation. First of all, I think it is particularly important to look at the Netherlands to hear points of criticism, because in the end it is the Dutch legal psychologists, the same people, who also criticize the use of the polygraph test, the polygraph detector. However, the Belgian police and the court use it very often. Moreover, only one of the different opinions from the Netherlands is reflected. In his university, Professor Merckelbach has a colleague, particularly Professor Lindsay Raymaekers, who is opposed. By the way, Professor Merckelbach is a psychologist who in fact has no connection with police interrogation. In addition, he has also admitted in the press that hypnosis as a form of therapy can in some cases help. He added that it was difficult for him to deal with this subject because too little research has been done on the phenomenon. It seems to me, therefore, to be very contradictory when he claims that the federal police are ignoring 80 years of investigation. As far as pseudoremembers are concerned, there is a risk, but that also exists in ordinary interviews. In 17 % of cases there are pseudo-recollections of ordinary interrogations. It is therefore important that both an ordinary interview and a hypnosis interview are conducted by specialists, persons who have received training in interrogation techniques. With hypnosis, I want to do the same now, the current police listeners, who are now practicing hypnosis, have both training in therapeutic hypnosis and interrogation techniques, but not in forensic hypnosis, because that training does not yet exist. By allowing them to follow this specific training, the interviewers who are present will be able to concentrate even more on that particular interrogation technique and thus work less suggestively during the hypnosis interview, which will ultimately only benefit the witness statements. Moreover, it is not the case that a testimony under hypnosis will have evidence value. The criticism of pseudoremembers and the fact that lawyers would easily win in appeals is therefore completely unjustified. After all, the elements that come out of hypnosis are always being investigated by the detectives. It is therefore an additional value in the investigation and it will be tested against other witnesses' statements. It may therefore add value to the full research, but it will not be considered as having the truth. The demand for training and for more hypnosis interviews came from the federal police themselves. The federal police have already noticed that new elements are emerging. They have a number of pending court cases, but of course they cannot communicate on them, just because they are dealing with pending cases, in which a number of new elements have been introduced by hypnosis. The fact that a case has never been solved in the whole world thanks to hypnosis is not right. Last summer, for example, a notary was sentenced to ten years in prison for rape and torture after the victim had identified the man as the perpetrator when she was under hypnosis. Those elements allowed the police to find additional evidence against the perpetrator. The fact that, in the case of the Gang of Nivelles itself, the legal expert has abused women under hypnosis is entirely in addition to the issue. That had nothing to do with the hypnosis hearing itself, but with the abuse of power by that person at the time. He abused his position as a therapist in a therapeutic setting, not during a police interrogation. As regards training costs, these include the full cost of training, including accommodation and transport of the two police officers. Since these two federal agents can then take the hypnosis hearing for free instead of having it carried out by legal experts, who can pay separately, this EUR 8 000 seems to me to be a good investment in view of the financial possibilities offered by the Justice Department. I would also like to stress that I hear from the federal police that a number of cases have been taken forward in which the perpetrator of serious sex crimes would otherwise never have been found. I can only support the question that comes from the police themselves. The police get a lot of positive reactions, including from the victims who were eligible for a hypnosis hearing. In short, I believe that if I can put one dangerous rapist away and help one victim, this EUR 8 000 is a good investment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic363x.u11	Thank you for your answers, Madam Secretary of State. Let it be clear, if that EUR 8 000 includes everything, I have no problem with that. Thank you for your explanation, too. I wanted to hear from you in what context all this has come about. Let it also be clear that I have absolutely nothing against hypnosis in therapy settings. I'm an education teacher and I've studied a lot of psychology. I'm, like you, convinced of its benefits. What I continue to fear is that, because of the scepticism in judicial circles, the hypnosis hearing will often miss its purpose, and that it will rather be used to turn things around. However, we will have to wait and see. At least I appreciate you sticking your neck out for this system, even though I remain a little critical. In any case, we will follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic363x.u12	This is also in the vice book. The study days are a huge success. The police are really asking party to do more about that. It is intended to evaluate this after a year. What happened? What did they do with it? It's definitely not a non-committal investment. This is happening in response to their question and I think I should take that up as well. They have clear arguments as to why they want to do so. In the future, everything can be called into question again if it turns out that it is not what it should be. With the enthusiasm and explanation of the police themselves, I felt that I should give this a chance, given the possibilities of helping the victims in very specific cases and of identifying the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic363x.u13	What's the timing? When did these people graduate? When do we start doing this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic363x.u14	That'll be pretty soon. I think they'll be going to Texas in the next few weeks, where they'll be taking that training and it'll start after the summer. About the same period next year we may be able to make an initial assessment, depending on current cases. It's hard to give a timing. As long as there's an investigation going on, it's hard for me to answer. I asked for the first application to be properly recorded and acted in such a way that a preliminary evaluation could be carried out in the course of next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic363x.u15	Then I shall ask another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic363x.u16	I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic363x.u17	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I concede that perhaps the title of the question could have been better chosen. I would like to take stock with you of the information report recently approved unanimously in the Senate, which shows that lowering the age of compulsory education would be a key element in the fight against child poverty in our country, as well as a promoter of better integration according to the region in which we are located. Going to school earlier would make it possible to tackle more effectively the problem of poor mother tongue skills as well as the lack of social skills encountered by many children growing up in disadvantaged environments. I know that this is a competence dealt with in the Committee on the Economy, but I am in favour of combating poverty and promoting equal opportunities. I have tabled a bill to reduce compulsory education to five years. Other proposals which are circulating go even further and wish to introduce them from three years on. If the possibility of forcing children to attend school at the age of five were to exist, it would be important already, as this measure could be a key success factor for the further education of the child. On the contrary, a late arrival at school can be a source of difficulty in adapting and, therefore, learning on its subsequent journey. Madam Secretary of State, have you ever been aware of this report that lowering the age of compulsory education would be a key issue in the fight against poverty? It was my understanding that the Senate would organize a day of study on the issue of child poverty. He should have done it already, if my information is good, in February. During this day this theme would also have been discussed. Do you also draw important conclusions for your general policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic363x.u18	Jadin, we have received the report of the Senate. Since then, we know that exposure to poverty during childhood can have a serious negative impact on the future. Investing in young children is crucial if we are to break the vicious cycle of poverty. In light of this, I welcome the Senate's recommendation to lower the age of compulsory education. However, investment in the pre-school period must not weaken. The first years of life are the crucial phase par excellence for the education and development of the child. I have learned that the day of study of the Senate to which you refer, which was normally scheduled for the end of February, did not take place. An administrative working group is in the process of drafting a national plan of action to combat child poverty. As part of the preparation of this plan, the Belgian Platform against Poverty and Social Exclusion EU2020 has asked to be able to organise a colloquium in the Senate. This will be a broad stakeholder consultation to inform the development of the second national poverty reduction plan. The request for the organisation of this exchange has been forwarded to the Commission for Transversal Matters – Community responsibilities. This will help to ascertain the extent to which this symposium could be linked to other initiatives proposed for the information report on child poverty. The Senate information report will serve as a guide for the working group, which will analyze the recommendations based on the drafting of the action plan. It will also need to feed into stakeholder consultation. The plan will be completed in six months, as there is still a need to consult the stakeholders and relevant organisations, including the Belgian Platform.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic363x.u19	Madam Secretary of State, I will ask my group to table this bill as a matter of priority in the Committee on the Economy. It was in 2007 that I introduced this text for the first time. We are in 2016 and we continue to ask ourselves the same questions. I know that inter-federal consultation is necessary. At the time, we went a little further. The establishment of compulsory education remains a federal responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic363x.u20	The Regions are responsible for education. This is not a matter of compulsory education, but of compulsory education. That is where the problem lies. It is not because children will have to be enrolled from the age of three that they will go to school. Belgium recognizes and applies the second obligation, but not the first. School duty and compulsory schooling, that's not the same thing. I understand your question. In my view, from the age of three, it is preferable and even desirable for a child to go to school, be able to speak the language of the Community to which he belongs and learn to live together. In Belgium, the obligation of education applies. This does not mean that the child has to go to school. A parent may decide to educate his or her child at home.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic363x.u21	I think I understood the difference between compulsory education and compulsory education. The latter is set at six years. That's the law. I would like this obligation to be reduced to five years. That would be a good start. I remember that there had already been two legislatures, I believe, and that there had been consultation with the Communities. That was not a lot of trouble. Specifically in my Region, 95 per cent of children are already in school from the age of five. But there are places, as in the capital, where there is a flagrant failure to follow up on the obligation of education for children under the age of six. It is a factor on which we, as legislators, can really work; it should allow, by the force of coercion, to bring his child to an education. It is obvious that all regions should want to do so in the same way. I believe that at the time it was the Flemish Region that had not wanted to follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic363x.u22	That's right. But your bill is about an application from five years on.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic363x.u23	Indeed, but I am willing to discuss the possibility of planning it from three years on.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic363x.u24	For five years, there may be unanimity. Things have changed in recent years. If we say "from the age of three", this will be the subject of great discussion, but if we say "from the age of five", we will be more easily unanimous.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic363x.u25	Of course, things are changing, but in some regions of our country it is sometimes a little more difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic363x.u26	Debates of the European Parliament 9737 by Mr Van Biesen is without object.
