ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u2	By letter dated 11 October 2016, the Senate informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of October 11, 2016, the Senate announced that it had constituted itself at its sitting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u3	Mr President, I would like to speak briefly on the order of business. I had tabled an actual question concerning the astronomically high amount that our Crown Princess will soon receive from our community. You rejected my current question. You will remember, Mr President, that in the Netherlands at the beginning of this week there was a similar incident about the donation to Princess Amalia. The Flemish press has taken over this and has also calculated the cost to our Crown Princess. That is a considerable amount of money, and there is a great deal of debate about it at the moment. The press is working on this and none less than our good colleague from the Flemish Parliament, Herman De Croo, found it useful and necessary to interfere in this debate. I believe that there was sufficient up-to-date data to keep this up-to-date. Mr President, you have informed my group leader that this issue is not sufficiently topical and you have added that it may be dealt with in the context of the budgetary negotiations. I would, but in French there is an expression for:noyer le poisson. Bring this subject to a bigger picture and it will pass. Your demarche, Mr President, surprises me and disappoints me. She amazes me, because I've met you, and in the meantime have also learned to appreciate you, as a very generous chairman. You are someone who rejects very few parliamentary initiatives. The number of topical questions you have rejected is, I think, still to be counted on one hand. It disappoints me, because it is you of all people, a prominent member of a Republican party, who finds it necessary to evict the royal court. I take note of that, I have no choice, but I do so in the joy of knowing that your electorate will certainly not interpret you for the better.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u4	Thank you, Mr Penris, but I stand by that decision. So I'm gonna have to disappoint you. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 October 2016, I propose that the agenda start with the interviews. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 October 2016, I propose that you start the agenda with the inquiries. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, welcome. It's a good thing you're here today. It's a good thing you're making the effort to get here today. After the turbulent days, Parliament and the people are entitled to a word of explanation. Actually, Prime Minister, you should have been here on Tuesday with your State of the Union. You have asked for a postponement, and even that delay is in ruins. Because how much time do you need, Prime Minister? Are you asking for a day's delay? Are you asking for a week's delay? Are you asking for an unlimited delay? No one knows. On top of the chaos that's already there today, you're creating extra chaos. You show little leadership in that regard. Prime Minister, as the boss of our country, you undoubtedly know the slogan of our country. She's standing above me here: "L'L'union Fait la Force," "Uniquity Makes Power". Prime Minister, how much power do you have today? How much unity does your government have today? How much trust is left in your government? You're standing here empty-handed today. No State of the Union, no budget agreement, no major reforms, because your government is divided. Your government is deeply divided. Your ministers are walking away from the negotiating table. Your ministers would rather launch proposals in the press than in the government. Even the staff are fighting in the corridors of this Parliament. Prime Minister, is it not a pity that you have not been able to get your four government parties, with whom you have been ruling for two years, at one and the same table today? It's come a long way! It also seems to me that, frankly, you can't really be surprised. This crisis was predicted somewhere. Your government's been fighting for two years. For two years, your government has been sucking from one incident to another. The name "Kibbelkabinet" does not stick to your government for nothing. This division always leads to results where people lose, Prime Minister. You're turning it into a story of winners and losers, when it should be a story of all of us, a story of which everyone gets better. You are simply proving, Prime Minister, that you are unable to rule. What's on the table now? CD&V wants an added value tax. The N-VA wants a reduction in corporate tax. And Open Vld wants to activate the savings. All three parties stand firm. All three of them stick to their own positions. Nothing's moving for a while. Do you know what that means? This means that either there will be no reforms, or there will be half-hearted reforms that will not boost our economy, while you should use this budget to finally balance your policies. So far, you have always asked the same people for a contribution. Nevertheless, I read in the newspapers about savings in social security, health care and pensions, while people are longing for a fair policy. I don't understand why you don't listen to them. I have three questions for you, Prime Minister. First of all, do something about that division within your government. It doesn't make you any better, it doesn't make the opposition any better, let alone the people outside this Parliament. Take the division within your government. Secondly, make the budget that you have to submit not only to Europe on Saturday, but also to this Parliament, a balanced budget. Remember that you have already asked a lot of people: an index jump, an increase in retirement age and the 4 billion VAT you have already paid by the middle class. Make sure the budget is in balance this time. If you take action, at least make sure that the measures you take are funded. I hear Minister Van Overtveldt say that corporation tax has been regulated, that funding has been found for this and I hear Mr Beke say that corporation tax has not been financed by a long time. In that respect, I know who to believe, because don't forget, dear friends, the tax shift is still not funded today. Thirdly, let it be the last time it's going to be so chaotic. We expect a Prime Minister to come and give a statement on how he intends to address the challenges facing our country, how we will all, including the people outside this House, be better off. A prime minister is also expected to provide peace and stability. Right now, all I see is chaos. Honestly, I expected a lot more.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is better to be late than ever. You're here today in the House, all together. You didn't come on Tuesday, you didn't make a statement, you didn't give a single explanation about your lack of agreement. On the other hand, you sent your Budget Minister the government statement on the radio. But, at last, you're here today! Prime Minister, you are responsible for the government crisis you are experiencing today. You directly, because what is happening is not serious, it is not good management, it is not good governance. How do you explain that you did it at the last minute, even though this budget hole has been slipping for months and months? How do you explain that in July you took the situation lightly, with a big media show, but, at the same time, without in any way actually being able to carry out a substantive work on the budget? How can we explain good management, when a hole, initially estimated at 2.4 billion, turned into 4.2 billion? How can we explain good management, when we see that it is the measures that are decided by your government that are directly responsible for the budget hole that is yours today? However, you have asked for brutal efforts, brutal measures, imposed on citizens, index jumps, on health, whether it is at the level of taxes, to gogo, whether it is VAT on electricity, and I pass by... Of course, you're still going to make us "hollandism," telling us everything's fine, as you do every week. Caterpillar, ING, I can quote many others... It's good to look at his navel but when we look at the situation on a European scale, the least we can say is that the situation is anything but flattering. For example, do you still have to remember that in terms of job variation, you are among the worst? Is it worth recalling that at the level of public debt, you are among the countries and especially the worst neighbouring countries? Is it necessary to remember, because a government is not there to create inflation, but to create employment, that you are also in the record for inflation with an inflation rate increased by 2%? In terms of jobs, you always come back with your 70,000, but over 12 quarters! Calculate well, it was already under the previous government and thanks to the measures taken then. The advantage of the current crisis is that when there is no agreement on everything, there is no agreement on anything. I am sure that if I ask you a lot of questions today, you will answer, Prime Minister, that you have nothing to say because the agreement is not over. Instead, I'm going to propose a plan B with the five key axes for the CDH. First, you need to go back to your pre-decision on health. Imposing a billion more savings in health is indecent after the two billion already achieved. Mrs De Block, you said, just a few weeks ago, that there was no question of making a euro of additional savings as this would directly penalise the patient. A few weeks later, there is no problem! Touch hospitals and, as you know, there will be fewer nurses, fewer contributions to patients, geriatric patients will have to come out faster; to go where when we lack places? Touching drugs means directly putting patients in trouble. The second axis concerns tax reform with two major objectives: reducing labour costs to support employment by rebalancing things between multinationals and SMEs and mobilising savings and investment towards the real economy. Thirdly, with regard to labour reform, Mr Minister for Employment, I would urge you to find the direction of a new social pact on flexibility, with the social partners, provided that this flexibility is not imposed unilaterally and that it is accompanied by the reconciliation of family, personal and private life. The fourth focus is an investment plan on mobility, energy, digital and innovation, as well as health. The fifth is the fight against terrorism, because today our police, justice and intelligence forces are on their knees. It's time to support them. Security has a price, it's true, but it's existential. Prime Minister, today your government is in crisis. We are witnessing a shock from the party egos. Everyone goes with their little idea by sweeping away the ideas of others, including the Minister of Finance on Twitter. When will you finally wear your Prime Minister costume and lead your government team? When are you finally going to lead this country with the general interest as its objective rather than the small party interests? Citizens and employment are in dire need of a government break. It's your responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u7	Prime Minister, we read in the newspaper that your government does not like our meeting: a mandatory number, no good for anything, lost time. I do not understand that, ladies and gentlemen, because I think that the Prime Minister should actually thank the opposition. The opposition managed to get Mr De Croo, Mr Peeters and Mr Michel back into one room. We brought them together. Mr Prime Minister, you have failed in the last 24 hours. The session has already made sure that you share a room together again. Frankly, Prime Minister, I do not understand why you have no desire to come here. At this very moment the Prime Minister must look the representative of the people in the eye, especially at this time the Prime Minister must look our fellow countrymen in the eye, because it is a politically and socially important moment. Of course, the debate is about your position, Prime Minister. Of course, the debate is about the majority and the division in it. But the debate is mainly about us, about our country, about our citizens and businesses. What country do we want to wake up in? What will we do in 2017 to give our citizens and businesses prospects? I'd like to ask you three questions. First of all, show leadership. Dare to show leadership. Secondly, dare to revisit things that are on the table today. Thirdly, dare to reform thoroughly. First of all, dare be a true leader. Dare to be the captain our country craves. Keep your troops in line. Yesterday, Johan Van Overtveldt announced through social media that Kris Peeters and Wouter Beke don't know their files. That's not serious. That is not serious, Prime Minister. Scouts and Chiro meet in a more serious way that your government. Please stop that! That's not serious! What I am wondering is whether Johan Van Overtveldt would do the same under a prime minister like Jean-Luc Dehaene? Would he dare do that under Guy Verhofstadt? I doubt that. Apparently, your government members think that's normal, that's possible. That's why I have this call to you. First, show leadership, be that Prime Minister and do with your government what normal people do, on the workplace, in the sports club, in the cafeteria, namely working together, chatting with each other and moving forward. That is my first appeal to you, Prime Minister. Secondly, there seems to be a number of things on the table. Mr Reynders said last Monday that the agreement was at 99.9%. Today we are on Thursday and nothing has yet been tabled. However, measures are leaking out and I am very concerned about this. Mr. Peeters, your fight over the next few hours and days shouldn't be just about what's to come. As far as we are concerned, you will also have to fight hard to wipe a number of things off the table. I'm declaring myself. I read in the newspapers, and I do not understand this: once again, the majority will save on citizens who are struggling, that it will cut back on the prosperity of our benefits, that it will save on citizens living in poverty, on pensioners. Mr Peeters, that's off the table! Then there's health care. Mr Van Gorp of the CM is concerned. If we cut this deep into health care, our patients will be affected, says Mr Van Gorp. Mr Peeters, let's get this off the table. Otherwise, Mr De Roover, it will be the N-VA who will win again; otherwise it will be another budget, Mr De Roover, in which more will be achieved in terms of social security, in terms of the people who are struggling, than in terms of the greatest assets, in terms of multinationals and in terms of people who can really make a contribution. Finally, my third appeal is for real reform. Three trophies, a trophy for each party, is not yet a coherent fiscal vision. A trophy for each party is not yet a social project. I'll look at what's on the table. The company tax would be reformed. We must take this step: we must have a fair corporate tax for our SMEs. It is also about the capital contribution. Mr Peeters, by the way, thank you for sharing the text, but there are so many exceptions, so many likes and buts to the proposal that it will once again be a question of millions and that it may not even work. We need a real contribution of the greatest abilities, not symbols, not trophies, but a real contribution. One last example is the tank card. Apparently there's another barn, another tax, something that makes our tax system more complex. There's gonna be a tax on fuel cards now. Mr Michel, why is the system of commercial vehicles not simply being reformed? Why do they continue to be subsidised for 4 billion and will there be an additional tax? No, it is time for real reform. We are not so interested in the timing of the agreement. In any case, I don't think this is a beautiful spectacle. What your majority is doing is not advertising politics, but the content of the exercise is much more important to us. Prime Minister, I would like to make an appeal to you. Dare to be a prime minister. It's a fantastic job to run 11 million countrymen. Then do it. Dare to revisit a number of cases. Dare to reform above all. Be a premier of reform rather than a prime minister who looks a lot like his predecessors. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u8	Prime Minister, let me first welcome you. We're happy to meet you here. It's not that I missed you personally, but I think you missed democracy and the constitutional meeting you know well. On the second Tuesday of October, your place is here in Parliament. But Tuesday was the crisis. This Thursday, it continues. It is also, I hope, the time for explanations. Your responsibility is as team leader, prime minister and facilitator. If you had been a business manager, and you know it very well, you would have already had your shareholders on your back. In view of your responsibilities, it is the Belgians who occupy this role. They expect clarification and explanation from you. You've been in office for two years. So it was time for an initial assessment. You will remember telling the Belgians, during the election campaign, that you would form a government without the N-VA. Now we have one with the N-VA. You also stated, at that time, that the government would not decide on an index jump. But this government has implemented it. During the campaign, you also promised not to extend careers. But your government has chosen to extend them to 67 years. So here's the record of two years of Michel's government. What you will probably describe as a mere melodrama between your ministers, many citizens live it as a true horror film. The country is going through a difficult time, as we know. First of all economically with the closure of companies such as Caterpillar, massive restructuring at ING, redundancies, etc. Moreover, the attacks are also still present in our memories. But, alongside these external factors, what they feel the most is the political choice of blind and linear austerity that you have been driving since the beginning: 4.5 billion euros of savings on the backs of workers, pensioners, the most fragile - young people, women, single women, the sick too. And we still don't know what your budget is. We've heard a few snippets, some initial information. Mrs De Block, since you are here, you will certainly remember your statements. I have here the newspaper L'Echo of the month of March 2016. Do you remember? "If we push savings further into social security, it will be on the patient's back." That's the title. That's what you said. If we push savings further, Prime Minister, your Minister of Health says it will be on the patient's back. Feeling probably the wind coming, you spread the message more harshly, even more strongly in September in the newspaper Le Soir: "Additional savings in health care is no!" Do you remember that, Mrs. De Block? It's dated September 13th. Two days later, and it was then that I began to understand that there would be a problem, Mr.Ducarme said: "I appreciated the response of Minister De Block: no further savings in health care. I'm with her." Now I think it's starting to get difficult. Indeed, today we learn that we are 900 million euros in savings in social security. The Minister of Finance is not present here today. But the mechanics are known: time 1, he imagines unrealistic recipes; time 2, he finds that the hole is huge; time 3, it is, as always, the Belgian citizen who is called to fill the holes. Your Finance Minister, Mr. Michel, inherited Margareth Thatcher's software and Jacqueline Galant's calculator. For the past two years, tax revenues have been inflated; the Regions have to drink; they refuse to go for 700 million of the excess profit rules. That's your government's record. Mr. Chair, I understand the CD&V. At one point, it's too much!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u9	Mr Nollet, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u10	That is why they have tabled proposals. But I know the CD&V. We go up to the barricades on the eve of important appointments, and we land very quickly because we have to consider the other wing of the CD&V. Isn't that right, Mr Bogaert? At some point, they say stop, stop laughing and then land. In doing so, perhaps you will be able to get 15, 20, or even 30 million, Mr. Peeters. I heard and read that your tax would raise hundreds of millions. If that is the case, we will be in favour of it and we will be behind you. But I know you, if you get 15, 20 or 30 million, you'll be happy, minister, and you'll move on. Prime Minister, this is a scenario we do not want. We want the crisis to be an opportunity for a change of course. And if that is the case, the Ecolo-Groen Group will give you the time to translate it into legislation. But change course and give up austerity as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, my colleagues have said the most important thing about your absence from the House last Tuesday. Still, it would have been better if you'd been there. The empty benches of the government were felt, at best, as contempt of parliament, at worst, as cowardice to assume the failure of your negotiations. By being present here on requisition, your image certainly does not emerge from it. The Minister of Budget spoke to the media on Tuesday morning. In front of the parliament, could you explain yourself? First, on the budget, at one point, there were 2.4 billion, then 4.2 billion, and then 2.8 billion. What the hell is this? Is this the famous goed bestuur? Or is it an essential amendment to your government agreement? Is it the abandonment of the budgetary balance for 2018? Or do you refer to 2018 an effort that would therefore be 1.2% of GDP, that is about 5 billion euros, not to mention the non-financing of the tax shift? Pierre Moscovici pointed out three frailties to your government: the nominal deficit (and obviously you are not well seen); the debt (your black spot) and the difficulty of improving your structural balance. These frailties are serious, because they severely damage the country's situation. And when the situation in the country deteriorates, it is the citizens who pay for the broken pots. Secondly, on internal choices for budgets. There is already the indecency to make patients pay for the crisis: 900 million euros of savings in health care, it is simply a shame. But it seems that it is even more serious, that we need to add big measures on disability, on pensions. Anyway, that's the security you put on the diet. Is that true? Is most of the effort carried by the security, that is, by this exceptional model, which is both a shield against the crisis and a major tool for the social protection of the population? Is it also true that a new effort will be required on public services? For example, will Justice still have to pay for the crisis? Finally, thirdly, on structural reforms. It's obviously the trampling fair. This day has again been the occasion of virulent attacks between parties of your majority. Is it true that there would be at least five reforms in relation to the information leaking? The first would concern the 1996 Act. In other words, we hit the workers again. After having punctured them by means of the index jump, they are prevented from seeing their earnings evolve. Is it true that the concept of quality employment is further degraded after flexi-jobs and mini-jobs? This would then be the 45-hour law. This means that you're going to encourage extravagant flexibility. Then there is the question of reforming ISOC. We don't know much about it. This may be a good initiative, but you will remember that the Supreme Council of Finance had indicated that such a measure would be costly. This, of course, should not be limited to a new deficit, as with the tax shift, in the form of gifts to certain companies that do not deserve it, paid on the back of the population. We are also talking about mobilising savings for investments. Mr. Dewael mentioned it this Tuesday. Again, why not? Two major pitfalls have been identified for years. This is first of all the budgetary cost and then the European context, which is such that the effects of a boon on non-Belgian companies can hardly be avoided. Finally, I come to the taxation of capital gains, which follows the meaning of history. Such a provision exists everywhere and allows for tax justice between income from capital and income from labour. This question allows me to speak through you, Prime Minister, to the CD&V. The latter seems to me to be the great turkey of the farce. The boss of the Christian Mutualities has just clarified what he thinks of the attacks on health care for budgetary reasons. According to him, it's a shame! Pensions are also being targeted, and workers are also being targeted through the revision of the 1996 Act and the 45-hour period. They are reduced to beg one of the three tax reforms and benevolent by their partners. If they don't get their reform, they'll get out of it humiliated. Even more serious, this is a question of credibility. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have just heard that Bob Dylan has been awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature. In one of his songs, he said, "How many ears must a man have before he can hear the people screaming?" Prime Minister, how many ears will your government have to have in order for your policy to change course? Reforms are good, but if it's to reduce the well-being of the population, surely it's no!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u12	Prime Minister, how are you? Do you still like your job? Do you still like it? You're smiling and you seem to still like it. To be honest, I fear that a lot of citizens in this country are not going to see it that way anymore. They have already had to swallow a spectacular increase in electricity bills and all kinds of tax increases by your government. They now see that there is no end to it and that they will have to pay again for the situation. You should imagine how these people feel when they can read in almost all the Flemish newspapers today that the crown princess will receive 2 500 euros a day when she is of age. My colleague Jan Penris wanted to ask a question about it in Question Time, but you did not want to answer it. That communication came from the cabinet and the President of the Chamber followed the cabinet nicely by refusing to do so as a separate oral question. Out of respect for this Parliament, he would have refused your sudden request on Tuesday to postpone that policy statement. On the day of the State of the Union itself suddenly announce that you are not coming, that has never been seen. What's happening now is very painful. It was a very sad spectacle this week. We have seen all kinds of things, blames, all kinds of ideas that we have heard through the media. Open Vld wants to convert the 260 billion on the savings books into venture capital. Since when is venture capital the same as savings? Apparently, the Crem isn't the only member of the government who can use an economics course. Actually, it's totally hallucinating. We live in a country with almost the highest tax burden in the world and CD&V provokes a government crisis about introducing an additional new tax. That's the situation. Of course, there must be more equitable taxation, but there must also be fewer taxes. Do you really think that someone believes that in a few nights, under budgetary pressure, you are going to come to a real fiscal reform? For real fiscal reform to happen, all taboos must be discussed, not just the taboos that score well among the supporters of one of the government parties. Minister Peeters, perhaps in the context of a constructive atmosphere, you made the proposal of the added value tax public an hour ago. I would also like to hear the other proposals today, in particular the proposals on the concrete savings measures on the government's table. Has there been any mention, for example, of the billions of euros going to asylum and migration in this country, or is that taboo? Has the billions of euros going to the European Union already been mentioned, or is that also taboo? After all, today, the newspaper reported that the European Court of Auditors rejected the European Union's budget for the 22nd year in a row. Over EUR 5 billion of illegal costs have already been incurred. The current government pays more than EUR 3 billion each year for operating costs for the European Union. I therefore wonder whether such an amount is not mentioned when expenditure is to be cut. I would have liked to have heard that from you today. Mr President, I will conclude. Prime Minister, you deny that there is a government crisis. I wonder what's going on here. After all, it is difficult for you to ignore this as a mini-crisis, or is the atmosphere always so? It's the reverse world. The atmosphere of the negotiations is, in its own words, constructive. In the press, however, the government parties roll over the street fighting. They call each other liars. They don't return to the conference table, which is called running away these days. We have all experienced it, mostly even to a lesser extent, in the previous government, with which the N-VA would have liked to make a difference. Prime Minister, when will there be a State of the Union? Is there going to be a policy statement at all? I don't need it. However, a proper explanation of why you were not here on Tuesday would be a minimum of respect for Parliament. I'm very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u13	Mr. President, Prime Minister, your majority is in difficulty because the policy you have been pursuing for the past two years is a failure. Your majority is divided because it sees this failure and seeks, in an approximate, improvised and uncoordinated manner, a change of position. Mr. Dewael showed an amazing frankness last Tuesday. I greeted him for his courage. I'm going back to what he said. Here's what he's saying about the current policy of your majority and its results. He had this hard sentence that I quote: "From a fiscal point of view, we should all blush to continue to encourage people more not to work rather than to work." This is the result of your policy, because tax reform has not been there to meet the expectations of the workers. Your tax reform is an illusion. Moreover, the thermometer Solidaris – RTL Info – Le Soir confirmed this morning Mr Dewael's failure. What does this thermometer tell us? That working does not necessarily protect from poverty: 40% of employees in this country consider that they find it difficult to complete their end of the month. Four out of ten workers face this risk of poverty. It is known that great hazards of existence are not necessary to shift, perhaps permanently, into poverty. Your tax reform did not live up to the electoral promises you made at the time. I can take over your entire electoral program. Your reform is far from your promises. Other indicators show that your results are not up to your ad effects. It was under your government that, for the first time, GDP growth fell below the European average. It is also under your government that employment increases twice as fast as in other euro area countries. If you say "job creation", you do not have the growth of jobs that we see in other countries! If we take, for example, the BNB indicator of consumer confidence, i.e. those who are ready to support growth through their purchasing power, we can still see in September that this indicator is falling back because confidence is not on the table! In short, this is the problem of your majority, and today it finds that the confidence of the citizens is not at the rendezvous of your effects so much and so repeated. You have a problem with unfulfilled promises or promises that were in your electoral programs and that have not been realized. It was recalled here, Mrs De Block said that health care and social security would no longer be affected. We can see what's going on! By the way, you still have a famous problem of authority in your government, when your Budget Minister allows himself to reveal on the antennas of a radio station the draft agreement that you do not even have the courage to come to Parliament on the same day! Who is the head of the government? Who still assumes responsibility for the communication of this government? Who still has the authority to say what is the reality of your internal debates? We're trying to understand! We saw it with the tweet of your Deputy Prime Minister today, there is a war of trenches within your majority and everyone is going from its influence through the media. You are in the process of negotiating through the media. And you claimed to have a government where there was more rigour, more methodology and more mutual respect than under the previous government! You're a long way from it! Today, it is the cacophony that triumphs within your majority! So, Prime Minister, we'd like to understand where your course is. The failure of your economic policy is obvious because you have only relied on one aspect! You only rely on the competitiveness of companies and you have massacred purchasing power through a set of measures, which you will amplify with new government decisions! Perhaps it is time to draw inspiration from other examples in Europe than those of the Thatcherian and Reagan era, which is over for all those who are aware of what the real economic stakes in Europe must be!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u14	Mr. President, Prime Minister, (...) (Mr. Van Hees pretends to speak to someone else). I'm sorry, I was wrong. Prime Minister, I have the impression that your government has been a little confused lately. Prime Minister, I've looked elsewhere, but it's true that this is where you are. Maybe you can reassure me. A little confused because you're having trouble finding the way. Mr. De Crem does not find the way to Belgium. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u15	You see, he's gone. You offended him. Mr President, allow me time to speak. Mr. Reynders can't find the way to Japan. Mr. Peeters can't find the way to the conclave. You yourself, Prime Minister, can't find the way to parliament. And this government, in general, does not find the way to the money of the richest, who make up 1% of the population and who own 420 billion euros. I like to repeat it from time to time. It feels like this government is "cracked." I'd say "Kris Peeters," if I dared. You feel dissension. And we are reassured to hear from the Speaker of the Senate, from your party, Prime Minister, that "the MR is the Maizena of this government". I feel like she's kind of confusing Maizena with popcorn! Have you ever tried making a béchamel sauce with popcorn? That's kind of what's happening at the government level today. The significance of this political crisis, Prime Minister, is not trivial. It's not just a little party-to-party war. It is deeper and there is, behind it, an important social mobilization that shakes this government. Hence a divergence between a decomplexed right, which we know, up to the botist and a party still a little bit related to the social movement, which is looking for a trophy – which, for the moment, looks more like a Kinder Surprise than anything else – but which, in any case, leads the fight on the order of symbolicism. The contents of the leaks from this government budget agreement are quite worrying in relation to the threats to social security, public services, the incomes of the world of work, and with these new "gifts". Prime Minister, a favourable wind brought me your newsletter. He's not terrible. I'm not going to give all the ratings, but finally... Compared to the euro area, economic growth marks a significant gap. With regard to the structural balance, I still remember the budget plan announced in 2014... Where are we now? This is not good to see... The employment rate, the unemployment rate, compared to the euro area is very late, it is a problem. The share of wages in GDP continues to decline year by year. Wages are falling relative to the wealth created. There is only one figure that is good, Prime Minister, it is the share of profits in GDP. It's growing, it's always that. Prime Minister, we need to review your model. If I were to comment on the bulletin to Mr. Louis Michel, for example, I would say, "Mr. Louis Michel, your son, it's not that he doesn't work, but I think it's his method that's not good." Maybe you should stop drawing inspiration from M's dogmas. Van Overtveldt. He has a Milton Friedman poster in his room. He's an admirer of the theory of trickle down, of "russing." We give a lot of gifts to the richest and it runs over the entire population. The first phase works well, no problem. Watering the rich works. But the second phase, the impact on the economy as a whole, works much less well... For example, every year, a top 50 of the largest tax rebates is realized. How many multinationals pay taxes: KBC: 0.3%, Solvay: 0%, Atlas Services 0%, UNILIN: 0.5%, AB InBev: 0%, Janssen Pharmaceutica 2.4%, that's not bad, Ontex: 0%. And all this in the name of employment! How many more jobs have these companies created? None. Not only did they not create jobs, they also reduced employment by 1% compared to the previous year. On the other hand, they distributed 71% of their profits to their shareholders in dividends. This is the reality of your policy, which does not work. Not only is it socially catastrophic, but it also does not work economically.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u16	Please close.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u17	I conclude with my questions. Prime Minister, how do you justify your absence from the House this Tuesday, October 11th? What is the breakdown of measures taken to address the $4 billion hole? How do you justify giving new unnecessary gifts to capital despite the importance of budget slipping? What is your position on the taxation of capital gains? Your party, it seems to me, is the only one that has not taken a position on the matter. Does it make sense to tax capital gains only on the tax of natural persons, while the largest shareholders hold their shares in companies? Finally, you usually have a Rolex on your wrist. I don't know if that's the case today. Do you know how many times this represents the monthly income of a minimalxé?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u18	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u19	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u20	No, Mr Calvo, the Prime Minister has the floor. Mr De Roover has withdrawn his question. That's an individual right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u21	We have received an agenda containing a question from Mr Peter De Roover. You didn't change that calendar. I therefore expected Mr De Roover to intervene. All the majority parties remain silent here in Parliament, but in the meantime Mrs De Block is saying about your proposal, Mr Peeters...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u22	Thank you very much, Mr Calvo. It is the right of each member to withdraw his or her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unlike the opposition, we will not be speaking here three weeks ago. Since there were no new facts after Tuesday, I withdrew my question. I'm gonna stick to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u24	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all let me thank Mr. Van Hees for the entertainment moment. At the same time, it's a little too bad. Raoul should have given you a text. It's not very supportive, I think. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have indeed asked for the declaration to be postponed and I regret this decision, even if it is not the first time, and probably not the last time, that this is happening in our country's history. I want to tell you in a transparent way the state of the political situation in which we find ourselves. There are two main reasons why the government made this proposal to postpone the government declaration. Certainly, the fact that we received the update of the figures from the Office of the Plan just three weeks before the date of October 11. The Plan reduced the level of growth due to Brexit, which made the budget negotiation process more complex. The second reason, of course, is the difficulty of concluding the final arbitrations in the negotiations in which we find ourselves. On the one hand, the government's political will is to approve a budget and, on the other hand, to adopt a package of reforms. I would like to take the opportunity to explain where we stand in the negotiation process. First of all, the budget. That is where we stand. We have taken the decision of principle to make an effort of EUR 3 billion in 2017. There are agreements on some important political principles. We want to do everything with the budget to protect and support purchasing power, the purchasing power of the people who work but also of the people who do not work. So far there has been the decision of principle not to touch the indexation. In principle, we have also decided not to introduce new taxes on work or on consumption. Those are the main lines of our exercise right now. Of course, clean-up remains an important challenge and an important goal. It is also intended to make progress in 2017 on reducing the deficit, in line with our European commitments. To be clear, it can be confirmed that there is an agreement today on the budget, provided that we are able to proceed to the final arbitration on the reform package over the next few hours or days. In the same way, I would like to tell you what reforms we are discussing at this time and about which we are trying to make progress. This is an ambitious package on the government table and the ambitious nature of this reform package is likely to help explain why we need a little more time to conclude the political arbitrations within the coalition. The first reform concerns flexibility and the labour market. Before the summer, we proposed to the social partners to deliver opinions on the proposals for labour market reforms and on the 1996 law on wage developments. We note that the social partners are not in a position to deliver an opinion and, therefore, we analyse how we can resolve these issues within the government. Firstly, the labour market. What's the point? We want to give social dialogue a real chance. That's important to us. We want to strike a balance between, on the one hand, private life and, on the other hand, flexibility for businesses, so that they can find the right answers to the challenges they face. That is the challenge we face. We have made considerable progress on these issues. But there are still a number of points of discussion that we must try to resolve within this coalition. The second point relates to the 1996 Act. You know that, for many years, many governments have "cashed their teeth" and have failed to reform or modernize this law. It's obviously important. Why? Because we have made substantial decisions to reduce the burden on work in order to reduce our competitiveness handicap and succeed in creating tens of thousands of additional jobs. That is why it is important for the government to be able to submit texts to Parliament very soon so that we can continue to support the creation of activities, the creation of jobs, which is the key to financing our social protections over the long term. No one here has a monopoly in terms of social concerns. This coalition and the four parties that make up it want to bring credible, concrete solutions to ensure a capacity to finance social protections in health care and pensions. As part of the reform of the 1996 Law, the aim is also to give the social partners the opportunity to achieve social agreements in the future. Another important reform on the government's agenda is its choice to pursue digitisation. Unfortunately, in the last few days with ING, we have noticed that the digital agenda is a crucial issue for the future. The commitment to work hard today for the creation of the jobs of the future, of the jobs of tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, is also our responsibility. There is also a strong political will among the four government parties to achieve concrete results in this area. This opens up the question of how more e-commerce can be promoted, in order to create more jobs in this sector too. Another important point is the reform of corporate taxation. What are our intentions? What are our orientations? After the tax reform aimed at reducing the burden on labour and after the efforts we have made to give more resources to our SMEs so that they can grow and create jobs, we also need to consider in the coming weeks how the government can make decisions on this matter and submit proposals and proposals in Parliament. That is a matter of common sense. What are our strengths? That's a greater attraction for our country. The choice of a reduction in the nominal rate is an interesting one. We want to give even more support to SMEs, growth and employment. Of course, we are also calling for legal certainty and stability. The latter is certainly an important point. It is necessary for such an important and complex reform to look very carefully and very carefully at the possibilities. The intention is to be able to make decisions. The fifth point that I want to highlight, and I do not intend to challenge a number of difficulties that we have to resolve within the coalition, is the question of taxation and, in particular, taxation on personal income. For this Parliament, and for this majority too, there is an issue that we have to face. As many have said, Mr Calvo has said, I share your view, it is a question of society that is asked: how can tax fairness and economic efficiency be combined? More tax justice and economic efficiency must be our aim. In my view, if we make the right choice in the following hours, days, months and years, it is possible to achieve a situation where fair taxation and economic efficiency, job creation and growth are allies for a better society, more prosperity and success in the challenge of restoring our economic model and our social protection. Ladies and gentlemen, a sixth important point in my view. I am very clear about this, because it is crucial for the future. We want a better future, we want more prosperity and we want more social cohesion, but to achieve results in this perspective it is also important to draw up a clear, strong strategy for investment, for public investment. That is, for example, the choice under my proposal to launch a pact for investment. I hope that it will be possible to find good and constructive cooperation with Parliament on this matter. I hope that we will also be able to cooperate positively with the Länder in this respect, in a positive perspective. No one here will dispute that this is crucial for mobility, for energy and for strengthening our infrastructure. It is necessary to invest more in the next few months. If we don't, it means a debt for the next generations. We have to take responsibility today. So do we. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is with sobriety, but also with the awareness of the responsibility that certainly weighs on my shoulders, as well as on those of each of my fellow members of this government, that I will speak to you. Very broad agreements of principle have been reached, because we have worked intensively. We have worked with difficulty, it is true, at certain times. I note that, as I speak to you, some efforts still need to be made. We have to take one more step towards each other. In two years, we have come a long way - I think from the bottom of my heart - towards economic efficiency and job creation. We have done so by also taking into account, for example in the tax shift, the need to strengthen the purchasing power of people who receive lows and lows. That too is a choice of tax fairness. I would like to emphasise our choice to give more purchasing power to low or middle-income people in the context of the tax shift very quickly, not in 2019 or 2020, but already in 2016. Those results are there. No one here can dispute that. A low-wager earns 80 euros more every month. What government has taken such a strong and just decision in the last 15 years? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these two years have not been easy. These two years were not simple. Of course, for a government to do a little less, not to move too much, not to breathe too much, it is simple, and we do not submit to the debate and the vigour of criticism. This is no choice we have made! For pensions, for health care, for taxation, for purchasing power, for the safety of our citizens, we have taken initiatives. When we were confronted a few months ago with this tragedy of attacks, we reacted. We have tried to mobilize all our efforts to be up to the challenge. We understand that governing is not simple. In a world that is changing so fast, where we are faced, for example, with uncertainties following the vote on Brexit in Britain, faced with uncertainties related to economic developments in the world, and also in Europe, faced with geopolitical uncertainties in southern Europe, with crises, instability, we are well aware that the duty of a government is to look in the short term, but also to look a little further to see how we can make decisions that lead our fellow citizens to have more hope, more confidence. It is our responsibility, and I measure it perfectly. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you have understood, the choice of this government is to continue to make every effort, in the coming hours, to conclude the most recent arbitrations and to ensure that stability is guaranteed. But I want to take advantage of this moment, of course, to appeal to everyone, in the coming hours, to show a sense of responsibility. We owe it to our country, we owe it to our fellow citizens. I would like to conclude these few words by telling you a conviction. The last few hours, the last few days have not been easy. We must have the humility and the frankness to recognize and say it. I am happy to do so here, in this beating heart of democracy. We must all measure, majority and opposition, what our duty is to demand from our fellow citizens, beyond the political democratic differences between us. I would like to address the majority, to address the coalition parties for a moment to tell them that my conviction is that what unites us is stronger than what divides us. We must demonstrate that. I am confident that we will combine fiscal fairness and economic efficiency to be able to meet the challenges before us. Thank you. [[Applause fed on the benches of the majority]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u26	Mr. Chairman, we have seen Mr.Ducarme table what I assume to be a motion. I wanted to know the content. Is it a motion of confidence or defiance or a simple motion?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u27	It's a simple motion, Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u28	Prime Minister, we thought you were here today to explain the chaos in your government, but it is as if you have come here to read a new year's letter to your government parties about what you would like. I saw from your attitude, Prime Minister, that you were a bit uncomfortable, because for everything you have said here today, you are not sure that you have a majority for it. I don't understand that denial of yours. You keep acting like nothing's going on. All the opposition parties, all the people outside this Parliament, are wondering what is going on with the government, why it is so divided. Why aren't the members hanging together? Why can't they sit at the negotiating table and solve our problems with which we sit every day? You come here to tell us: "We are doing well, which government has ever done this before?' [[Calling and mimicking Prime Minister Michel]] But, Prime Minister, you have asked a lot of people. A lot of questions! You're 4 billion short! Do you think you're doing so well? Do you really think you can be so tough and refer to what this government is doing? I would be much more humble in your place, Prime Minister. Much more humble! For you cannot keep your promises to the people. Besides, you have a government that is divided. Even now that we are sitting here, there are still government parties who say out there that they will not tolerate another government party's demand. I have asked you, Prime Minister, to resolve this division within your government. As long as you don't solve it, you can come here and have some nice talk, but none of those nice talk will come true. Make sure that the divisions within your government are resolved, otherwise you better stop it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u29	Mr. President, Prime Minister, what have you just told us? First of all, it's not your fault: it's Brexit; we received the numbers late three weeks ago. Prime Minister, all indicators have been red for months. You knew it! What did you wait for to work in a timely and serious manner? You are still telling us that ambitious reforms take time to be decided. ISOC, the mobilization of savings... but you decided yesterday, dear ministers. If you wanted to work seriously and effectively, you should have looked at these reforms for two years. The last two years, you say, would not have been simple for your government. That's right. But it was especially for the citizens that it was not simple, for the companies, for the sick... You said twice the word "health", but nothing was said in favour of the patients, even though your Minister of Health said that going beyond the two billion savings already accumulated would affect the patient. I hope that the patients, that the sick listen to us, that they listen to you. Personally, I believe that is totally unacceptable. But for patients, it is a form of slap that you send them and all health professionals. At the political level, you have made a "big finger" in the rostrum by urging the parties of the majority to return to the ranks. In particular, you addressed yourself to the CD&V. I will repeat what I said on Tuesday to my CD&V colleagues: resist! Resist because, for the past few days, you've obviously had a burst. It's been two years since it's been easy for you, it's true. But you want more tax fairness, more fairness in the brutal measures imposed on the majority of the population. You also want more budgetary and economic efficiency. Keep resisting because this government needs it! Prime Minister, you are telling us that you want a better future. You tell us that you want confidence, but it is not enough to quote the word trust. Trust must be created! The circus you've organized these last few days does not create confidence at all. He creates distrust! And it is not with defiance that people will want to invest; it is not with defiance that companies will want to launch; it is not with defiance that the self-employed will be able to hold on; it is not with defiance that the majority of citizens will be better tomorrow! This mistrust is your responsibility, you have created it in the last few days! Good luck!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u30	Prime Minister, admit it's a little strange what just happened. Your appeal and the last part of your speech really show that we have a serious problem. I encouraged you to show leadership. I was surprised to see how much you had to apply for applause from your majority. It has surprised me, ladies and gentlemen, and I think that this is quite unique, that a Prime Minister should be begging his Deputy Prime Ministers to deal with it in a different way, please. So your call has only underlined the problem. Prime Minister, I agree with your call. Mr Peeters, Mr Jambon, Mr De Croo, Mr Reynders, do what our country expects of you, make an agreement, give hope and perspective and do not let the Prime Minister flutter, because it is not a beautiful sight. We actually saw a bit of a State of the Union on the second Thursday of October, but without figures, without concrete proposals, especially about what has been, and at the moment without a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be a good thing if the majority parties were to remain silent here because they started landing. That would be a good thing. Mr Verherstraeten, I would understand that you are silent, saying that you will now try to get everything in order. But look what's going on out here. Mr Peeters, have you heard Mrs De Block? No? She has broken your proposal down to the ground; she has said that your added value tax is bad, including for people who work. So you have a huge problem at the moment. Mr Prime Minister, it is a pity that your problem is also the problem of all our compatriots, of all 11 million Belgians. Prime Minister, you say you can no longer avoid fiscal justice. I appreciate that. You're saying you need to grab that. But you're saying, and I've noted that you have to grab that for the next few hours, days or years. No, ladies and gentlemen, not in the next few years, that fair contribution of the greatest assets must now be made. That is what our citizens are asking for today. That is the call for justice, which is already resounding. You spoke about the investment pact. You have looked at our group and accepted our outstretched hand to work on it in Parliament, for which I thank you. However, you have not touched on the savings that are on the table. You will once again be the mailman of a lot of invoices with ordinary people. For example, you have not mentioned the savings in health care and benefits. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I fear that it will be another N-VA piece of work, again a budget that will make the invoices to ordinary people, to people who work hard, instead of appealing to wealth and multinationals. Prime Minister, the smallest child has seen that the government really has a problem. I can only encourage you to do that. Firstly, that is your responsibility, but it is also the responsibility of all the majority parties. Can I tell you one thing? If you do not accept the broad call for justice, we will often see it. The people have really had it with a majority that works that way. People are tired of being knocked on their door again and again. If you do not accept the call for justice now, you may be able to survive for a while. It may be possible to submit the budget, but we will see each other again very soon. So I can only encourage you to take that step towards which our country is longing: towards a fair contribution of the greatest capabilities. Our country is longing for a firm dose of hope and perspective instead of what we have just seen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think I can say that we have just had a relatively rare time. In fact, there are times when a Prime Minister uses the rostrum to launch an appeal. But a Prime Minister who uses the rostrum to appeal to his colleagues in the government, to his partners in the majority, it is, in my view, never before seen. As you said, this is a little bit of a call for help, a call for help that the Prime Minister has made in the rostrum. Barely revealed the menu of the files, the difficulties he faces. No one heard him commit to a specific schedule. He talked about a few hours, a few days, or even a few weeks. Prime Minister, are you still not finding out that it is the second Tuesday in October that you were expected in this chamber? Do you not discover that, on such sensitive issues as corporate tax reform, capital gains taxation, problems have already arisen in your government for some time now? Now you've been in the government for two years! Allow me to be dubative after your intervention in this rostrum. Let me also be dubative after seeing the absence of one of our colleagues. Indeed, Mr. De Wever, who was present at the beginning of the session, left this chamber when you went up to this gallery to read his newspaper at the cafeteria. Maybe he didn't want to hear the message you had to send him? Maybe you should talk to him? I'm still dubious, Mr. President. We're in expectation. We don't know the rest of our work. We don't know if the government is going to find any common ground and arbitration. It is rarely seen to live here, in plenary session, such a situation. Mr Reynders, you have a little experience, more than I do. Admit that we have not often seen a Prime Minister launch this kind of alarm call to his own majority! We will see it in the next few days, but, at the turn of what has been said by your colleagues, Prime Minister, whether in the media, on social media, in the corridors or in meetings, I fear that the change of course that we have called for of our wishes is unfortunately not at the rendezvous. I say "unfortunately" because the Belgians are waiting for him. As I said, we must leave the logic of austerity. We need to change the software. What you will simply seek is to have a minimum agreement within your majority. We'll see when you come back here, but I don't have much hope given your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u32	Mr. President, Prime Minister, you have given a two-part response. The first part was, I believe, addressed to the whole of Parliament. But I would say to you that in such a situation, in the situation we are experiencing, to be content with sticky effects and to raise the tone on some grandiose concepts to seek the support of your majority, that is very little. Not a word about budgetary balance! Not a word finally about your budget set on the backs of the sick, pensioners and workers! Not a word about capital gains or savings reforms! It is first, in a way, the empty chair, then the void of the answer. I do understand that, during your answer, Mr. De Wever stayed at the bar to read his diary. In the second part of your answer, you spoke to your majority. You gave the image of a man who was abject, disembodied, demanding the solidarity of his majority. You were applauded by this one. You've had flowers from each of the groups waiting for them to be right. I have no doubt that when you go back to your office, it's the pots that are waiting for you. The only hope, as far as my group is concerned, is not for you to stay or leave. Our only hope is that there will be no agreement on the backs of those who, since the first day, are in your sights, the most fragile of our society. We said it and said it again. A weak government with the strong, and strong with the weak: this is the image you have just given again. Obviously, that's what unites you. For all of you, on the benches of the majority, I wouldn't be very proud!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u33	Prime Minister, I don't understand why you didn't come to tell us this Tuesday. It would not have made any difference in substance, because you did not answer any of the questions. It might have made a difference with the panic applaus on the majority banks. I am convinced that with two days of crisis this would have sounded less, less loud and less therapeutically long. We are in a financial emergency and you are talking about structural reforms, but your government parties are arguing about symbolic dossiers, about the delusion of the day and are working on anything but the long-term vision. If you don't change that, you can come here and tell me what you want, but you won't get there. You must ensure that investment pays off, that the climate in which the economy can grow again is created. You must make sure that you do not drive economic growth and that the climate is upgraded before you bring in additional taxes. The tax burden is already sky high and needs to go down. You have not said a word about the expenditure side, despite all the questions I have asked about the billions going to migration and asylum or the billions going to the European Union. Do I have to deduce from this that everything is just going on as it has been for years and governments, that there will be no change in that either? However, that is the most important thing you need to do: you need to control spending. If one spends more every year than comes in, then one continues to accumulate deficits, then the public debt continues to rise. By the way, she's been doing that under your reign for two years. The interest rate is still low, but if it rises, then the budgetary impact of this is incalculable. Prime Minister, I am not surprised that you are dragging yourself from crisis to crisis and that you are failing to get the figures in order within those Belgian chalk lines. Maybe this is the time to change the gun's shoulder and draw the right conclusion. I am thinking of an analysis that was previously shared by the N-VA, in particular that it is only when institutional reforms are introduced that we can put socio-economic order in order. The coalition agreement states that there should be a budgetary balance in 2018. You have not spoken of this now, but if you do not fulfil that condition, then it was the condition for the N-VA to honour the Community's standstill for five years, and there is no reason why the Flemish side should still be satisfied with the Community's standstill. This has not been the case on the French-speaking side for a long time. Draw your conclusions. If one really wants structural reform, one can only reform institutionally, if one does not continue to muddle and then one will see what one will see. It does not inspire me and many others in any way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u34	Prime Minister, because of the divisions of your majority, be reduced to launching incantations, what humiliation! I think I can argue that since I was in Parliament, of all the prime ministers I heard during the parliamentary season, whatever the circumstances, you have managed to say even less than Yves Leterme in his time. But the current circumstances are of particular gravity both at national and European level. You are not entitled to refrain from exercising your leadership as Prime Minister. Some of your ministers are spreading in the press with their demands, plans and ultimatums. On the other hand, we have a Prime Minister who is unable to present to Parliament his personal vision of what this country's future and its economic plan should be. What an unacceptable weakness! You tell us, like a first-time student, that it is necessary to reconcile economic efficiency and fiscal fairness. Yeah, so what? What is your vision? What are your concrete proposals? What is your momentum, what is your dynamism in achieving this modest goal - for there are many others, of course? Nothing, not a word! No explanation, not even at the start of your government statement. We are witnessing a kind of renunciation – a guilty renunciation that is emptying your function. Beyond your person, it is simply the future of this country that is at stake. I finally believe that it does the business of those who want to plunge him into the marasm to better impose their ultimate choices. I can only regret it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u35	Mr President, Prime Minister, in the end, we don't know more than Tuesday, when you weren't there. We don't know any more because we were given vague and general statements. What we know is that the political crisis within your majority is far from over. When we address the parties of the majority by launching an incantatory "what unites us is more important than what divides us", it shows the degree of division! Finally, by means of hollow and general formulas, you offer us the prospect of continuing on the axis of this government, that is, still sacrifices for workers, sick people and other social beneficiaries and even gifts to capital. We're used to it. There's no self-criticism. You said we had to review the 1996 law. Indeed, in terms of sacrifice for the workers, we are going very hard! What has been said to workers since 1996? For the past twenty years, they have been told that sacrifices must be made, that wages must be moderated. I remember you saying that we were about to get to the end of the wage handicap. And when the end of the wage disadvantage is there, you tell the workers we're gonna change the rules of the game. For the past 20 years, wages have been moderated with the 1996 law and, today, when the wage handicap is eventually eliminated, we will change the rules of the game and continue to demand sacrifices. As far as the taxation of capital gains is concerned, you have told us nothing! Nothing! What is the position of the MR on this tax? We don't know. What is your position? We don't know. You told us that there is a need to reconcile efficiency and tax justice. I will tell you that in terms of taxes on consumption, it is both socially unjust and inefficient in the budget, but it is another debate. We raise a fundamental problem: efficiency and tax justice do not go hand in hand with symbolic measures. Indeed, this was the case with the "speculation" tax: small taxes, which are in fact symbolic taxes, "alibis" taxes to pass austerity, it does not work. Taxes that pay 34 million euros, it doesn't work. There should be a real budgetary alternative. Instead of always activating the unemployed and pre-pensionees or others, let us activate the fortunes to go to get the money where it actually is, with measures that do not bring back 34 million, but that can bring back several billion euros. Taxing capital gains on corporate taxes would bring $2 billion a year to the government budget. Of course, it goes against your gift policy, the one which aims precisely to reduce the return of corporate tax... Or let us tax the greatest fortunes, the richest 1%, with a tax of 1 to 3%. I mean in the majority: "if we have a measure that can tax the richest 1%, okay, we sign with two hands". This measure, it exists! We have tabled the bill here in the House. It's a millionaire tax that affects 1% and can raise $8 billion. This is another policy, Prime Minister, than the eternal sacrifices of workers and gifts to capital.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u36	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Catherine Fonck, Ms Vanessa Matz and Ms Isabelle Poncelet and by Messrs. Christian Brotcorne, Francis Delperée, Benoît Dispa, Michel de Lamotte and Benoît Lutgen and is worded as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Mrs Meryame Kitir and Catherine Fonck, by Messrs. Kristof Calvo and Jean-Marc Nollet, by Mrs Laurette Onkelinx and Barbara Pas and by Messrs. Olivier Maingain and Marco Van Hees and the Prime Minister's response, asks the government 1. to present its 2017 budget to the European Commission for this Saturday, 15 October, in accordance with the European regulations governing the establishment of the budget (Two Pack); 2. to present the same budget to the House of Representatives as well as ambitious reforms with a view to improving the socio-economic situation in our country; 3. to come with effective measures, which take into account the general interest and the necessary balance that must exist as regards the burden of efforts to reduce the budget deficit; 4. to examine a plan B with the following five axes: 4.1. a plan to boost investments focusing on mobility, energy, the innovative digital economy and health; 4.2. a balanced tax reform to support employment with a. a reduction in labour costs and a rebalancing of tax measures to support SMEs; b. mobilization of savings towards the real economy; 4.3. a great social pact with the social partners, balanced and sustainable, which does not focus on wendbaar werk but which really combines flexibility and respect for private and family life; 4.4. a revision of the health care savings plan with a view to limiting the effort to the two billion already decided and not to burden patients' bills again; 4.5. strengthening security and combating terrorism through a sustainable budget." A motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck, Mrs Vanessa Matz and Mr Isabelle Poncelet and by Mr Christian Brotcorne, Mr Francis Delpérée, Mr Benoît Dispa, Mr Michel de Lamotte and Mr Benoît Lutgen, and reads as follows: "The Chamber, Mrs Meryame Kitir and Mrs Catherine Fonck, Mr Kristof Calvo and Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Mrs Laurette Onkelinx and Mrs Barbara Pas, and Mr Olivier Maingain and Mr Marco Van Hees and the Prime Minister's reply, calls on the Government 1. submit its 2017 budget to the European Commission by Saturday, 15 October, as required by the European Regulations on Budget Formatting (the "Two-Pack"); 2. to submit the same budget to the Chamber of Representatives immediately thereafter, together with ambitious reforms aimed at improving the socio-economic situation of our country; 3. propose effective measures which take account of the general interest and the necessary balance in the efforts to be made to reduce the budget deficit; 4. consider a plan B containing the following five main lines: 4.1. a plan to reinvigorate investment, particularly in mobility, energy, innovative digital economy and healthcare; 4.2. a balanced tax reform to support employment, a. labour costs are reduced and tax measures are rearranged to support SMEs; b. the savings are mobilised in favour of the real economy; 4.3 a large-scale, balanced and sustainable social pact with the social partners, which does not focus solely on workable life, but combines flexibility and respect for private and family life; 4.4. a revision of the health savings plan in order to limit the effort to the EUR 2 billion already decided and not to increase the invoice for patients once again; 4.5. increasing security and strengthening the fight against terrorism through a sustainable budget." A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Peter De Roover, Patrick Dewael, Denis Ducarme et Servais Verherstraeten. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Peter De Roover, Mr Patrick Dewael, Mr Denis Ducarme and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u37	Mr Prime Minister, I heard you say here a few months ago that you were particularly proud that you were in charge of a government without a Community programme. At that time, the N-VA Group applauded, with a few exceptions. But what am I hearing, despite the Community's standstill? I hear Mrs Marghem wants to re-federalise climate power. I hope she wasn't talking about the climate in the government, because that's not so good. I read that Mrs Defraigne, President of the Senate, wants to re-federalise family benefits. In July, Mr De Croo wanted to re-federalise mobility, energy and the environment. That is a bit strange, of course, because energy and the environment are just powers of a liberal minister in the Flemish government, especially Mr Tommelein. Luckily there is, because he whistled Mr. De Croo back. He also whistled Mrs. Marghem back: she must first look into her own plate. And rightly so. But it can be pretty bad. In 2014 we left with a Community standstill, but two years later in 2016 we want to refederalise. That's the power of change, because that's a change, not a small one. You have recently replied to a question from Mrs Fonck in a committee that there is nothing in the atoma paper on Rule 195. I'm starting to get scared that there's something in the atoma notebook about herpherdization. So my first question is whether there is anything in the atoma notebook about herpherdization. Does the stand still also apply to the MR and Open Vld or only to the N-VA? I get that impression. I would like to hear your opinion on that. Finally, are the positions of Mrs Marghem, Mr De Croo and Mrs Defraigne personal or governmental views?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you, Mr Vuye, for the interesting question, especially after the previous discussions we had in this assembly. I am a little sad, of course, but I confirm what I have always said: there will be no new state reform during this legislature, that is clear, nothing has changed. If some members of the government express a personal opinion, that is not necessarily the government's position. The government's position is very clear: no new state reform during this legislature. After the next elections, we will see what is possible, but it will be the responsibility of the political parties after the elections to take any decisions in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u39	Thank you for your reply, Prime Minister. If you've read L.Echo, you know you shouldn't talk about 2019, but about 2024. So far I have not said anything about CD&V and I will say something about that now, something positive. In 2012-2013, Mr Verherstraeten launched a number of times an idea for a knowledge centre on state reform. In fact, that is a very good idea, Prime Minister: with such a centre of knowledge you should not smoke out, then you do not need a fridge or a freezer, then you can just talk about it and just prepare those things. I can tell you one thing, Prime Minister: a state reform, that is like a budget. If you start on time, you will do a good job, but if you start too late, you will always do bad work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u40	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I went to the refugee camp in Calais, together with Hilde Vautmans van Open Vld and the vzw Humain. We have seen poignant scenes there. I must say that I am still impressed by what I saw there. It was a lot worse than I thought. There are ten thousand people who are packed together, often in tents without any heating. Among them are a thousand children without parents. We have been able to speak to an eight-year-old Afghan boy who has been staying in that camp for eight months without any guidance whatsoever, completely abandoned. The camp is fed by the French government, which delivers two thousand meals a day. However, there are 10,000 people in that camp. The rest of the work is done purely by volunteers. Minister, those children without parents have done nothing wrong. They are not aware of any kind of procedure. All they want and deserve is to be protected and withdrawn from that swamp, from that jungle of Calais. That will not happen, however. The French government is very inadequate in this respect. We are talking about a Member State of the European Union and we are talking about a place 60 kilometres away from Belgium. Let us not be naive. What needs to be done is that these people should be given the opportunity to apply for asylum. Many of the people concerned are not aware of this possibility. They will not be given that opportunity. For those who are refused asylum, the return process must of course be started. An evacuation has been announced on October 17th. There is a chance that these children will fall into the hands of smugglers. Minister, I would ask you to contact your French colleague to ask for human solutions, such as humane care. Belgium must also be ready at the border with assistance and with an asylum procedure that can be carried out correctly. Finally, I would like to propose that, if France really fails to provide care to a thousand children without parents, Belgium takes a fair share of it and takes care of at least one third of the number of children without parents. A third could stay in France and the last third could be accommodated in Britain. As a neighbouring country, 60 kilometres away, I do not think we can stand by and watch this poignant situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u41	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, let me begin by saying very clearly that the evacuation of Calais and Grande-Synthe is absolutely justified. These camps are a real disgrace to France, but also to Europe. More than ten thousand people are there in inhuman conditions. My colleague has already said that more than a thousand children depend on themselves. We must talk today about the consequences of this evacuation. The key question is: what about the people who are not prepared to leave for the 196 asylum centres which, according to France, are ready to receive these people? Will this create a frontier flow? If so, what border current? It's not new. We've known for a long time that evacuation is coming. Very preparations have been made both in Belgium and France. This happened to us on three levels: the local level with the police zones, the provincial level with the governor and the federal level. The Prime Minister was interviewed in this hemisphere at the end of February about the imminent evacuation. He said, I quote: "We will do everything we can to avoid becoming a no-go zone, not having illegal camps on our territory. We will work with France, including in the area of return policy. I have three questions for you, Mr Deputy Prime Minister. What about the situation in those camps? Is it true that there is still no complete official registration of the people who are staying there, let alone that there would be figures on the number of asylum applicants, who want to go to England or who want to apply for asylum in our country? Can this be called for and, if necessary, postponed until all children are officially registered? My second question concerns our preparations. Does this happen in perfect harmony and coordination with the French? I am a little concerned when I read today that our governor needs to hear this through the press and not hear from the French themselves how these people will be transported. Thirdly, is it true that there was another meeting with the Prefect this afternoon? Was the federal level represented there? What is the outcome of this meeting, if any?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of Calais and the fall-out for our country is not new. That's a concern that's been going on for a long time. I can confirm what the Prime Minister has said, what I have said here a number of times and what we have done so far, namely that we will not allow us to have conditions in West Flanders and on the coast as in Calais. We will not allow that. That is what our policy is aimed at. I shall first reply to Mr De Vriendt's questions on the humanitarian aspect. The tragedy that is taking place is that those people and those working with these children do not want to apply for asylum, either in France or in Belgium. They have a focus, they want to go to the UK. At the first wave of evacuation of the camps at Calais, just before the summer, we organized reception points. We've picked up people there that we hadn't registered yet to register. Every time, they were given their rights, including asylum applications. They obviously didn't go into that. A great statesman once said here: "You can lead a horse to water, but you can't make it drink." That's the drama that's happening here. They are focused on the United Kingdom. If they do not want to apply for asylum and cannot go to the United Kingdom, we should be able to send them back, but Iraq will not let them in. After all, they are very often Iraqis. That's the drama. As far as the problems of these children are concerned, I sympathise with you. If we see children coming here, we shall receive them in a humane manner. We will ensure that they do not become further victims of their situation. However, everything starts with the application for asylum. Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, as far as you are concerned, we are in permanent contact with the French government. We have made agreements with the French government. When they effectively proceed to the evacuation, we will be notified. Contact points will be organised. That's all organized, it's done. We'll have contact points. The French have also guaranteed us that no drop-out will come here, as far as they can control it. We will be present at that time and follow up on matters. Indeed, there has been another meeting today to set the date of the consultation, but that date has not yet been fixed. We are following this on a permanent basis, firstly from a humanitarian point of view, and secondly from the point of view of preventing such phenomena from occurring on our coasts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u43	Mr President, Minister, if it were all so easy to apply for asylum, why are the thousand children without parents still staying in that camp? Surely you can't ask a ten-year-old to apply for asylum? You need to get on those kids and get them out of the refugee camp. Moreover, the French government comes every day by bus to the camp. Every day, 40 refugees are given the opportunity to apply for asylum. Hundreds of asylum seekers are waiting each time. You state that they can apply for asylum, but they do not. That's just not true in the facts. It applies to about half of the population of the refugee camp. They want to go to England. That's true. However, the other half really wants to apply for asylum. However, the reception centres in France are overcrowded. That is why I repeat my proposal to you: make the offer to receive at least one third of those children without parents in Belgium. When people cross the border after the evacuation of the refugee camp and end up in West Flanders, place them on the radar and don't let them swim out. Give them a fair chance at asylum. If the answer to the asylum procedure is "yes', they may remain. However, if they do not have the right to asylum, they must of course return. I therefore ask for an active attitude from the Belgian authorities in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u44	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for the reassuring answer, because all the measures are being taken and will be taken to ensure that the problem does not shift to our territory. It is positive that private security companies have been deployed to monitor a number of sites. A reinforced police capacity and border controls will be in place. In any case, that is very positive. We may also have to express our support and respect for the people on the ground who will be facing an important task in the coming days and next week. On the one hand, that is the humanitarian aspect and on the other hand, that is the security aspect in our country. As far as the coordinated approach with France is concerned, you say that there is no problem at all that this is being streamlined. I believe that France, in the field of official registration, is leaving who is in that camp and where are they going to fall a number of stitches. I know, that is France and not us, but perhaps we can at least call for the registration of children in the contacts. I come back from the Council of Europe in Strasbourg today. On European territory, the disappearance of unaccompanied minors is a major problem. I also believe that it is necessary to take a European approach, but I think that as a neighbouring country, we should not look away and we should not see these children fall prey to smugglers for the second time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u45	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, it is our responsibility to dismantle the railway police. Some information on this subject had already been circulated in the press some two weeks ago. But today it is a somewhat more official document which confirms the dismantling. So the tasks currently assumed by this police force should be carried out by the police areas, which is naturally contrary to our wishes, given the burden that is already theirs. The concern is all the greater as last September, railway police officers complained about all the means dedicated to security linked to the risk of attacks, devolved to Zaventem, without any provision being made for the metro in particular. Two attacks, two different treatments? Coincidentally or not, these comments were made at the time when Commissioner Jo Decuyper, former boss of the railway police, took over the direction of the Zaventem aviation police. In the long term, the current 600-strong railway police would be reduced or destroyed, in any case, initially reduced to 185 units. Internal services would even be abolished, i.e. radicalism, immigration. The pickpocket team would be halved. In fact, there would be a merger of the anti-aggression team with the investigation team and a halving of the force. Trade unions have already asked on several occasions whether the railway police will still be in a position to carry out all their tasks when they are out of control. In the future, who will be able to intervene in particular in the event of new threats of attacks on the metro? Is there any question of returning to the former SNCB CEO's project to arm the Securail agents? Once again, instead of increasing the resources and increasing the numbers where this proves necessary, you give with one hand what you take back from the other. In any case, that is the impression we have. Minister, do you confirm – I hope not – this project, which is mentioned in an official document that I do not wish to disclose? What is your vision for the future of the railway police?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u46	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the specialized division of the Federal Railway and Metro Police provides interventions on the various transport networks, including police officers specially trained for this field. As far as Brussels is concerned, every day almost one million passengers use public transport. To ensure their comfort and safety, there are 160 prevention officers, nearly 200 security officers and numerous cameras. So the presence of police officers is also an important factor in ensuring security. I also believe that there is a plan to restructure the federal railway and metro police. According to the information I was able to obtain, incident management would be transferred to the metro stations and stations, to the local police. Federal police would continue to deal with incidents that may occur between metro stations and stations. The closure of police offices in the Nord and Midi stations is still mentioned. Reference is also made to the closure of the community police responsible for linking SNCB to STIB. Minister, what about this restructuring project? Is it part of a global reflection? If so, are there any contacts with the local police? If so, are there any compensation to strengthen these local police in the context of these missions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u47	Colleagues, I can be very brief. No, there is no question of restructuring or downsizing of the SSC. We have not yet... We do not intend to achieve a dismantling. No timetable is defined in this sense. But it is true that, for the moment, there are problems at the SPC in Brussels. My services are in contact with them to analyse how we can solve these difficulties, but this will never be a dismantling of these highly appreciated police forces, who have made a huge effort in the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u48	Mr Minister, I hope that your language came up when you said that it was "not yet on the agenda".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u49	I corrected that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u50	You've rectified, okay. So I think it's really more than time to go to Brussels police, and local police in general, to explain that this project is a false information. There is a well-legitimate panic in police areas that think that they will be given additional tasks without the means going on. If the police need to be strengthened for the Canal Plan, we must not go to the railway police to do so. I've often told you, let's stop undressing Paul to redress James. That's often what you do when it comes to policing. You announce additional staff and, in fact, you remove. You give it with one hand and you take it from the other. I really hope that the commitment you have just made to this House is not a dismantling or even a restructuring in the direction of a reduction. The railway police should not suffer the slightest euro of savings. On the contrary, it must be strengthened, particularly as a result of the dramatic events that we have experienced in our territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u51	Minister, I insist that any reform be carried out in close cooperation with the local police in the Brussels Region. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u52	Mr President, Mr Minister, we have heard, in the last few weeks and just now, the majority push for cocoricos. Indeed, in Belgium everything seems to go perfectly. The jobs are doing well, the purchasing power of Belgians is intact or even improved, the miracles announced arrive thanks to the great reforms of flexibility of the work in excess! More seriously, I wanted to talk to you calmly and with great humility about a study carried out by Solidaris which reveals that 40% of workers are struggling to complete their end of the month. They can't put a hundred aside. The work no longer makes it possible to actually make life plans. Worse, for many, it is not even enough to live! We already knew that 15% of our population was at risk of poverty: pensioners, the unemployed and single-parent families. Now it's the workers who are getting poorer! Even today, a survey by Solidaris, conducted among more than 800 workers, highlights the difficulties encountered by many of them who find it difficult to make ends meet. Of the workers surveyed, 29% say they can just close their month; 8% say they live with an open account; 3% say they can't make it and fear they'll slip into poverty. These figures are worrying. And it is obviously not the measures taken by your government that will improve things. On the contrary, these measures only continue to impoverish our citizens, especially the workers. I am thinking of the index jump, the increase in the cost of visiting certain specialists, the increase in VAT on electricity, the increase in excise duties on diesel, etc. Now you want to tackle workers' wages harder by amending the 1996 law which allows the social partners to negotiate wage increases.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u53	Your question, please!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u54	Minister, your government is looking for $2.8 billion. Our fears are great that the bill will again be addressed to workers and more fragile people. Isn't it time for you to make a clear commitment by stopping attacking the weakest in our society and stopping touching the purchasing power of our citizens? When will your government finally change course? When are you finally going to make the most affluent contributions and stop attacking the workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u55	Mr President, Mrs Winckel, I have noted all the figures you have mentioned. I agree with you that poverty is a very serious problem that needs to be addressed. However, there are other figures. Under difficult economic circumstances, the government has tried to preserve the purchasing power of workers. Here I would like two studies from the Planning Office. Its September 2016 forecast shows that purchasing power increases every year: + 0.5% in 2014, + 1.3% in 2015, + 1% in 2016, + 1.1% in 2017. The tax shift's influence on the increase in purchasing power is clear and clear. According to the impact assessment at the end of 2015, the tax shift increases purchasing power by 0.81% in 2015, by 0.68% in 2016 and up to 2.25% in 2017. Mrs Winckel, poverty is a very serious problem. The figures we have are different from yours, but I agree to look at the figures in the study you mentioned in order to find solutions. This is not the time to set out all the decisions made in Budget 2017, but I am confident that we will be able to discuss them once the government has made its decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u56	Minister, your answer is indicative of a war of numbers. It's unfortunate to get to this point. We feel that, in the population, this is not right! Get out of your office, go see the people! There are difficulties. They're numbers, they're reports. Go meet the people! Consider the totally unfair measures you have taken in two years. You have accepted index leaps, flexibility of work to excess, to break social concertation, measures directly reducing the purchasing power of people and now you are quoting reports... Why? To apologize for these measures that are totally abject? Wake up, Mr. Peeters! When you say you want to take just and fair action, we can follow you. But really, it's time to wake up and feel the pulse of the population. It is still sad to think that more than 850,000 women live below the poverty line. It is time to move on, to work on part time. But I didn't hear anything from you, except an enumeration of numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u57	Mr. Chair, Minister, a press release from Minister Borsus announced this week great news for employment. In six months, the zero contribution measure created 3,400 jobs. Other reforms have been undertaken by the government in terms of supporting the employment and competitiveness of enterprises. I will mention a few of them: the reduction of social contributions, measures for night workers, flexi-jobs, etc. The results are here. I assure you, I am delighted. Creating employment has always been the leitmotif of this government. According to figures from the National Bank of Belgium, 76,000 jobs have been created in two years. According to Eurostat, the number of jobseekers has never been so low in 25 years. In addition, 4,623 employers were able to create 15,568 flexi-jobs in six months. Companies, especially SMEs, continue to engage, and we welcome this. The figures show that. Minister, I would like to take stock with you of the short- and medium-term employment prospects. We must not hide that the zero contribution measure is a success. It has allowed employers to hire and workers to find work. I would like to know, for the sectors concerned by this provision, what the profiles of workers are and what the figures are in terms of regional breakdown. Thank you for the answers you will give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Cassart, the measures taken by the government to reduce wage costs under the tax shift did not fail their aim of creating jobs. We see a significant increase in the number of new jobs, especially among small and medium-sized enterprises. This proves that in the past, a young entrepreneur had an obstacle to overcome in order to be able to carry out his first recruitment. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we see that we have been able to significantly reduce this obstacle. I've got the numbers you're asking for. In 2016, the new employers were mainly active in the trade, catering, construction, liberal professions, and scientific and technical activities. The Flemish and Walloon regions have almost the same distribution, with a slightly larger share in the construction sector in the Walloon Region and in the catering industry in the Flemish Region. For the Brussels-Capital Region there are more new employers in trade, in scientific and technical activities, but less in construction. Mrs Cassart, I am pleased to provide you with the detailed figures by sector that you have requested. As far as the profile of the employees is concerned, I can give you the following. In the figures for the recruitments of the first trimester of 2016, we find that the ratio of men to women is 60-40. Of the men, about 75% received a full-time contract, of the women half. When we zoom in on the aspect of age, we see that the majority of recruitments took place in both men and women in the category 30-39 years. The lowest recruitment rate is for the under-25s and the over 50s; in both categories men have a small gap of 2%. As you pointed out, Madam, this measure has not missed its impact. The beneficial effects that we already see in the short term also ensure long-term effects, which benefits the Belgian economy in general and job creation in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u59	Mr President, Minister, I thank you for taking stock of this measure and of the employment as it has been taken over by this government. Yes, some people are emerging from the unemployment spiral; yes, employment is a guarantee of social integration; yes, "first worker-zero contribution" measures have given some people the opportunity to find a job and employers the opportunity to hire. It's a win-win operation that I'm looking forward to. I hope that this government will continue to work to create jobs because that is what we have set ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Foreign Affairs, our B-FAST team has gained an excellent reputation over the years through a series of very successful actions abroad. Unfortunately, we have to say that the last two years have had a positive reputation. There was Nepal for example: B-FAST came late with the wrong tools and had to return to this matter undecided. This was discussed in the External Relations Committee and was promised to submit an evaluation by the end of 2015. Today is 20 months after the operation and we haven't seen a report yet. Mr. Secretary, when will we see that? Secondly, on 3 October last, so before the disaster, this is even worse, the Haitian government writes to the UN and asks for help in advance. On 4 October, the European authorities, in particular the European Emergency Aid Organisation, will be asked by Haiti. On 5 October we know what Haiti is asking for, including water treatment plants and medical support. We read in the newspapers that the team, which was ready to leave, is not coming off the ground. Some refer to your department. When did the planning committee meet? When did the coordination come together? The argument you put in the newspaper, that you were waiting for UN coordination, does not make any sense. Haiti had clearly indicated what was desired. Other countries have been hit with help on the ground. We in Belgium have remained on the ground again. We ask you to clarify this, Minister. It is a serious human problem: 1 500 000 people were affected, 350 000 people are waiting for emergency aid and 1 000 have died. Once again, Belgium makes a very silly figure with B-FAST.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u61	Minister, I will not repeat all the dates, which my colleague has already put in. Following the hurricane raging over the Caribbean and Haiti, a lot of communication has appeared in the media in recent days. A team would have been ready, packed and failed to leave, but the team said they weren't allowed to. Your communication, Minister, said that we can leave, but that we are waiting for the UN to give us the green light. Another source said it was no longer necessary, that it was already too late and that we should stay here. Finally, on Radio 1 yesterday, someone from Doctors Without Borders said that it is absolutely essential that we still get there, because a great deal of help is still needed. Mr. Secretary, Matthew is raving. It's quiet. What's going on? That is a great pity for the Haitians, on the one hand, and great uncertainty here in Belgium, with a lot of questions about Belgian aid for those affected, on the other. With my questions on Belgian aid, I can only address you, Minister. As far as B-FAST is concerned, when did the question come? Who's it to? Has it been decided whether B-FAST is still on mission? If that decision has been made, how has it been made? Has there been any consultation with the departments? Has the Planning Committee or the Coordination Council met? If one still leaves, in what constellation will that happen? If we decide that B-FAST is no longer leaving, how will we help Haiti? That seems to me to be the most important thing. There is an urgent need for help there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u62	Minister, you all have in mind the horrific images of the consequences of Hurricane Matthew in Haiti. When we saw the first images, we expected B-FAST to be immediately mobilized and sent to the site. In fact, on Monday, the press informed us that a team was ready to go to the field, but that, unfortunately, this team had not received the agreement of the government. You have, it is true, denied this information. The result is that today, B-FAST is still grounded and, given the deadlines, will not, in all likelihood, be on site. This situation unfortunately gives grain to be ground to those who would like to see this structure disappear, and I am of course thinking here of the N-VA. Since the operation in Nepal, this political group has been calling this tool into question. I am not saying that reforms are not necessary within B-FAST, but there is no question here of adopting a priori an attitude of privatisation of the tool, as some of my colleagues do. There is also no question of seeing him, unfortunately, as a Belgian tool, which could annoy some members of the N-VA. I think that today you should finally submit to Parliament the audit and evaluation commissioned after the operation in Nepal, so that we can all discuss it calmly and make any improvements to this tool. I come to my questions, Minister. Did you actually receive a request for assistance regarding the passage of this hurricane in Haiti? Did you or did you not give your green light for this mission? What was the position of the other departments involved in B-FAST? How do you explain that to date, we have not received this audit and evaluation from B-FAST?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to answer the two questions on the reform of B-FAST. In July there was a note on the table of the Council of Ministers. That note was approved and we are continuing to work on the improvement of B-FAST. I am prepared to come to the committee with an analysis of the audit and the various proposals made by the departments on the improvement. We have asked all the departments concerned to continue the process of improvement. Secondly, you were referring to it, Mrs Grovonius and Mr Van der Maelen, and of course I regret the comments that are sometimes made by one or the other volunteer - and I can understand their enthusiasm - concerning B-FAST. But B-FAST, that's not it. It is not about whether anyone wants to leave, it is about whether the request is addressed to us and whether, indeed, we have the capacity to respond to what is being asked of us. I'm not going to recall what Mr. Van der Maelen said. On 3 October, there was, in a preventive manner, not only from Haiti but also from Jamaica, a request to the United Nations platform to prepare for emergency aid. On 4 October, the same applies to European coordination. However, there was no request to countries, particularly Belgium, on a specific point of intervention. Mr Van der Maelen, as early as 4 October 2016, we had a meeting with the four departments involved in B-FAST to look at the possibilities we have to help Haiti. I won't give you the details of that meeting. However, the decision was a so-called prudent planning for a preparatory phase in a possible intervention. There was also a planning committee on 11 October 2016 which concluded that no concrete proposal for action could be presented, as reporting from the disaster area in South West Haiti could not provide precise figures. On 3 October 2016, there was the concrete news from Haiti that it was not necessary to send a foreign medical aid team. There was no demand for a medical team. Mr President, I would like to quote another member of B-FAST. In Knack, Dr Gerlant van Berlaer, whom you may know, Mr Van der Maelen, stated that the fuss is unfounded. The material was of course ready and is always ready in a hangar of B-FAST in Peutie. There was indeed a team ready, but that doesn't mean it was packed and packed at Melsbroek military airport. Standing ready means that the necessary steps have been taken to be replaced at work if necessary, according to Mr van Berlaer. Haiti had asked for preventive aid 24 hours before the passage of the hurricane to the United Nations, which was a first in urgency. That application also ended up with B-FAST. However, in order to be able to leave, there had to be a specific question from Haiti, which never happened. The normal procedure has therefore been followed. Mr President, my final word is for Mrs Bellens. At the meeting of the Committee with all the departments responsible for B-FAST, Development Cooperation informed that through the flexible funds and the World Food Programme Development Cooperation, financial resources were thus decided to be made available for the purchase and distribution of emergency aid. In addition, the Humanitarian Aid for Development Cooperation budget could examine whether unused commitments could not be deduced from the project in Haiti for reconstruction purposes. We will follow the situation further. Without a precise question to B-FAST, we will not send a team. After a precise question, perhaps that will be possible. In the meantime, we can help Haiti through international organisations and directly through our humanitarian fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u64	Minister, I have listened to you with a loud voice. The UN mechanism was launched on 4 October. We knew in Europe what the needs were in Haiti. There has indeed been a meeting with prudent planning. Shelters, medical assistance and a water treatment facility were ready. All this could not leave until after 11 October, after it was reported in the newspaper that the Belgian aid was ready, but could not leave because of twitching, especially from your department. It is a shame that B-FAST with a very good reputation is destroyed by bad governance, bad governance from the FPS Foreign Affairs. It's the second time we've made fun of ourselves. In the discussions, my group will defend the view that, as for domestic disasters, where coordination lies with the Prime Minister, coordination will also be removed from the Foreign Affairs Office for foreign disasters and placed with the Prime Minister. It cannot continue that people in need in the world are the victims of Belgian twilight and poor governance of the FPS Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Above all, it is important that Haitians from all over the world, but also from Belgium, get the help they deserve. I will not use the tone of my colleague, but what strikes me is that in the last few days there has been some uncertainty about how it works. Hence my questions again. I've already posted them after Nepal, and I will continue to ask them. When will the Chamber receive the external audit and internal evaluations? I heard last summer that the government agreed to an audit, which I had already proposed in December. I am therefore very pleased that the government agrees with me and makes the same decision. I am in happy expectation of those documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u66	Minister, thank you for your response, but not for your speed in the action that followed this disaster. I would remind you that the PS Group will continue to defend a structure that is public, federal and multidisciplinary for B-FAST, but my colleagues do. If improvements can be made, of course, we are in favour of it, but its outright questioning is unacceptable to us. Here, Minister, it is our urgent international action that has been called into question, even though our expertise is real in the sector. Above all, ladies and gentlemen, today we choose not to help people who are suffering. I therefore urgently call for transparency and a burst of solidarity that would greatly honour our country. It is indeed unbearable today to tell me that Belgium is going to war more easily than it is responding to the imperative of international solidarity in the face of such tragedies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u67	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, together with Caterpillar and ING, this government has realized that it is unable to protect workers from rapacious multinationals. The observation is terrible: you have nothing to put these raptors in step and send them back to the niche. The CETA is the TTIP Trojan, the agreement with the United States. It is also, through the specifically created arbitral tribunal, tailor-made for multinationals, a way of giving Europe's keys to these same multinationals. Today, Caterpillar and ING kill our jobs, the "Jobs! Jobs! Jobs!" Tomorrow, Bayer and Monsanto will use this famous International Court System (ICS) to finely impose their GMO poison, pesticides and others in our fields, then on our plates, and then sell us the medicines that can fight the diseases they have created themselves. In order to satisfy certain States, regions or proto-States, the partners of this treaty have created an interpretative declaration which, in the eyes of many jurists, proves to be "a cache-sex of free trade". Then you have a problem. Resolutions were passed yesterday in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and others will be voted in the Walloon Parliament in the near future. Similar ambitions are expressed in the Brussels and German-speaking parliaments, where Liberals sit, to prevent governments from giving you the opportunity to sign CETA on 27 October at the Europe-Canada Summit. Will you sign CETA on behalf of Belgium and its federated entities? Before that, what will be Belgium's vote in the Council on 18 October when this question of CETA returns to the table of the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u68	Mr President, Minister, a number of Belgian Parliaments are currently blocking CETA. This does not allow our Prime Minister to sign the agreement between the EU and Canada on behalf of our country. However, since 2009, with a strong mandate from among others the PS, the European Commission has been negotiating that trade agreement with Canada. What's it about? For Belgium, with its open economy and the importance of exports, CETA is important. That was the case in 2009 when the mandate was granted, and it is still the case. It is about opportunities for our companies in Canada, including competition in public procurement. It is also a question of removing customs tariffs. It's about economic growth and jobs. It's basically about our prosperity. Think, for example, of the EU treaty with South Korea. This is now in force for five years, and exports increased by 55%. It is right that a whole range of organisations and NGOs have expressed a great deal of concern over the past few years about international conventions, including CETA. These concerns are also taken seriously, both by the European Commission and Canada. We see, for example, that a new, strengthened system for dispute resolution has been developed. We also see that this agreement has allowed Canada to ratify missing ILO agreements. Here important work has been done by civil society, and it has had results. But the Brussels and Walloon Parliament are now calling on their governments not to sign the agreement with Canada. This radical position against free trade puts our country in an extremely difficult position at European and international level. Our country will thus become a stumbling block to European trade policy. Minister, do you think that the agreement meets the mandate given to the European Commission? If the Prime Minister cannot sign it, what are its implications for Flanders, Belgium and the European Union? The credibility of our country is at stake here, not only vis-à-vis Canada, but also vis-à-vis the European partners and vis-à-vis future trading partners. Have you received any comments on the matter? What's your reaction to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u69	Mr President, Minister, the agreement between Canada and the EU will normally be signed on 27 October. It is good to see that the negotiating mandate, which was also given by the PS and CDH in 2009 and 2011, will be fully respected. As the previous speaker said, this treaty has nothing but advantages for us. For example, customs tariffs will be abolished, accounting for EUR 500 million in savings for exporters. In addition, public procurement in Canada can be promoted, which is good for an open economy such as ours. However, some states in our country seem to be keen to block that process and to embarrass Belgium internationally. Unlike their comrades in France and Germany, the Socialists in our country are opposed to the signing of that treaty. I will go even further, because even the Syriza Communists in Greece are in favour of the signature of CETA. Rather than acknowledge that and admit their concerns, the Socialists are blocking the trade policy of the European Union as a whole. The Commission had asked in advance to pass on the concerns, but the Walloon Government failed to do so. After the sabotage of the deal between bpost and PostNL, it is now quite clear that the PS, and by extension the socialists, are opting for a rotten strategy. They're sabotaging the economy. While the Walloon government continues to supply weapons that it is a sweet pleasure to Saudi Arabia, it is concerned about respecting human rights in the case of Canada. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I call that pure hypocrisy. Canada is a country that is very committed to human rights, as high as the European Union. Minister, if Belgium does not sign the treaty, what impact will it have? Do you see any way to put a Belgian signature under that treaty?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u70	Mr President, Minister, of course Canada is an important partner of Belgium and the European Union. It is even a friendly country. But it is not that we should not be vigilant. Mr Vandeput, the opposition of the PS to this agreement is neither a sign of Euroscepticism nor a manifestation of some mistrust of Canada. On the other hand, our will is to preserve our socio-economic model, our jobs...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u71	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u72	Be careful, you will lose your reputation as a social liberal! Feet and fists linked to multinationals...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u73	Please continue your intervention, Ms. Govonius.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u74	So I said that we want to preserve our socio-economic model, our jobs and our social and environmental standards. Unfortunately, the interpretative declaration attached to CETA does not change the text proposed to us. Mr Vandenput, Mr Miller, the problem lies in the fact that today we are faced with the dogmatic positions of the MR and the Open-Vld which consider free trade to be good in itself, that it is a remedy for all evils. Mr Miller, why, today, 1% of the population owns more than 50% of the wealth? Explain to me why multinationals such as Caterpillar act as they do today? On the other hand, I accuse you of having a position, by its very nature, totally unwise. Your leitmotiv is to say that it is necessary to sign this treaty and that it is not serious if it is to have unfortunate consequences, that we will come back to it later. But once this agreement is signed, Mr. Miller, it will be too late.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u75	Of course!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u76	The PS protested against your position. On the other hand, he is very proud of the position adopted by the Parliament of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and of its veto, which I ask you, Mr Minister, to relay without any ambiguity. [[Disputes on MR benches]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u77	I understand that you're a little upset about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u78	Mrs Grovonius, I invite you to ask your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u79	Mr Minister, what position will you defend on behalf of Belgium at the next European Council, following this vote in the Parliament of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation? What consequences will the Belgian position have in the follow-up to the CETA procedure and what will be the consequences for the TTIP negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u80	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, CETA is a harbinger of the TTIP debate that we will be holding. This is, we must acknowledge, a heavy political and ideologically charged debate. The observation made by my fellow MEPs on the PS, Green and myself, is that neoliberal globalisation, in which total free trade plays an important role, leads to very serious problems. It is not by chance that people throughout Europe feel that this neoliberal globalisation... The impact on our society and the growing inequality to which my colleague referred is correct, but there is also today a joint press release of the three liberal mutualities, which states that it is not possible for the mutualities in Belgium to compete with private institutions. The trade unions point out that multinationals already have far too much power. Colleagues, do you remember the shuffling software, the impact of Volkswagen and other major multinationals on regulation? CETA and TTIP are going to give more power to the multinationals. There will be a regulatory body in which multinationals will be represented and in which each Member State signing TTIP or CETA will have to submit its own regulations to those multinationals for approval. If these multinationals do not get what they want, they will be able to go to a separate court. Not to defend itself against expropriation, as Mr De Gucht says. It is quite obvious that this cannot be done. We have sufficient confidence in the American and European legal systems to know that this kind of thing is a thing of the past, but they will be able to attack regulations they do not like. There have been examples. I am thinking of a French example: Veolia attacked Egypt because Egypt dared to provide a minimum wage for its workers. That minimum wage would affect the company's profits. That's where you want to go, the right-wing majority. Thus progressive Flanders, progressive Belgium, does not agree at all. I call on the Brussels and Walloon Governments to stay firm. I am glad to be on the side of Guy Vanhengel, Mr Vandenput.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u81	Minister, we will not have time today to repeat the whole debate on CETA and TTIP. We have again had confirmation today that the friends of the multinationals are defending these treaties; that is not surprising. There is also growing citizen opposition to these treaties. As we have seen in the Caterpillar case, there are concerns. Caterpillar trade unionists themselves tell us to reject this treaty, because it will give even more arguments to multinationals to conduct tomorrow policies like Caterpillar's. We know all that. These are not interpretative declarations that fundamentally change things. I quote Greenpeace's official according to which "these interpretative declarations have as much legal value as a holiday catalogue". I am concerned about some recent events, minister. I hear that the European Union, and in particular the European Commission, is putting pressure on Wallonia to accept CETA. I'm asking you the question. What about it? I read in the press that David Lametti, the Canadian Deputy Minister of Trade, warns Wallonia and the Walloon Parliament. He said to them: "We are friends, let us continue to work together. If you refuse this text, there will be consequences." Is this kind of threat acceptable? Is this normal in a democratic game? Finally, what consequences will the position of the federated entities which oppose CETA or reject it on the position of Belgium and that of the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u82	Mrs Claerhout, Mr Vandenput, first and foremost the Federal Government supports CETA. That's done and clear. Among the two previous governments in 2009 and 2011 there was a new regime for investments with a specific mandate. We believe that this agreement is not only in line with the mandate, it is even going further in a better direction. For example, as far as investment is concerned, there are real judges appointed by the two parties, not by the multinationals as I have heard. Those judges are public, and that's really new. CETA is a very good thing. I think it's the best guarantee that we don't have a bad deal anymore. We are going further with social standards, with environmental standards and with possible arrangements for investment than in all other agreements. So it's the best guarantee not to have a bad TTIP. It certainly is. As far as the situation in other countries is concerned, there is incredible support from the French Government. They shall request the entry into force of this Agreement as soon as possible. The same applies to the Italian Government. In Germany there were some discussions and now there is real support from the SPD, for example. At European level, therefore, it is not only your party, Mrs Claerhout, or not only your party, Mr Vandenput, but also the socialist party that is in favour of CETA. Now my Socialist colleagues ask me how it is possible for us to see such a thing in Belgium. That's done and clear. I am one of the six foreign ministers of the six founding countries of the European Union. I am meeting with my five Socialist colleagues and they are all in favour of CETA. I am the Liberal who has to say that in Belgium we have a problem with different Länder. I am very simply replying to Mr Hellings and Mrs Grovonius: I will probably see on Monday what position Belgium will adopt because I respect the procedures. On Monday, a dialogue with the various Governments will take place. As you know, the responsibility to sign is in the hands of governments. Parliaments obviously have the right to vote on resolutions, to influence the course of events, but the choice to decide, to sign or not, belongs to the executive. We must not hide behind his responsibilities, behind a screen. It is the executive that signs, the parliaments, then ratifies or not. Here, of course, we prefer not to take this responsibility! We'll see... In substance, Canada is the country, outside the European Union, closest to us, with respect to all the standards you refer to. When I say the closest to us, I do not even say the closest to the European Union. There are countries in the European Union that protect their public services less well than Canada does. There are countries in the European Union that have less favourable social and environmental standards than Canada does. In this context, that those who will consider refusing to sign this agreement realize that they will place us in a situation of complete isolation in Europe. We can scream here but we are alone in Europe, on the subject, in the face of this approach of some regional and Community parliaments. If we don't sign with Canada, who else will it be possible to sign with? When we have to negotiate with Britain that will be out of the European Union, what can we accept if we do not accept Canada? Vietnam has been negotiated; we will have to sign. Do you think it is better to go to the Vietnamese courts, if we have a Belgian company's conflict in Vietnam or go to a court whose public judges are appointed by the European Union and Vietnam on both sides? And then – I know that this week, many have been very sensitive to this situation – we are trying to conclude with Tunisia. We will be able to sign an agreement with her according to the social and environmental standards practiced in the country. I repeat, if we don't conclude with Canada, I don't know who we can still do it with. CETA is the best trade agreement the European Union has ever concluded since it concluded agreements. I regret that, for reasons I think little related to the very nature of CETA, several Belgian political parties have changed their minds.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u83	Minister, there is indeed an evolution between a court of business lawyers who meet with each other and who are appointed by the companies and the ICS, which allows both parties to appoint permanent judges. However, the big difference between this system specifically designed for multinationals and ordinary justice is that multinationals can sue States, not the other way round. Ad hoc justice for businesses is simply not our vision of democracy. Deputy Prime Minister, you say that Canada is the country closest to us in terms of social and environmental standards. That is true, but it is also the country closest geographically to the United States. For this reason, U.S. multinationals will be able to use Canadian courts to bring trials to European states. Clearly, two schools coexist at Open Vld: the Vandenput School, pro-free trade, and the Vanhengel School in Brussels, which seems closer to the interests of the citizens. I'm more of that last school. Mr Juncker said: "If the CETA is called into question, European trade policy will have to be thoroughly reviewed." Let us seize this ball as a leap forward and, indeed, let us fundamentally review European policy in this area!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u84	In fact, Minister, I wonder what a mandate of the Belgian Government still means when parties who initially supported the agreement, which also complies with this mandate and even goes further on a number of points, no longer support it, even if they are on the opposition banks. For our credibility, this is very undermining. In this case, federal opposition seems to be more important than creating growth and economic opportunities for our country. This is irresponsible in the current climate. It is one thing to listen to and take into account the comments and concerns expressed by organisations, associations and society. The necessary reforms must have the necessary implications for European trade policy. It is another matter to take advantage of this and to disseminate disinformation in order to undermine European trade policy. Failure to obtain a mandate to sign CETA is more than a dent in our credibility. This is also about the future of the European Union and European trade policy. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u85	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I find it quite appalling in this dossier, ladies and gentlemen, that so-called pro-European parties show their total distrust of the European Parliament and the European Commission. I've learned something, too. I fell off my chair just now when I heard that progressive Belgium is actually very conservative, Mr Van der Maelen. I didn't know you could do this, but you just explained this to me. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude with what Mrs Kitir said here two hours ago. It has rightly referred to what is above: "Understanding makes power', "L'L'L'union fait la force'. I note that the Socialists are using this dossier today as they see fit and as a reproach to our Prime Minister. However, they do not use this dossier in a European context. Congratulations, Socialists, but we look forward. We look forward to signing this agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u86	Minister, thank you for your answer. I say it and I say it again: we Socialists will not play this game of fools. We ask the Commission, as well as your federal government, to step down from its ivory tower and finally to incorporate all the reticences we have heard for months; the reluctance of the population, civil society, mutual societies, trade unions and farmers to face this roll of neoliberalism on our socio-economic fabric and our model of life, of which we know they will be the main victims of this treaty. Mr Minister, it is time to abandon these competitive logics at all costs and to mobilize all our energies to put in place policies that really aim at the happiness of the people and not the profit of a few. The citizens today, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, have great distrust of politics. They feel that politics are at the boot of multinationals. Today we have a unique opportunity to prove the opposite. I hope, minister, that your government will have the courage to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u87	Minister, you were wondering whether I would like to take it upon myself to conclude international agreements with Flemish socialists. The answer to this is yes, on one condition, in particular that they serve the general interest, not the interest of multinationals. For 30 years, it has been chosen to serve the interests of multinationals. We have seen that this has led to enormous power and influence on our states. I referred to Volkswagen, but I could refer to many others. It is they who determine what our society looks like. People won't stand for that anymore. People see the growing inequality and the erosion of the welfare and welfare state. We will therefore oppose these agreements, Minister. They are not just trade agreements, with a slight change in import duties. No, these are other chords. CETA is the first treaty to work with so-called negative lists. In other words, everything that is not in the agreement falls within the scope of the agreement. I'll take the health minister as my witness. I asked her a year and a half ago if there was any danger to our Belgian social protection system. The Minister replied that we will indeed have to be very careful.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u88	You must close up, Mr Van der Maelen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u89	Yes, we are internationalists, Minister. Yes, we want to conclude agreements, but it is time for the European Union and the right-wing parties to recognise that this is not possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u90	Now you have to stop.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u91	One cannot undermine the protection of the common man in order to give it to wealthy multinationals. That's not gonna happen to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to call on everyone not to exceed the time limit too much.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u93	Mr President, Minister, I want to reassure you. At the PTB, there has never been a change of opinion on these treaties. I note that the whole process of negotiations on CETA has been carried out in secret. This has also served as a lesson for TTIP. This, always with the argument that at the time of decision, democracy can play and that everyone will have a say. Now, what do we see today? As entities express reservations about these treaties, every possible and conceivable pressure is exerted on them to change their minds. Minister, you're comparing the European Union to Canada, saying that, basically, it's not that different and we're close enough. But this is not about opposing Canada and the European Union. The real opposition in these treaties is between multinationals and both European and Canadian populations. This is the real opposition. And if there is indeed a movement against CETA and TTIP, it comes from citizen mobilization. These treatises are like "vampires"; they are afraid of light. Unfortunately for multinationals, they have suffered this light and today the opposition is growing. I feel your embarrassment and embarrassment, minister. Yes, minister, it seems to me that there is a little embarrassment; the evidence is that you have not answered the question of what happens if a government, a federated entity for example, rejects this treaty. What will happen? You did not answer that question which, in my opinion, was the question of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u94	Minister, a major funeral ceremony on Saturday 8 October in Sana'a, Yemen, was hit hard by a devastating aerial attack. More than 145 people were killed and, according to the United Nations, at least 525 were injured. Incendiary and fragmentation bombs were reportedly used by the Saudi regime-led coalition. This is potentially a war crime. Yemen, in a situation of total humanitarian crisis, does not have the capacity to treat as many wounded people, some of whom are seriously burned. Russia has received more than 50 wounded in Moscow in recent days. Yemen calls on Europeans to help. According to my information, some countries, including Italy, could temporarily accommodate injured people. Mr Minister, is Belgium capable of making a strong humanitarian gesture by caring for a dozen injured people at home, including those who have been burned? Does she have the will?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u95	Mr President, Mr Carcaci, it is a bit the same kind of problem as when you intervene by sending teams away. In the case you are referring to, Belgium has condemned the attack and hopes that clarity can be made because there will be consequences in terms of responsibilities, including when it comes to war crimes or crimes against humanity. Belgium is already involved in Yemen through international organizations. Development cooperation funds specific operations and Defence has the capacity to treat large burns. She's done it before. Last year again, in Neder-over-Heembeek, we welcomed eight people following a particularly dramatic fire in Bucharest. But for the time being, there is no such demand for us from Yemen. I can understand the desire to move forward in this direction, and I am in favour of it if a request is to be made. I have questioned the Minister of Defence, he will examine the conditions under which we could accommodate large burns if the request is made by the Yemeni authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u96	I thank the minister for his response. I will certainly bring the message to the level of local officials so that intervention can be made through the organisations in place within the framework of cooperation and others. Nor will I fail to follow up on this issue, because there is also a very serious humanitarian situation there. But we have to go very fast. The situation demands it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u97	Mr President, Minister, this week we were able to read in the press that the spokesman of the Federal Prosecutor's Office confirmed a change in the strategy of Daesh, a change undoubtedly linked to a weakening of its bases in Syria and which is manifested in the Islamic State's desire to recruit no longer there but here, among young people, mainly among minors, and to provide any recruits with the means to carry out the mass attacks they would be able to carry out. The fact is not new, but it seems that it has become a priority of Daesh, which gives rise to our concern. In any case, in my view, this is a demonstration of the efforts we must make to improve the integration of the population in our territory. Since the attacks on 13 November in Paris and 22 March in Brussels, we know that this war is being waged against enemies inside and not just outside. Our surveillance and control services are therefore vital. Minister, what is the basis for the analysis that was developed by the prosecutor's spokesman? How many minors were involved and, where appropriate, prosecuted for terrorist threats in 2015 and 2016? Are there typical profiles of these minors? What specific vigilance measures are being taken within intelligence agencies to combat this strategy? Will the new Specific Research Methods (SRMs) be a response to the latter? Knowing the global challenge and the new "distance" indoctrination strategy, what measures are being taken to control the Internet and social networks and, in particular, encrypted messaging such as Telegram?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u98	Mr President, Mr Pivin, since 2012, 15 minors have taken the road from the Syria-Iraq area, without being accompanied by a relative, in order to join a terrorist group. Eleven of these 15 individuals, 13 boys and 2 girls, are still there. Three are said to have died there. In September 2016, several of these individuals who had reached their 18th birthday since their departure, there were three unaccompanied minors, two boys and one girl. In the meantime, four individuals who had not been accompanied before their majority had returned to Belgium. As of 20 September, on the basis of the criteria used by the OCAM, 12 minors were considered to be candidates at the outset. In the case of accompanied minors, children were taken to the area by their parents or even born there. In March 2016, the last OCAM list in this category identified 35 accompanied minors, but the actual number could rise to 80. The numbers of births on the spot are impossible to establish accurately, as you imagine. In addition to the lack of information available, these are sometimes children born to a Belgian father but whose mother has another nationality. In general, I can say that the hierarchy of the Islamic State attaches particular importance to the children present in the territory, through a teaching that focuses mainly on learning the Qur'an, the history of Islam and physical education, which includes shooting, swimming and fighting classes. Daesh seeks to prepare a new generation conditioned and ready to serve. I come to the sympathising miners of Daesh in Belgium. Based on OCAM figures, since 2012, 18 minors have been intercepted while on their way to the combat zone or when their preparations were well advanced. Several recent investigations in Belgium and France have led to the arrest and sometimes the placement of minors, girls and boys, who were discussing on social networks the possibility of carrying out attacks in places close to their homes. Propaganda specific to minors was developed by Daesh. It encourages them, rather than joining conflict zones, to commit acts against the infidels in their country of origin. Both the security services and the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office take the situation of minors very seriously. OCAM recently conducted an analysis of the problem of minors recruited by or sympathising with Daesh. Mr President, I still wanted to pay tribute to the quality of the work of our services. The answer was important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u99	Yes, but the rules must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u100	Minister, thank you for this answer, which was important and precise. We must provide two answers to this problem. Daech wants to teach on the spot a particular type of teaching. We must respond with a teaching that places respect for our values in our schools. We must also be at your side so that measures are taken to ensure that companies active on the net manage to limit, if not prevent, remote indoctrination of jihadism and terrorism. Anyway, at MR, we're at your side.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u101	Mr President, Minister, I was shocked to read this morning that plastic surgeons do not intend to implement the agreements concluded with RIZIV and the sickness funds. In other words, surgeons will continue to ask for supplements of EUR 4 000 and more for women coming from a severe illness period, with a life-threatening disease that has a severe psychological impact. That's appalling. As early as 2009, Marleen Temmerman addressed the issue to the then minister. Since then, we, women's associations and other parties, have continued to take action and ask questions. In 2013 a game was put aside at the RIZIV to solve this problem. In February we gave you another cake to deal with the problem again. In July it was finally there, there was an agreement. That led to a sigh of relief in the patients. But now the surgeons don't want to do that, I understand. In fact, they are threatening to stop carrying out these interventions. That's appalling! Do you realize what this means, ladies and gentlemen, that doctors refuse to carry out these interventions? That's appalling, that's outrageous, I can't get to that at all. Even the Doctor's Syndicate has condemned it and finds it scandalous. You say, Madam Secretary, that you still want to be patient until the end of the month and then intervene. I love this personally. The culture of gray is clearly gaining from humanity here; people want to give money to patients. Madam Secretary, I think you should intervene. Will you intervene? If so, how and when?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u102	Mr President, Madam Minister, here I am again, although I was hoping that I would not have to answer this question anymore. After all, in July the agreement on breast reconstructions was concluded between the medical syndicates and the RIZIV. The medical syndicates represent the doctors anyway, so I was convinced that we were once and for all off this subject. It is a good agreement, both politically and financially. The surgeons aren't going backwards and, especially, the patients are getting much better. This was ultimately the intention of all of us when we began to tackle this problem. Even though I've been trying to do that for a year and a half, I'm going to nuance the story again today. Apparently a number of bottlenecks have emerged in connection with this agreement, and according to the surgeons they are of a technical or financial nature. Apparently there has been some uncertainty about one of the paragraphs, about the distribution between single and double rooms, which should be done in a 60/40 ratio. For the surgeons, it is unclear what happens if they have reached a limit of patients in a single room by October. Does that mean that they have to send away the patients who ask for a single room from then on? Or should they bring these patients back next year? Moreover, there is uncertainty as to why the procedure should take place in a recognized breast centre, as the expertise is not in the hands of the plastic surgeons but of the gynecologists and general surgeons who operate the original tumor. It is perfectly possible for a patient to have surgery for her cancer in an approved breast center, but in a second phase, he goes to a plastic surgeon who may not be connected to a center. Can you explain this further? A third problem is apparently still the capping of the pay supplements. This seems to remain sensitive, because plastic surgeons fear that this could be considered a precedent for other specialists. Honestly, I do not really follow my fellow Members there anymore. Madam Minister, is it an option to work on some of these conditions if necessary, in order to speed up the signing of the agreement? You say in the media today that you will take action. What can you do in this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u103	Mr President, Mrs Jiroflée, Mrs Capoen, once again, a reconstruction with its own breast tissue for women who had to have an amputation after breast cancer or because they have a higher risk of breast cancer is no luxury. It is also not an aesthetic surgery, but merely the restoration of the body in its original state, as far as possible. I think every woman is entitled to that. It's also a matter of respect for the patient. We have given the consultation between RIZIV, the sickness funds and the representative medical syndicates over a year the chance to result in an agreement. I understand, of course, that this is a technically difficult procedure on the contrary to which a proper wage must stand. However, there are other difficult procedures, such as eye surgery, neurosurgery or Whipple surgery in pancreatic tumour, and these procedures are also fairly rewarded. We don't hear those people complaining. In short, I have given maximum support to the consultation between the RIZIV, the sickness funds and the representatives of the doctors. A budget of about 2.5 million has also been made available to increase wages. The fees have been increased to almost 3 000 euros for the reconstruction of one breast and to more than 4 500 euros for the reconstruction of two breasts. A fee supplement of 100 % is still possible for a single room. So calculate the reward for that. The aesthetic supplements are forbidden, which was indeed included in the agreement, but now I hear that some plastic surgeons think that this arrangement is insufficient. In any case, we hear that the convention is already being dealt with here and there in hospitals and that people are prepared to go into it. There are always a few who tie the bell to the cat and make the patient the victim. We are now three months away and received the message from a single hospital that has already delivered a formally signed copy to the RIZIV. I do not think that is enough and I call for this to be settled by the end of the month. There must be a regional distribution so that every woman in the vicinity can be helped. So I can no longer allow women to be the victims of this situation. A meeting was planned between my cabinet and the aesthetic surgeons because we had heard quite a few echoes. The meeting will take place next week, and I will certainly mention the bottlenecks that you have raised here and which are of a more technical nature. So I'm waiting two more weeks, and I hope hospitals will let me know that the convention is on its way. If this results effectively in insufficient results, then I will be obliged to work out a scheme that will guarantee that every woman can receive this treatment without having to pay the high pay supplements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u104	Madam Secretary, we are clearly in agreement on the substance of the matter. What I'm asking you to do now is show me which side you're on. Don't wait any longer, cancer won't wait.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u105	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The N-VA Group fully supports you in this dossier. I believe that the agreement is still not dead, but the problem needs to be solved now. I also ask the surgeons to show reasonableness in this dossier. However, perhaps in the future we should also be careful to keep the nomenclature discussions pure, without too many framework conditions which make the problem more difficult and the solution less transparent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u106	Minister, I hope that we will have more answers from you than from the Prime Minister, in any case with regard to the anticipated savings in health care. I remember that one in Le Soir just a month ago (September 13): "Maggie From Block to Bart De Wever: 'No Health Care'. " And this: "Minister Open Vld of Social Affairs is a green response to the proposals of N-VA leader Bart De Wever"... who left us, who is no longer there. Madam Minister, contrary to what you said a month ago, the press says that the next budget cut provides for serious savings in health care. If that's true, why this change? You said, a short time ago, that if we push further into the savings, it will be on the backs of the patients. Will that be the case? We are talking about 900 million euros; can you say more? There are 700 million coming from the government agreement and 200 million more... What is the amount of efforts to be made on health care in the budget effort of 4 billion? What will be the measures? We are talking about more expensive medicines: what increase and how much? In particular, we are talking about antibiotics. There are antibiotics that can be harmful if they are misprescribed. But, I guess your reasoning is not to say that, as there are antibiotics that are bad in some cases, we will reduce the refund to improve the medical problem. I mean, I'm going to the kiwi model. If there are savings to be made in health care, should it always be, as this government systematically realizes, on the backs of patients? Is this not an opportunity to set up a kiwi model, that is to say, a tender that puts the various multinationals of the medicine in competition to offer and to refund the best medicine, at the best price.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u107	Mr Van Hees, on the basis of INAMI's technical estimates in September 2016, it was already clear that an effort of EUR 665 million would be needed to keep the health care budget on track. Moreover, it was clear from the beginning of the legislature that it would be necessary to provide an additional effort of at least 53 million euros in 2016. In the budget conclave, we have taken further steps, but they are not yet finalized, as the Prime Minister told us. Without wishing to anticipate the outcome of the conclave, I can already tell you that I will ensure that the patient is spared as much as possible when providing these efforts in the health care sector. I will try to implement my fiscal year rigorously through reforms but also by speeding up our reforms and eliminating waste. As far as the pharmaceutical sector is concerned, I will ask it to contribute to the exercise of savings. I have concluded a pact for the future with this sector, in which the emphasis is on accessibility and respect for the budgetary framework. The pharmaceutical sector will make great efforts to respect its budget path. As far as the kiwi model is concerned, I have been here since 1999 and we talked about the big kiwi with Mr. Demotte, the little kiwi, the kiwi light. Then there was a dead kiwi. I would like to start all these discussions again, but this model does not give the opportunity of innovation to the patient, while innovation is important to me. This model comes from New Zealand but we are not in New Zealand, we are in a European market. I'd like to start all these debates again, but the kiwi remains dead for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u108	At least, Madam Minister, you have the quality of the franchise: "The kiwi remains dead". In this case, I do not know how to interpret your statement that the pharmaceutical sector will make a significant contribution. Indeed, if there is one way to make it contribute, it is with a kiwi model. There was the big kiwi, the little one, the light and, now, the dead one. You want him to stay. I'll take note of that. On the other hand, you are as imprecise as the Prime Minister about the cost of spending on patients. You add in a formula that would be tasty if it were not unhappy for them: "We will spare them as much as possible". But you're not going to develop a kiwi model to make multinationals pay. I conclude that the patient will be the great victim of this budgetary effort, once again, despite your comments and those of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u109	Mr President, Madam Minister, I want to say "alleluia, alleluia, alleluia"! An intrabelge agreement has finally been reached on climate objectives but I feel like I'm in boulevard theatre, a certain Feydeau played in three acts. Act 1: the plot. December 2015, in a band and before the Paris Conference, we announced the signing of a major agreement. Ten months later, we can finally see the end of the tunnel. In the meantime, fortunately, Flanders has not been found feet in the water because it was the end of this climate BHV. Act 2: the big joke. Indeed, the three Regions are meeting, concluding an agreement, while you are not at the negotiating table. Moreover, the press seized the subject and said that there was a constructive atmosphere between the protagonists. Madam Minister, what were you doing during that time? How did you contribute to the finalization of this agreement? Act 3: Chaotic epilogue. In fact, in December 2015, the minister announced the signing of this agreement in a loud and clear manner and in a band. It is said that 300 million euros sleep deeply on a blocked account at bpost and, during that time, the Regions are eagerly waiting for the 210 million euros due to them to carry out positive and innovative environmental policies. Like Feydeau, the minister, my questions will be one of those. They'll be three. Firstly, do you confirm the agreement reached between the three regions? Do you confirm that you were in the final picture of this agreement? Secondly, is it correct that the EUR 210 million to be paid to the regions will be paid without delay, as you repeated last July? I repeat, "without delay." Do you write well without S-A-N-S?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u110	C-E-N-T.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u111	Finally, will the impact of this $210 million payment on the federal budget be measurable? In other words, and according to European requirements, is the bpost account consolidated in entity 1? This has an undeniable impact on fiscal trajectories. Thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u112	Mr President, I do not have the talent of our colleague Mr Senesael. I'm going to do it in a very sober way, as usual. Minister, you are coming out of an unglorious episode. I was able to read your regional colleagues' comments on how the negotiations were not conducted. Even after the agreement, Mr Tommelein again intervened in the media to say what he thought about your role in this agreement. But I'd say, it doesn't matter. What matters, and that's my question, is what lessons you learn from this burden sharing 2020 process for the future. Because beyond the fact that we must rejoice that there is finally an agreement, which you have had in December, which is reflected in a text and which is now going to pass in the various governments, in the conciliation committee and in the parliaments, beyond, we must already think about the future and, in particular, the challenges 2030-2050. Minister, my only question is: What lessons do you learn from this unglorious episode to improve the process for future episodes? Much more important issues are before us. What has been translated into the text is almost riquiquis compared to the stakes of 80 and 90% CO2 reduction by 2050. I therefore hope that you will learn good lessons from the episode which has just ended and which has been beautifully represented here by our colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u113	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr. Senesael and Nollet for their talent; a hidden talent with respect to Mr. Senesael and Mr. Nollet, in a sobriety exercise that is not usual to him. That said, the agreement reached on the last point, which concerned only the Regions, had to be resolved by them. They did. Where was I at that time – since you represent this as a piece of Feydeau? I was behind the scenes, of course. Why? Because I had been proposing three options for several weeks and Wallonia and Flanders opted for the second and came to tell me. In order to reach a cooperation agreement, the federal government must agree with the regions. What was that specific point? As I have already said several times, it was the possibility for one of the regions to sell its statistics if it has made efforts that exceed its objectives to the other Region, in this case Flanders, which may not reach its statistics by 2020. Thus, this point was decided (option 2) and included in the cooperation agreement. I hope that it will be signed tomorrow by all the ministers concerned, that it will go before each government and then before the concertation committee. To answer your question, this will lead to the release of funds, once each entity has created the niche to receive these specific funds, all of which are, at both the federal and regional levels, outside the budgets. Payments from Europe are intended for specific policies and not for all federal and regional budget expenditure. It is therefore important for everyone to have the opportunity to designate in their budget – which is done by parliaments – the place where these policies will take place. Most of the time, it is done through funds created so that it can be received. In order to go further, in the case of such funds, the Brussels Region expressly requests, from the beginning – this is reflected in the account of our exchanges – to receive the amount devolved to it in four times from January 2017 until 2020 so that the revenue it receives over this limited scope of a fund is, each year, equal to the expenditure, in order to avoid being recorded in the ESA standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u114	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Having said that, I would like to be Feydeau's blower by asking you, Minister, to be more proactive and not to drown the fish in your answers. You need to keep your promises and commitments. You said in December, and confirmed in July, that the funds would be disbursed without delay. The Regions have taken steps to host these funds and have on their agenda innovative, creative and active policies to be pursued on the ground. Please, Madam Minister, make sure that these funds are released as soon as possible! It is about the well-being and future of our climate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u115	Mr President, I do not wish to create an incident, but it must be noted that the minister replied to Mr Senesael about the funds, but not about the foresight.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u116	The minister's response went unnoticed!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u117	It is true that the minister did not answer that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u118	Or, Mr Cheron, Mrs Marghem has already announced her future role in the foresight: behind the scenes!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u119	Minister, we escaped well on Wednesday, October 5th in Zaventem. This was a rare but very serious incident, since at 8:41 p.m., according to the information confirmed since then, a take-off aircraft almost telescopeed another landing aircraft. This air disaster avoided within nine seconds is due to a human error. A plane that didn't wait for the "Go!" From the control tower to take off, this can happen... The other cause is the faulty use of Runway 01. It is known that it is dangerous, because it is short and is not equipped electronically in a suitable way and then, above all, because it crosses the other tracks. It can only be used when the wind dictates it. At that time, however, wind surveys were unanimous in indicating that the wind did not require the use of the runway in question. There were between 4 and 6 knots of east wind (sixty degrees). It is therefore runway 07 or possibly, in case of a gust, the 25 which should have been used. However, the 01 was used in contravention of the government's instructions, the law and the AIPs (aeronautical information publications). It's extremely serious. The danger is real and the disaster has been averted. Minister, I hear you have requested an audit from DGTA. It's a confession. You thus acknowledge that it cannot fulfil its legal role, which is to know in real time and on a permanent basis the way in which Belgocontrol works. This is the admission that your administration does not have the real-time wind component information that justifies the use of runways. What I am asking you, minister, of course, is to make all the clarity on this matter and to ensure that, finally, the law and the court decisions are respected and that the use of this or others is stopped. The administration of Belgocontrol must remain under your control and apply the rules imposed on it. In this way, the tranquillity, quality of life and safety of the residents will be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u120	Minister, it is clear that what has happened is truly alarming. This incident should never have happened. No operational or meteorological constraints imposed the use of airstrip 01. Again, the choice of tracks operated by Belgocontrol must be strongly condemned. The flagrant non-compliance with the prescriptions of the Court of Appeal of 17 March 2005 must be punished. You must take your responsibilities, Mr Minister, and especially on such an important issue, when passenger safety is at stake, but also when it comes to all the residents of Brussels-National. I hope you are aware of this: the excessive use, and in this case abuse, of Runway 01 is directly related to the intensive overflight of the Brussels Region. This case, I remind you, has been at a standstill since you took office. You asked for an audit. We look forward to the outcome. I can only ask you to confirm absolutely the principle of non-surfing densely populated areas. Every day, more than a million people are affected by the overflights. I could have invited you to my neighborhood last night. You would have understood that this is absolutely unbearable. The establishment of an independent control body is also absolutely necessary; no-flight aircraft continue to take off at night. Noise levels are not monitored or respected. Wind standards are almost systematically violated. And you are also simply being asked to comply with Gosuin's decree. The legal system is already in place, so why not use and enforce it? My questions are as follows, minister. Are you going, thanks to this audit, but also in general, to make all the transparency with regard to the decisions taken by Belgocontrol on the choice of paths? When an independent oversight body is in place, what will happen? Are you finally going – this should have been done for many years – to set up organised air traffic management in compliance with the applicable legal standards?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u121	Thank you, colleagues. First of all, I would like to point out that the air sector is highly regulated by international standards. Secondly, in the event of an air incident, those who witness it must automatically transmit their observations to a Belgian body called the BSA, the Belgian Surveillance Authority, which, on the basis of the elements given to it, compares the incident found or recorded with the ICAO classification, which is the international body. As a result of this review, the BSA classified Wednesday's incident as serious. When an incident is classified as "serious", the information is transmitted to the independent incident and accident investigation authority established by the Royal Decree of 8 December 1998. This cell, which has been seized, operates independently and communicates to all the authorities of the countries of origin pilots and aircraft, whether there has been an incident involving aircraft from those countries or pilots from those countries. In this case, these contacts have been made and the authorities in these countries have indicated that they will cooperate. The investigation is under way. Mr Dallemagne, you say, "I know it's a captain who's wrong." I don't know what you have. I leave it to the authority which has a relatively broad investigative power and which, at the end of its work, will submit a report to the Mobility FPS as well as to the relevant actors of the company or country of origin. Let's wait for this report. And, of course, recommendations will then be made. I would also like to say that before I was informed of the incident, on the basis of various elements that I had at my disposal and hearing what the residents told me when in the months preceding the incident, I requested that an audit be carried out by DGTA, on the basis of all the data, on the choice of routes operated between 3 and 10 October. When we have the audit, we will verify that the selection of runways resulting from the SRPs, therefore from previous decisions, has been made in accordance with the requirements and obligations, knowing that runways 25L and 25R are the preferred runways and that only in the event of strong wind and strong north-east wind change can other runways be selected. So I'm sticking to the frame. It is up to me, as a minister, to check that the control is being carried out properly. I understand that if I go back a few months or years, it is rare for a minister to have asked for this type of audit. I decided to do so and ask DGTA to verify that all the rules are being complied with. If that were not the case, or if that was the case, I would draw the necessary conclusions. With regard to the rest of the Brussels overflight plan – as I explained to the various ministers and in committee – we did not stand still, Madam. I'm making significant progress. Once completed, this plan will be presented to all parties: the Regions, representatives of political parties, associations, the federal government, the mayors and all the authorities involved in the choice that must be made together, in full transparency and in consultation with all those who must intervene in the choices.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u122	Minister, you said this was a serious, serious incident. On the other hand, I find that your answer is not very serious. You're telling us you ordered an audit. You just have to enforce your administration, it has all the powers to know in real time, permanently, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year what Belgocontrol does, on what basis it decides, what use of track it operates. That's what you have to do. You should not request an audit over a week, you and your administration should know that at all times. Your administration is not respected, make it respect! In the Infrastructure Committee on June 15, 2016, you promised a clarification on the application of wind standards. It is mid-October and this clarification has not yet taken place! The evidence is that there's a discussion about wind standards. I mean, you say you're moving forward. But that's what we've been told since the beginning of the legislature! You say "I'm ahead," but I'd like you to land! The associations of residents of the airport said: "The MR had promised mountains and wonders during the election campaign and the current balance sheet of the MR in this file is a zero point!"
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u123	Minister, it has not been since the beginning of the legislature. This case has been broken for 15 years. But what scares me is non-compliance with the rules. Wind standards are not met. The flights are intense. Belgocontrol's just in his head. You're absolutely not being listened to. You have a responsibility. This body is master after God, it does what it wants. I can assure you that for everyone around me – you know where I live, I'm almost below the planes – this track 01 needs to be reviewed and corrected. It's intolerable. It's day and night, minister. Day and night, not even a minute apart, planes land. And then we understand what happens when 01 is used under completely unacceptable conditions: we risk accidents. This isn't the first time. There's already been an accident that didn't kill anyone. But it will happen one day, and then you bite your fingers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u124	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, it is getting colder. Winter is at the door, and we are setting the heat a few degrees higher at home and in this Parliament. We can afford that. I do not know whether we are sufficiently aware that in the meantime there are tens of thousands of homeless people who cannot do so and who have to stay under a cardboard box in the street. The Flemish Commissioner for Children's Rights recently pointed out that one in three home and homeless people is underage. In Flanders alone, 1 700 children are homeless or homeless. Rooflessness and homelessness and poverty are complex problems, on which we have to work from different policy areas, locally, the Communities and the federal government. Every year we organize a winter shelter for homeless people, usually from 1 November to 31 March. That is also the intention this year. We must learn from the past few years. Poverty organisations have informed me that many points can be improved. In this way, we see that more and more women are homeless and there must therefore be a suitable shelter for women. We see that there are problems with booking a place to stay overnight. Sometimes this can be done via a free number, but when one can only call from a night shop or a telephone shop because one does not have a mobile phone, it is not free. There are organisations that provide shelter, such as the Cornerstone in Brussels, where people literally work with a lottery ticket. Those who draw the right lottery ticket are lucky and caught and should not spend the night on the street. Those who do not draw a good ticket must spend the night on the street because there are not enough places. There should also be daytime care for families and vulnerable people. I also notice that there is extra funding for the big cities, but not for the center cities. My questions are as follows. What plans do you have and what budgets do you provide for in relation to the care of homeless people? Normally, it is 50 000 euros per city for the five major cities. Is there any money for the center cities? What do you learn from the practical problems I have listed and what will you do about them? How will you work with the Communities? After all, there is a cooperation agreement which provides for consultations to be held at least once a year. However, these consultations have not yet taken place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u125	Mr President, Mrs Lanjri, thank you for your question. As you know, in May 2014, the federal government and the authorities of the Communities and the Regions concluded a cooperation agreement on homelessness and homelessness. In this report, the signatory authorities underline that local authorities are primarily responsible for the care of homeless people. However, we do not shirk our responsibilities. Taking into account this cooperation agreement, the government agreement, the own policy notes and the third federal action plan, I can confirm that this federal government will continue to take the necessary measures to ensure the reception of homeless people during this winter period. In concrete terms, this means that the federal support for winter care is complementary to the policies of the regions and local authorities. Like last winter, I have again allocated EUR 50 000 to the five major cities. Brussels receives more than 1 million euros. Last year we also provided 300 additional shelters for the Brussels-Capital Region. We've provided additional capacity. That's all being taken care of now. Not every winter is the same. We ensure that crisis management is not required, because we are going for sustainable and stable solutions. That is why I have instructed my administration to look with the other actors concerned for a reform policy. Moreover, the administration is working with the various actors at least three times a year to exchange best practice in winter care so that the necessary improvements can be managed from the federal level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u126	Madam Secretary of State, that there are tens of thousands of homeless people, a country like ours, a welfare state, is unworthy. The fact that one in three are children is a disgrace to our society. Madam Secretary of State, I am counting on you to ensure a vigorous policy and to tackle the problem of homelessness, naturally in consultation with the Communities and the Regions. Do not create more shelters, but make sure that there are fewer homeless people. As long as there are homeless people, we must provide shelter. Make sure no one, and certainly no children, has to spend the night on the streets in the cold.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u127	That brings us to the end of the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u128	Following an incident in the plenary session of 15 September 2016 and in view of the absence of provisions in the Rules of Procedure allowing action to be taken against misplaced statements, the Conference of Presidents of Wednesday 12 October 2016 agreed to submit the following request to the Federal Deontological Commission: Following the incident in plenary session on 15 September 2016 and the lack of provisions in the Rules of the Chamber for the suppression of displaced statements, the Conference of Presidents on Wednesday, 12 October 2016 agreed on the following request to be submitted to the Federal Commission of Ethics: 1. Can the Federal Deontological Commission submit to the Court a proposal for a phased sanction in response to misplaced, disrespectful, uncourteous or indecent statements made in the context of parliamentary debates (and whether or not recorded through sound recording), proposing some sanctions from lighter to harder ones? 1. Can the Commission of Ethics provide the House of Representatives with a proposal for a possible phased sanction in response to inappropriate, disrespectful, discourteous or indecent statements in parliamentary debates (and recorded or not), in which several sanctions options are created ranging from the lightest to the heaviest? 2. Are these sanctions best included in the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber or in the code of ethics for Members of Parliament? 2. Is it preferable to include these sanctions in the Rules of the House or in the Code of Ethics for Parliamentarians? In accordance with Article 4 (2), first paragraph, of the Act of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Deontological Commission, the request should be signed by at least 50 members of the Chamber of Representatives. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 4, § 2, of the Act of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Commission of Ethics, this request must be signed by at least 50 members of the House of Representatives. The request will be submitted to Members for signature through the political groups secretariats. This request will be submitted for signature by the members via the group secretariats. Ladies and gentlemen, I trust that we will vote unanimously in favour of this report. If there is no objection, this will be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u129	Following an informal meeting with Mr Delizée, Mr Van Quickenborne and myself with the management of Caterpillar, the Joint Committees for Business, Science Policy, Education, the National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Small Business and Agriculture and for Social Affairs will hold a hearing with Caterpillar's Executive Board on 25 October 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The combined commissions of Economy, Science Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture and Social Affairs will hold a hearing with the Caterpillar management on 25 October 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u130	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u131	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on the processing of passenger data, No. 2069/1. The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the Passenger Data Processing Bill, No. 2069/1. Ladies and gentlemen, we must take a stand on this question, but, as usual, there is a government's motivation first.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following on from paragraph 3 of the notification of the Council of Ministers of 29 April 2016, I would ask you to grant urgency in application of Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. That request is based on the following arguments. First, the Belgian NRP was one of eighteen measures, specifically measure 9, in the fight against terrorism, which the federal government announced in plenary session of the House on 19 November 2015. Since then, there has been Directive No. On behalf of the European Parliament and of the Council, That Directive provides that it is to be transposed by 25 May 2018. The transposition of the provisions of this Directive still requires several royal acts to be discussed by the Council of Ministers. There are also implementing acts to be submitted to the Privacy Commission, the Council of State and the regional governments, in application of Article 6 (4), third paragraph of the Special Law of 8 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions. For these reasons, it is time to transpose the Directive in its entirety, to get that done by 25 May 2018. Cooperation with the services concerned and international cooperation which form part of the abovementioned transposition of the Directive must be defined by means of different memoranda of understanding. The development of such protocols requires the development of a bill. It is clear that there is also a need to develop an ICT infrastructure which is not simple in itself and which still requires market surveys and public procurement. In order to be able to carry out these public contracts, a law is needed. Finally, since the sector is seeking clarity, rapid treatment of this framework law is essential for the start of discussions with the various sectors, with a view to taking the royal implementing orders. For all these reasons, I would ask the Chamber of Representatives to approve the urgency of this draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u133	Thank you, Minister. Mr Hellings, we cannot open a debate on an emergency request. Nor can there be an explanation of vote because we vote by sitting and lifted. I'm so sorry. I ask those who support the urgent request to stand up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u134	The Government also requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when it submitted the draft law amending the Law of 11 April 2003 on facilities for the decommissioning of nuclear power stations and for the management of nuclear fuel irradiated in those power stations and the Law of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market, No. 2070/1. The Government also called for urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill amending the Act of 11 April 2003 on provisions for the dismantling of nuclear power plants and the management of irradiated fissile material in such plants was tabled and the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organization of the electricity market, No. 2070/1. We will stand up and stand up, but I ask the Minister first for a statement of reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u135	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. First of all, it is a bill that imposes a distribution contribution, namely taxation on non-extended nuclear power plants such as Doel 3 and 4, and Tihange 2 and 3. Indeed, since 2008, the Belgian State has imposed such a distribution contribution. So far, this has been achieved on the basis of a regulation which was adopted each time for a specific year. For 2016, this is an ad hoc allocation contribution, based on electricity generation in 2015, whereas from 2017 to 2026, a permanent mechanism is foreseen for the calculation of the allocation contribution. The request for urgency, based on rule 51 of the Rules of the Chamber, is motivated by a twofold concern. On the one hand, the collection of the allocation contribution requires the bill to come into force in the year. Otherwise, this could have a negative impact on the state budget. On the other hand, you know that since it was published on 1 December 2015, the Belgian State has signed an agreement with the operator. The Act established its entry into force on 31 July. It was postponed by an amendment to 15 November. Therefore, it is important for us to start the work without disempowering.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u136	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u137	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 4 October 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration on 4 October 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 170/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Laurette Onkelinx and MM. Stéphane Crusnière and Sevastian Pirlot; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Jean-Jacques Flahaux. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 170/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mr Laurette Onkelinx and Mr Stéphane Crusnière and Mr Sébastian Pirlot; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put that motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u138	Mr. Chairman, this motion simply asks, if the government confirms its willingness to close military quarters, that a balanced geographical distribution be ensured between the three regions of our country and that there be proximity to the employment areas. This motion also calls, if the government confirms this desire to close military quarters, to ensure the full involvement of the social partners and the local authorities concerned. I recall that the closures of barracks have socio-economic consequences, particularly in terms of employment and well-being in relation to the working conditions of military and civilian personnel. Finally, this motion calls for Brussels to play its role as the Belgian and European capital by maintaining the Brussels settlements of our National Defence, such as those of the General Staff, the Hospital, the Royal School and the Royal Military Museum, and to take concrete initiatives to see a European headquarters established in Brussels. Since this is a constructive motion, I do not doubt for a moment that it will be rejected by the majority on the basis of a simple motion, with an extraordinary argument that decides to proceed to the next item on the agenda!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u139	Mr Flahaux has the floor for an explanation before the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u140	Mr President, allow me to speak because I was present when the Prime Minister responded to Mr Pirlot's inquiry. The first is operationality, the priority given to personnel for operational engagement; the second is outsourcing and rationalisation of functions without any military specificity; and the rationalization of military functions, in particular, without going against a balanced geographical distribution. The balanced distribution of both quantitative and qualitative capacities will be on the agenda. Finally, as far as the social aspect is concerned, it will be necessary to avoid unnecessarily moving workers and closing down to close, but to use the means rationally. It is the balance that is aimed at taking into account several parameters. The decisions will be made, the Prime Minister rightly insisted, without haste, because behind each of the decisions, the military and their families are involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u141	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u142	Yes 75 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-13-54-plenair-ip130x.u143	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 20 October 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 20 October 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 20 October 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 20 October 2016, at 2.15 p.m. The Annex is set out in a separate brochure number CRIV 54 PLEN 130 annex. The Annex is reproduced in a separate brochure, CRIV 54 PLEN 130 Annex.
