ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the oral questions with an interplay on B-FAST. Mrs. Grovonius, you have 10 minutes to develop your interplay.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u2	Mr Minister, I wanted to begin this inquiry with a kind of regret, because I have the feeling that you do not have much regard for this parliamentary assembly and that, in any case, on this important issue, there is a lack of transparency vis-à-vis parliamentarians and that there is no willingness to involve us in the reflection. An audit was conducted and issued on 23 November. Articles have been published in the press on this subject. As a result, some press groups were able to learn about the audit. The point was reached in the Council of Ministers on 18 December. On the other hand, we parliamentarians have no documents on our benches, no information to allow us to participate in a very concrete and constructive way in the discussion of this tool, which is B-FAST. It is a tool that has a lot of added value to bring in the help it can provide. He has proved himself on many occasions and he certainly deserves to take the time to think about not throwing the baby away with the bath water. Belgium has real expertise in this area. It is a multisectoral tool, where several departments can work together in a very concrete way. This tool must remain public. On some occasions, we have heard attempts to privatize B-FAST. We would like to reiterate very clearly that this tool must remain public. It must also be given every means to function, be it human resources, for which I want to highlight the importance of training staff for the specific actions that can be carried out in this context, material, logistical and budgetary resources. It also means giving it a real strategic vision with very clear priorities and objectives and regular evaluations. Finally, the last point I would like to stress is the importance of thinking about the establishment – I had already mentioned it at the time of the crisis in Nepal – of a European force in this framework, of an EU-FAST. I ask you in a very concrete way to explore this track and try to move forward. I turn now, beyond these general considerations and the elements you find in the motion, to the very specific questions I would like to ask you about B-FAST. What is your assessment of B-FAST's overall action over the past 15 years? When do you finally intend to officially communicate the audit findings to parliamentarians? Do you intend to join us in the reflection and engage with us in a debate on B-FAST? What lesson does the government intend to learn from this audit to improve the functioning of Belgian emergency aid in the future? Can these interventions be extended to other contexts such as, for example, the Ebola crisis that we have experienced? You are also announcing a reform of B-FAST. Can you tell us what direction you intend to give him? What will his budget be? How do you plan to potentially maintain the public and voluntary character of B-FAST? How do you intend to improve the functioning of B-FAST during both short and medium-term disasters? I insist that coordination be established at European level. Is this a model that you think is relevant? If so, how could you implement a structural and permanent intervention group of this type based on the Belgian model, i.e. a multi-sectoral, multidisciplinary model? How could you intervene with your European colleagues in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u3	Minister, I have some very simple questions for you which I would like to ask in response to my question in plenary. Will you forward the audit report on B-FAST to Parliament? If so, when can we expect that? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u4	Mr Minister, we have already had a number of occasions to talk about B-FAST in this committee and in plenary. You know my commitment to an effective rescue tool. You know my long-standing criticism of the functioning of B-FAST and the need to improve this indispensable instrument of international solidarity. Nepal's experience has shown how urgent and important it is to reform this system. You told us that an evaluation had been completed. You already announced it on December 9th. You presented it to the Council of Ministers and promised to pass it on to Parliament. We still haven't received it. This is not the first document we do not receive regarding B-FAST. I had indeed asked you on several occasions for the evaluation reports of the various missions. I have never received these evaluation reports. Yet you promised to pass them on to us to the commission. I've received two documents called non-papers, which means what it means. These are kind of lessons learned about Haiti and the Philippines. I insist, Minister, on receiving these mission reports, as you promised. I would have liked to hear from you about these different aspects because I think it is important that we have a discussion. It seems to me normal that Parliament should be informed of this emergency mechanism and that this discussion can take place on the basis of documents which should be public. B-FAST is indeed a public rescue instrument. Beyond that, I would like to know what are the axes towards which we are moving. Will it be a mechanism that will remain public? Which department will it depend on? What budgetary means will be allocated? Personally, I think it must be a professional tool to be truly effective. What will be the European articulation? Once again, I would like to see the reflection of parliamentarians based on documents that are at your disposal today and that you promised to transmit to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to begin my answer to the inquiry and questions by reiterating my gratitude and respect for all the volunteers who in the fifteen years of existence of our Belgian interdepartmental emergency humanitarian aid structures have done and continue to show remarkable professionalism and altruism. Each of these volunteers has thus been able to contribute to the recognition and positive international influence that our country has been able to establish in the European and United Nations fora. We all know that an organization, whatever its reason for its existence, must dare to question itself if it is to continue delivering the quality service for which it was designed. For B-FAST, this specialization is so far the humanitarian aid in its very first delicate stages. The mission in Nepal has confronted us with problems that I would call dual nature. On the one hand, we note, together with our European partners, that international coordination needs to be further improved to ensure that the conduct of a mission is not too compromised after its deployment. I had the opportunity to come back to this situation shortly after the return of the teams from Nepal. On the other hand, our own internal mechanisms in terms of capacity, decision-making and preparedness deserve to be further objectified and professionalized. At the plenary session of 10 December, I indicated that the overall evaluation of B-FAST is still ongoing. In order to prepare this evaluation well, several reports were ordered and requested. They provide a mix of internal, external, general and specific insights. Last year's audit report in the media is just one of the different documents. Without prejudging the future debate, I would like to stress that interdepartmental cooperation within B-FAST is fully supported. This commitment was recently confirmed by all partners around the table. B-FAST also remains relevant at international level, although its role in the field of humanitarian action needs to be adapted to the situation on the ground. It is precisely for this reason that some additional information sessions are planned this month, which will clarify this. Not only should we respond to the question of how we can improve our internal situation, but also to the question of who we should work with in order to make Belgian emergency aid more visible. Potential synergies with development cooperation and other domestic partners will be considered, but foreign actors will also be eligible. Closer cooperation with our neighbouring countries, as well as at European level, is needed to achieve economies of scale. The final analysis that will result will lead to a number of strategic choices. These choices will be translated into an action plan to improve B-FAST. The intention is to implement that action plan during the legislature. The end of the second part and a final report are expected by the end of the first trimester. I will therefore come back to Parliament, after the government has read the final outcome of the evaluation and the necessary amendments. Documents such as the audit and external reports will then also be made available to you. In the course of January, there will still be some coordination sessions. On 8 January, a meeting of the Coordination Council was held with three humanitarian actors: the Red Cross of the French Community, Rode Kruis-Vlaanderen, the DGCD's Emergency Humanitarian Aid Unit and the representative of the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA). We are trying to see how we can move forward with these different partners. An interview was held today with the officials of the Department of the Interior. On this occasion, emphasis was placed on the functioning of the Crisis Centre and on good practices that can be useful for the operation of B-FAST. Questions were asked about possible coordination at European level. Please be aware that on 20 January, a meeting with the European Commission's Operational Centre is planned, with the aim of identifying synergies at European level. Normally, at the beginning of February, at the annual meeting in Geneva of the steering group that brings together humanitarian actors, the latest developments at the international level will be reviewed. This meeting will also provide an opportunity for exchanges at the United Nations level. I presented the case to the government at the end of last year. He asked me to implement this second phase, which is expected to end at the end of the first quarter. At that time, all documents will be made available to Parliament. These are documents relating to an external audit carried out but also to other elements of assessment that have been drawn up and the direction that the government intends to take in this area. Since these guidelines will have to be implemented throughout the legislature, it is clear that we will have an opportunity to have a debate here in committee, after presenting the whole issue to the government. I said that I would come before the end of the year with conclusions before the government and, if possible, before Parliament, what I did. The government simply asked me to implement a second phase that will end at the end of the first quarter. That is when all the documents will be made available to you. On the other hand, Mr. Dallemagne, I believe I have provided documents relating to a number of elements of assessment, following missions carried out. But I don't know about mission reports.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u6	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u7	This is an African proverb that you probably bring back from your travels! Mr Dallemagne, I am telling you that I have given you a number of points. I will check within B-FAST whether there are any other reports on previous missions. I would point out that all the work that has been done is to try to draw lessons from all the findings we have made, especially after the mission in Nepal, but also during previous missions. We're going to gather all these elements together. The final phase is under way to be able to come, at the end of the quarter, with a conclusion to the government and submit all the documents, before the government implements the guidelines that have been defined. These may still be adapted in the light of the proposals made by the committee of which you are a member.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for these points of answer. I still have a major difficulty in telling myself that documents are visibly already available, in particular through the press, but that, on the other hand, this audit cannot be communicated to the Parliamentary Assembly and to parliamentarians. It is also difficult for me to envisage that we cannot consider that parliamentarians can be central and important players in today's reflection on B-FAST. I have the feeling that the work is done behind the scenes. We are not given any information; the lack of transparency is absolute. We will arrive, at the end of the race, like the carabinieri of Offenbach, when the text will already be completely linked. We will no longer have the opportunity to have a real debate and to contribute to what is being proposed for the future of B-FAST. Some of us have tabled motions at the end of these inquiries. These motions contain a series of guidelines that we wish to give to the future of B-FAST and to the future of European coordination which could take place within this framework. I hope that these elements will be taken into account in the current reflection. I deeply regret the lack of transparency that you and the government are demonstrating on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The more information passes through to Parliament, the better of course. We are in happy expectation of the documents. If I understand correctly, they'll be there by the end of this trimester.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u10	There was a written question on the aid of several countries to B-FAST, I believe. I have a document containing all the questions that have been asked about this in the past. I'll make that available.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u11	Minister, I'm a little surprised at the timetable you're proposing. Indeed, we all understood, our colleague from the N-VA too, that as soon as you had the results of this audit, they would be communicated to us. This is also reflected in your policy note. So today, you're going back. That is a pity because we deserve to be informed of this kind of conclusion. It is an important tool that I personally care about. I imagine that is the case with many other colleagues, too. We would like to see developments and we would have liked to be involved in the reflection on the evolution of this tool. You've just drawn a few axes. Rather than just having a discussion at the end of the race when you have a definitive scheme, I would have preferred that we be involved again in reflection and analysis. As for the mission reports, I am very surprised to see you imagine that there are none! Indeed, I do not see very well how, for an organization a fortiori public and multi-departmental that spends a lot of money, there could be no mission reports. It would be a serious malfunction. I imagine, of course, that there are mission reports, and I would like to have them. I think it is really time we knew exactly what the results of these missions were. Beyond the political translation you can give of it, I would like to know how many people have been rescued, rescued, cared for or received such or such material assistance, for how long and in what country. I find that these factual elements – which are not serious elements and which do not endanger our national security – must be public. It seems to me to be common sense. It is the very essence of public debate and Parliament's prerogatives to have access to this information that exists of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u12	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Gwenaëlle Grovonius and MM. Philippe Blanchart, Stéphane Crusnière and Dirk Van der Maelen and read as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign and European Affairs, responsible for Beliris and the Federal Cultural Institutions, asks the government 1. to ensure the sustainability of B-FAST as a state and public structure for rapid intervention based on a civil-military and voluntary multidisciplinary approach; 2. ensure the human, material, logistical and budgetary resources necessary for the success of B-FAST's missions by fully involving its various components and by providing ad hoc training for staff in particular medical staff; 3. to ensure that the announced reform, following an audit commissioned by the Minister, makes improvements to this structure, both in day-to-day management and during operations, but does not in any way call into question the public and multidisciplinary nature of B-FAST joining FPS Public Health, FPS Foreign Affairs, FPS Internal Affairs and National Defence. These different components must fully involve and provide sufficient means to ensure and improve the success of these missions in the future while ensuring continuity of service in Belgium; 4. to strengthen potential human and material synergies between fire services, rescue zones and B-FAST; 5. to take concrete action at European level to establish a European-level coordination of the type "EU-FAST" in a structural and permanent way on the Belgian multidisciplinary and civil-military model; 6. to explore the possibility that the B-FAST structure can be activated more easily and quickly in emergency and international solidarity situations to provide emergency relief, as during the Ebola crisis. A motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and by Mr Philippe Blanchart, Mr Stéphane Crusnière and Mr Dirk Van der Maelen as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs and European Affairs with responsibility for Beliris and the Federal Cultural Institutions, calls on the Government 1. ensure the continued existence of B-FAST as a public rapid intervention structure of the State, based on a civil-military and voluntary multidisciplinary approach; 2. to allocate the human, material, logistical and budgetary resources necessary for the success of the B-FAST missions and to involve all competent public administrations fully and to ensure the ad hoc training of staff, in particular medical staff; 3. ensure that the reform announced following the review ordered by the Minister makes improvements to that structure, both in day-to-day management and during operations, without, however, questioning the public and multidisciplinary nature of B-FAST and the shared competence of the FPS Health, Foreign Affairs, Home Affairs and Defence. These various components should be fully committed and provide sufficient resources to ensure and promote the success of these missions in the future while ensuring continuity of service in Belgium; 4. strengthen possible human and material synergies between fire services, relief zones and B-FAST; 5. take concrete action at European level to create a kind of EU-FAST debt, a structural and permanent European coordination based on the Belgian multidisciplinary and civil-military model; 6. examine whether B-FAST can be used more quickly and quickly to provide emergency aid in emergency situations requiring international solidarity, such as the Ebola crisis. [[---]] A simple motion was tabled by Sarah Claerhout, Nele Lijnen and MM. Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Peter Luykx and Richard Miller. A simple motion was tabled by ladies Sarah Claerhout and Nele Lijnen and by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Peter Luykx and Richard Miller. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u13	Mr. Minister, you invited our 104 Chiefs of Post to meet with Mr. From Wever to Antwerp as part of the Diplomatic Days. Our postmasters are invited to take buses and spend a good half-day in Antwerp. He won't have escaped you unless Mr. De Wever is party president and that it is a first, in the history of Belgian diplomacy, to invite diplomats, whose duty of reservation and impartiality you know, to meet in the framework of the Diplomatic Days a party president, which is more to explain his vision of the external relations of the city of Antwerp and to ask our diplomats to be briefed on the vision of international relations and the diplomacy of a Belgian city. I do not see what justifies such a programme. I do not understand how to justify a programme in which we are actually going to compromise the impartiality, the duty of reserve of our diplomats through such a programme, such a meeting. This is unjustifiable and unacceptable! In addition, this takes place after the meeting between Mr. De Wever and Mr. Sarkozy, a few days after the new clothes that Mr. De Wever on the international stage to spread his anti-Belgian message, his Eurosceptic message and totally contrary to the Belgian tradition of international diplomacy and the interests of Belgium as a federal state. I don't know the nature of future interviews. I imagine that he will specify the final date on which he wants our country to evaporate, since there is an internal discussion in the N-VA. He may announce that, after the evaporation of the Belgian state, he will no longer need these gentlemen, whom he wants to see removed – this is one of the paradoxes of this visit – but that he could retain one or the other to represent him in Catalonia, for example. This programme and this invitation seem unjustifiable and unacceptable to me! Minister, for what reasons did you consider it useful to give a boost to Mr. From Wever? How do you think our diplomats will feel about this exercise? In any case, I can tell you that some of them are shocked and that they find that this program is indecent – that is the term that has been reported to me. I would sincerely like you to give up this part of the programme, which is unacceptable to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of a federal state, who must be careful not to compromise the impartiality and reserve duty of our diplomats. I have learned since the filing of my question that some federated entities have asked to meet with them, but that they have been given an end to not receiving in the name of a lack of time. So we have time to meet a party president, but not to meet representatives of a federated entity. This is a real slippage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u14	Mr Minister, it is certainly not up to you to say this: Diplomatic Days are always an important moment, both diplomatically and economically and politically. The contacts made on this occasion must be multiplicity and must cover all areas of the competent authorities in international affairs. When we heard about the program of these Days, we were surprised and wondered. First of all, and this concerns us all, a tradition had been established that our diplomats and parliamentarians had to meet. You were part of it, anyway. It was important for us to discuss with them the situation of several countries, both in terms of parliamentary diplomacy and of the Inter-Parliamentary Union. Having been informed of this change, I immediately spoke to the chairman of our committee. I would like to take this opportunity to thank him for his address to the Speaker of the House and to the Conference of Presidents. Things have obviously changed, as the Speaker of the House has confirmed to me that there should be contact between parliamentarians and diplomats during these Diplomatic Days. I am delighted and wonder why this was no longer planned. I ask you to plan it every year in the future. With regard to federated entities, it is known that most of the foreign trade expertise has been regionalized. Here too, what was not our surprise to see in the program that no contact was planned. However, it was not because I asked for it because I have here the various exchanges that have taken place between the office of President Paul Magnette and your services. As early as October 9, there was a request for the Minister-President to speak on these Diplomatic Days. He was told that it was noted and that he would be returned when the program was a little clearer. After various reminders, on 3 November, he finally received a response that we would soon see more clearly about the programme. The night between the 3rd and the 4th must have been "illustrative" for your services since on 4 November he received a reply specifying that the programme is far too heavy and that it is unfortunately impossible for diplomats to meet with the Walloon Region. Later, when we got to know the program, I got a little better understanding. On reading this program, we see that there is a day planned for the visit to Antwerp. I can understand that because, after seeing the Prime Minister in office, it is normal for our diplomats to go and see the Prime Minister prevented! So we decide that it might be interesting for our diplomats to go to the big metropolises. We can understand it, but then why not do it too with big Walloon cities? I am frustrated and disappointed that the mayor of my city, Wavre, did not offer to receive our diplomats as well. Why only Flanders? Who made this request for Antwerp? Who made this decision? When was this request made? Before or after October? What is the purpose of this visit? In the programme, there is an imbalance in favour of the North, which is already in force in this government, both economically and politically, and which is now also evident in diplomacy. Last surprise about this programme and what was done before: no contact is planned with the Minister of Defence either, as we are engaged in many operations around the world – I am thinking of the fight against Daesh and our operations in Africa. We are being pondered over time on the fact that there would be a 3D strategy in this government, but as part of the Diplomatic Days, there is no planned contact with the Defence! We can also be surprised at that. Minister, what is the final agenda for these Diplomatic Days? How is this program developed? Who makes the final decisions? Will there be contact with the federated entities? Will the Walloon Minister-President be able to speak? Will we parliamentarians have the opportunity to meet with diplomats?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u15	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank parliamentarians for their interest in the organisation of the Diplomatic Days. Whatever contacts you have with any member of my department, there is not yet a Diplomatic Days program. I'm still the one who decides to send out a program. I am glad that some diplomats have sent you internal documents to the department on the preparation of what is proposed to me, but I am still the one who decides how the days will take place. I take note of the criticisms made by these diplomats about what is imagined by other diplomats in the department. I am surprised that none of these comments or criticisms have come to me. I would point out that until now, it is a work that has been done inside the house by the representatives of the department, and they submit to me, as always, the program. And as always, the program is roughly the same in all editions. I recall how we organize things. There's contact between our diplomats and their department. This is what it is about: to allow the representatives of our country to come back to Brussels to meet their colleagues, the various directorates of the department and to follow training and exchanges on certain thematic areas. On this occasion, beyond all these sessions, there are a number of exchanges with the political representatives of the department, in addition to the annual invitation to the Prime Minister to address all diplomats. I can confirm that I intend, as every year, to open the Diplomatic Days, to ask the Prime Minister to speak, as well as the Minister of Cooperation and the Secretary of State for Foreign Trade. Of course, the Minister of Defence will also have an opportunity to speak on these days. I would point out that it is the current Minister of Defence who will choose the terms of his intervention and not his predecessors. In the program, at the request of the Minister of Defence, there will be a breakfast with diplomats directly involved in his policy. I am very pleased that you want Minister N-VA of Defence to have a much more important place in these Diplomatic Days. But that's not his wish. I don't intend to give him instructions, or anyone else. As far as parliamentarians are concerned, I am very pleased that you are returning to the subject because this contact with Parliament was not made before I arrived in Foreign Affairs. My only regret, which has given rise to some exchanges with the Presidents of the House, is that in recent years the House Chamber was filled with diplomats but that they met very few parliamentarians. Fortunately, members of this commission were present. I hope, depending on what I am hearing today, that the Chamber will be too small at this forthcoming meeting. I asked if another formula was not possible, rather than asking all diplomats to come at 7:30 a.m. for breakfast in the House to meet about fifteen diplomats per Member of Parliament. We are going to organise the same meeting and I am sure that, given the strong interest shown by the press at Diplomatic Days, those who were already present will ask the other members of their group to join them for this exchange. I must admit that some diplomats had nevertheless made the remark to me: is it really useful if we do not have the opportunity to meet a large number of parliamentarians? That's the only question. But this meeting will still take place. I would add that, as usual, there will be meetings with trade union organizations. I'm surprised you're not more sensitive to this aspect of the days. There will also be meetings with business federations, whether federal or FEVIA, but also regional, such as the Walloon Business Union, VOKA or BECI. There will also be the traditional reception at the Royal Palace as well as a meeting with Princess Astrid, who leads the economic missions, involving all the partners involved in these missions. I could elaborate on this program, which is still provisional. As soon as I approve it, we'll send it to the diplomats. In addition to this classic program element, each year, at the request of some partners, we organize complementary events. These are left to the discretion of the diplomats. I do not check who wishes to go to a reception organised by the National Bank, by a large bank in the country, by a large company, by any organization or by federated entities upon request. I have received requests about which diplomats will be informed; they will choose whether or not to participate. What are these requests? There will be a breakfast with the Secretary of State for Foreign Trade of the Brussels Region, Ms Jodogne, who participates in all economic missions with Princess Astrid. I believe it is indeed useful for there to be an exchange after the events in the Brussels Region between the diplomats who wish to do so and the Head of Foreign Trade of the Brussels Region. This was programmed at the request of the Secretary of State. The Flemish minister-president requested that diplomats be invited to the Royal Museums of Fine Arts for the Rubens exhibition. Diplomats who wish to go to this reception organised by the Flemish Minister-President in the evening, to take an example, will of course have access to it. Having learned over the years to show a little diplomacy, I tend to respond to all the requests addressed to me. It was alluded to the mayor of the city of Antwerp. I do not want to exclude in the coming years visits to Mons or Bastogne simply because the mayor is the president of a party. It would be absurd to exclude such symbolic places, a city that has been a European capital of culture throughout 2015 or another that is visited by visitors from all over the world in memory of the historical events taking place there. Would you ask me to refuse to go simply because the president of a party is the mayor? I explain myself without difficulty. I received a telephone call, confirmed by a letter, from the mayor of Antwerp. She says the following. Dear Minister, dear Didier, following our phone conversation, I inform with this formal letter about the planning of federal representatives abroad during the diplomatic contact days early 2016. From the city of Antwerp its port we would like to invite these diplomats for a reception at the city hall. In this way we can discuss current economic and cultural issues and the importance of Antwerp and its port. An accurate representation abroad is in the interest of both Belgium, Flanders and Antwerp. Our city is happy to make its contribution by organising this event. We are at the beginning of November. I therefore replied that it would of course be possible to organise this visit. But since it is a matter of getting out of Brussels, the visit will take place after the end of diplomatic days, that is to say the Friday that ends the days. In the morning, there is a conclusion by the president of the department and, traditionally, I receive all diplomats with federal cultural institutions (Bozar, the Mint and the National Orchestra). I pointed out that on the afternoon of the 29th, it was possible to organize a visit to Antwerp, for the diplomats who wished to do so. If there are diplomats who consider it indecent to go to the largest city in the country in terms of number of inhabitants and in the port that feeds not only Belgium but a good part of Europe to see if it is useful abroad to defend our economic interests by focusing in particular on the port of Antwerp, the diamond sector or a whole series of other actors that I regularly find in economic missions, they will not go! It's their choice! But I found it normal that we could organize this and I asked for contact to be made with the department president's services to organize this event. What will be done, like all complementary events, on a voluntary basis. I don't want to force anyone to go to the city of Antwerp or any other city. I had a lot of meetings with Walloon government officials, but at no time did any Walloon government member ask me for anything. There was no request at all from the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. It's not my problem, if she doesn't want to... It is true that the Deputy Chief of Staff of the Minister-President Wallon first addressed the wrong person, and then the President of the Department at the end of October. I do not question the people but the Deputy Chief of Staff is responsible for the international cell and the weapons cell to the Minister-Presidency of the Walloon government. That's how it came about. She asked if it was possible for the Minister-President to have an opportunity to speak to all of the Heads of Position in the mandatory portion of the program. I like to defend the president of my FPS. The message was sent on 28 October. This was answered on 4 November. Some may consider this delay to be very long. For my part, I think it's normal. I will therefore read you this message: "Madam, since the diplomatic days programme is already very busy, it is unfortunately not possible for us to include an intervention by Minister Magnette in the official part of the programme. However, we see no problem with the Minister-President inviting the heads of post to an event outside the official program, as has already been the case in previous editions of Diplomatic Days. If so, we are prepared to send the invitation to the heads of post via our network, as we did before. "Truthful greetings." This is what we are doing for the Brussels Secretary of State, the Flemish Minister-President and the Mayor of Antwerp, who is the only city to have submitted a request on this subject. I admit that I was a little surprised at the answer, since the only comment we received on November 4 was: "This is not very correct and it is definitely always symptomatic of a culverted vision of international relations as implemented in Belgium. Well cordially." This last expression was not necessary when expressed in this way. [[Laughs]] To get to the end of my thinking, it is true that I am part of an old generation. I thought it was possible, in this exchange, for a minister-chair – on the occasion of a consultation committee or a telephone communication – to contact me. All this was sent – the emails are accurate – from my BlackBerry 10 smartphone. It stopped there. I did not receive any further requests. What else do you want me to do than repeat that, in the official programme, the minister of the department, the Prime Minister, some guests such as the former boss of the European External Action Service – Mr Wimand – or the governor of the National Bank – speak out? Then we said we were ready to offer our ambassadors further invitations. This was reiterated to the Minister-President. Again at this time, despite the statements I read elsewhere, I have not received any contact from the Walloon Region on this subject. However, in conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say to you that, as the programme has not yet been completed, I was informed, by means of a press release yesterday, of the availability of the City of Brussels. His Tourism ecclesiastical announced that the Brusselsers were willing to receive diplomats. I would point out that the diplomats will spend a whole week in Brussels, because that is where the meetings will take place. They will have the opportunity to visit a variety of venues, including museums and concert halls. They will have the opportunity to meet with the Secretary of State for Foreign Trade of the Brussels Region. Indeed, I believe that the problems that the Brussels municipalities have just experienced do not concern only the city of Brussels. However, when I received a request from a political authority, I asked my chief of staff to contact him. I did it personally. We tried to get in touch with the sheep, but he had a number of meetings. I finally sent him a letter this morning to tell him that if, of course, the city of Brussels wanted to organise an event, there is no difficulty. I want to tell you how things can happen differently when you take the trouble of contacting yourself. I have already received earlier, while the mail, the e-mail was sent this morning, a letter from the Bishop of Tourism of the city of Brussels, Mr Philippe Close, written in these words: "Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear Didier, I would like to thank you sincerely for the speed of your reaction. This noon, the urgent meeting of the College decided to respond favourably to your proposal. Together with my colleague in charge of the Economy, Marion Lemesre, we are establishing a programme that enables our diplomats to promote our capital which, as you know, needs it. We will contact your team very quickly to receive this delegation as best we can. I would like to take this opportunity to reaffirm our availability in this area. I beg you to believe, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, dear Didier, in the expression of my distinguished feelings. Thank you again! Philippe Close." Why? Just because he's talking about a proposal. I have noted the availability of the city of Brussels. So I asked him, like the mayor of Antwerp, to tell me about a programme. If a program can be different from a purely protocol program, - that's what I wrote to the mayor of Antwerp too - if it has content to present to diplomats, we are obviously available to organize the event, as has always been the case outside the programme strictly intended to organize relations between our diplomats and the Department of Foreign Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to see the interest that has gradually been aroused by the Diplomatic Days with parliamentarians. I regret that this interest is not as great in all the federated entities or in all the cities of Belgium. But I hope that this first, because there has been a request from a mayor and now a supplementary request from an alderman, will be followed by others. Personally, I find it very happy that Belgian diplomats have contact not only with their department, with the Prime Minister, but also with the opportunity in a whole series of complementary events, to meet, if they so wish, the heads of the federated entities and even other major institutions in our country. That's exactly how things went. If you wish, when the final programme is sent to the diplomats, I will of course communicate it to you. And do not hesitate to say - I have never taken any sanction in this matter - to the diplomats you would meet that they do not hesitate to send me their comments if they do. I am prepared to take into account a number of remarks made by major and immunized diplomats, who have no hesitation in speaking to their minister. I have not received any other requests from other cities or municipalities. This may still be happening, but I would point out that the programme is beginning to become heavy enough for all diplomats today. I did not have a request from the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. This is the first time in a few years. I found that the Walloon Region did not want to organize events outside of a possible speech by the minister-president to all diplomats. We have five ministers-presidents in Belgium and it is not the tradition to ask them to speak to diplomats at Diplomatic Days. It is the tradition, on the other hand, to propose to them to receive them in a separate event. Diplomats then choose whether to go there or not, which we continue to practice today. That, Mr President, was to be quite exhaustive because I understood that, in our international situation today, Diplomatic Days were still the focal point with the greatest attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u16	Thank you, Minister. I can always apply for my hometown Geraardsbergen...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u17	Minister, I recognize your art of drowning fish and referring to all sorts of fictions, as possible and imaginary invitations from other mayors. In the meantime, only one, obviously, has come to you. It's that of a party president. I think it would have been a good thing to see, on Bart De Wever's business card, beyond the mention "bourgmester of the city of Antwerp", the mention "president of the N-VA". Diplomaticly, that is not neutral, minister. We know the ambitions of Mr. From Wever to our country, what ambitions it has in relation to Europe and its pretensions on the international stage. So I'm very surprised that we're giving him so much space. This space, by definition, is a partisan space. I think we'll make our diplomacy uncomfortable in such a face-to-face. I still regret it. I'm also very surprised that you're waiting for an invitation to do a program. I thought that a Minister of Foreign Affairs was making a program himself and that he did not need to wait for an invitation to complete it, and we know that it is in charge. I am also very surprised that the federated entities are not part of the official program. Of course, I am glad that diplomats can go to the port of Antwerp and the city, but that was not my question and you know it well. Don't pretend to answer my question by telling me that you're surprised that I'm sorry they're visiting Antwerp. Of course not! I do not regret that they have contact with Flanders. I was not at all moved by the fact that they had contact with Mr Bourgeois. It seems natural and obvious to me. What worries me is this partisan contact that sets a precedent. I wish you could back up. I hear you've already done half-way back, because now it's part of the unofficial program. But in my version, this visit was part of the official program. So much the better if all the discussions around the Diplomatic Days have made it possible to have contact with the city of Brussels and the foreign trade of the Brussels Region. I am already glad that this contact with Mr. De Wever finally went through the informal programme, but I would like to see us go beyond it and refrain from putting our diplomats in a position that I believe should not be theirs. That is why I am tabling a motion for a recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u18	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would like to make some clarifications. I regret that the Minister of Defence did not find it interesting to meet with diplomats, especially in the current context. I don't know what you're referring to because I didn't see Pieter De Crem's statements. With regard to the paternity of what was initiated during the meetings between the Member and our diplomats, I would remind you that it was also a request made by the then Speaker of the House and to which you agreed. I remember it very well because he had an excellent chief of staff at that time. As far as the federated entities are concerned, you say that "you respond to all the requests addressed to you". It's quite surprising! Indeed, I repeat that an application has passed through the official channel through your administration. This was even before the request made by the city of Antwerp and you did not consider it appropriate to respond to it. However, it was an application to participate in the official program.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u19	This never happens! I do not intend to open participation in this official part to all the federated entities in this context. This is not the purpose of Diplomatic Days. As was the case in the past, this is done at complementary events. The Minister-President knows this because he was Minister of Cooperation and participated in the organization of Diplomatic Days. A whole series of events are organised in both the Brussels Region and the Flemish Region. I'm not going to ask the diplomats to attend together... If it is a question of explaining what is in the policy of one or the other Region, all the documents are available and we have the opportunity to explain the situation perfectly. I do not want the week to be a series of presentations, one after another, from all the representatives of all the federated entities. It's not very different from that. My answer, I told you, was formal: "No! Not with regard to the official programme aspect", but I see no problem in asking our diplomats to meet with the Minister-President at another event, as is always the case. Clearly, the Minister-Chair did not want to take action.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u20	This position does not correspond to the institutional reality of our country. In the field of external trade, the Regions have an important role to play. It's worth integrating them into a formal program. It is for this reason, Mr. Chairman, that I table a motion to ensure the presence of the federated entities under the program, as well as an involvement, each year, in the Diplomatic Days of this meeting with the House of Representatives, as well as with the Minister of Cooperation and the Minister of National Defence. In this 3D strategy (Diplomacy, Defence, Development) that our country must defend internationally, it is important! I would also like to add the meeting with the trade unions, which is also very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u21	Thank you very much for your explanation, Minister. You're actually a very good diplomat. Diplomats master the art of conducting consultation between groups with the aim of achieving results that are satisfactory for both parties. I do not think that is easy given the constellation of the country in which we live. In my view, people who are going to see a meeting with the mayor of Antwerp in the supplementary programme cramped as strange or unorthodox are ignoring the diplomatic reality of this country. That is why I welcome your openness. After all, it contributes to a better understanding of what is happening in Belgium today. I would also have liked to go a little further into the wonderful initiative that has been going on for several years, and in which we Members of Parliament are also asking to meet the united diplomats here in the Chamber during the certification days. From the first time it was organized, I have always been present. At first it was feared that the diplomats would not show up because of the early hour, but that was not the case. They were almost all there. It will certainly not be up to the diplomats that this is not a success, but perhaps because of the lack of interest or the effort to get up early to attend that meeting. In any case, I would like to continue to encourage and maintain this in the future. I think it is a wonderful initiative and I look forward to meeting them again at the end of January.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u22	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Dallemagne and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Georges Dallemagne and Stéphane Crusnière and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign and European Affairs, responsible for Beliris and the Federal Cultural Institutions, asks the government - to abolish from the programme of Diplomatic Days 2016 the visit currently planned at the city hall of Antwerp on 29 January 2016 (to attend a presentation on the external and economic relations of the city). Indeed, the withdrawal of the programme from this activity is indispensable in order to respect the necessary impartiality of our diplomats and not to compromise them in what is clearly a partisan advertising exercise in favour of a party president, who is also nationalist, separatist and Eurosceptic and who wishes to see Belgium disappear. Our diplomats do not have to serve as an advocate to the President of the N-VA and as a credit to the international stature that he would so much like to be recognized; - to respond to the official requests of the federated entities to be integrated into the official programme of the Diplomatic Days through specific and concerted thematic activities for each of them, as well as through the organization of meetings between our diplomats and the political representatives of each of the Regions and Communities of our country, in a spirit of good cooperation between federated and federal entities and in order to ensure the optimal coherence of our external representation." A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Dallemagne and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Georges Dallemagne and Mr Stéphane Crusnière and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs and European Affairs with responsibility for Beliris and the Federal Cultural Institutions, calls on the Government - delete the visit to the City Hall of Antwerp (for a presentation on the city's external economic relations) currently included in the Diplomatic Days programme on 29 January 2016. This activity must be taken out of the programme in order not to violate the necessary impartiality of our diplomats and not to involve them in what is clearly a publicity stunt in favour of a party president, who is also nationalist, separatist and eurosceptical, and wants to see Belgium disappear. Our diplomats should not be used to allow the chairman of the N-VA to take a good turn and to give credit to the international stature he is so keen to acquire; - to respond to the official requests of the sub-areas to be addressed in the official programme of Diplomatic Days by organising, in consultation, specific thematic activities for each sub-area and meetings between our diplomats and the political representatives of all the regions and communities of our country, in a spirit of positive cooperation between the sub-areas and the federal government, in order to ensure the optimum coherence of our representation abroad." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Gwenaëlle Grovonius and MM. Philippe Blanchart and Stéphane Crusnière read as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Georges Dallemagne and Stéphane Crusnière and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign and European Affairs, responsible for Beliris and the Federal Cultural Institutions, asks the government 1. to guarantee a programme of Diplomatic Days which reflects each year the institutional reality of our country, particularly at the international level (External trade, plans of socio-economic support,...) by responding to the demands made in this framework by the federated entities and guaranteeing a geographical balance between the different regions of our country in the official or informal activities proposed; 2. to guarantee a programme of diplomatic days which involves the House of Representatives (parliamentary diplomacy) every year; 3. To ensure a diplomatic day program that truly reflects our country's '3D' strategy at the international level every year by fully involving, in particular, the Ministers of Development Cooperation and National Defence; 4. to guarantee a programme of diplomatic days which involves trade unions every year." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and by Mr Philippe Blanchart and Mr Stéphane Crusnière as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Georges Dallemagne and Mr Stéphane Crusnière and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs and European Affairs with responsibility for Beliris and the Federal Cultural Institutions, calls on the Government 1. to ensure a diplomatic day programme in which the institutional situation in our country is reflected every year, particularly at international level (external trade, socio-economic aid plans, etc.), by responding to requests submitted in this context by the sub-regions and by ensuring a geographical balance between the various regions of our country in the proposed official or informal activities; 2. to ensure a diplomatic day programme involving the Chamber of Representatives every year (parliamentary democracy); 3. to ensure a diplomatic day programme in which the 3D strategy (development, diplomacy, defence) of our country is clearly expressed at international level every year, by involving in particular the Minister of Development Cooperation and the Minister of Defence in its preparation; 4. to ensure a diplomatic day programme involving trade unions each year." A simple motion was tabled by Sarah Claerhout and MM. Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Peter Luykx, Richard Miller and Tim Vandenput. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sarah Claerhout and Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Peter Luykx, Richar Miller and Tim Vandenput. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u23	Mr President, Minister, in October we received various reports of alleged irregularities in the diplomatic examination. An article in De Standaard said: "At Selor there are several complaints about the new diplomatic exam, about examiners who put in the penultimate round parts of answers on Facebook and about happing computers."
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u24	We attach great importance to our diplomats as our representatives abroad. They have the honorable and very sensitive task of defending the interests of Belgium and of Belgians abroad. Their impartial selection and competence must be beyond any doubt. If not, it is difficult to maintain the reputation of the diplomatic corps and ensure the proper functioning of our foreign service. For this reason, Minister, the selection for the recruitment of trainees for the foreign diplomatic career must take place without any suspicion of bias or other irregularities. So I have the following questions. What trajectory did the candidates go through? How was the jury assembled? Who were the jurors and how were they selected? Are the people involved in this selection subject to a deontological code? Were there any complaints filed with your services, the federal ombud service or Selor? What was the nature of these complaints? Was a case brought before the Council of State by candidates? If so, on what grounds? What steps do you, as Foreign Minister, take in the follow-up to these complaints and to monitor the integrity of the procedure? How do you assess the impact on the current procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u25	Madam President, Mrs Claerhout, I can be very brief for a simple reason. Section 3 of the Royal Decree of 4 July 2014 establishing the status of foreign career and consular career officials determines the framework for recruitment. I'll ask my associate to provide you with a copy of the royal decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u26	Selor is responsible for organising the comparative selection leading to a ranking of the graduates. The comparative selection programme is also laid down in the Royal Decree. I therefore refer you to the Minister responsible, Mr Vandeput, responsible for civil service matters, for the question of selection. I get a ranking and we will recruit 44 new diplomats in 2016. I hope that it will be possible to do the same number of recruitments in 2017. I'll ask you to send a copy of the royal decree with the various elements of the selection process, but it's Selor's jurisdiction. We'll get a ranking of Selor at the end. Perhaps you could put the other questions to my colleague in the civil service.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u27	Mr. Secretary, I will do that. I understand from your answer that no complaints have been made to your services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u28	I didn't receive a complaint myself, nor did my head of the cabinet. We will ask the services, but I have not received a complaint from any candidate. Maybe that's the case with Selor. I will ask, because it may be the case with one of the other departments of the department. However, I have received an answer from the service, without any information on a possible complaint. There are, however, other possibilities: at Selor, at the Council of State, at the Minister of Civil Service, or at other institutions, such as the jury. You must put the question to my colleague in the Civil Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u29	Minister, what is the state of play on the Business and Human Rights Action Plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u30	Mrs Claerhout, thank you for your interest in the creation of the Belgian National Action Plan Business and Human Rights implementing the 31 UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. This is an important ambition of this government. It is also a priority of our foreign policy, which focuses on compliance with international human rights obligations. Of course, it is a dossier to which I personally attach great importance. Foreign Affairs draws this dossier in collaboration with the Institute for Sustainable Development, which has the substantive lead of this exercise, in which several other federal ministries and also the Regions participate. After a few rounds of internal consultations, we have made progress in the consultation with the various external stakeholders, such as civil society, business and trade unions. The first phase of this external consultation took place between April and September 2014. Subsequently, the competent federal and regional authorities drew up a first text. It was submitted to external stakeholders and competent federal advisory councils in autumn 2015. Three stakeholder dialogues based on the text already took place in November 2015. The text has now also been sent to the relevant Advisory Councils. Of course, the results of these consultations will be available online. Based on the responses, recommendations and opinions of the different stakeholders, the proposal of the National Action Plan will then be amended and a final version will be adopted by the different competent governments in spring 2016. The procedure is ongoing and all the results will be made available on the website.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u31	Mr Minister, following the Indian-Japanese agreement on the safeguard of international shipping routes and the associated military exercise, the arms race in the disputed South China Sea has been accelerated. There is a particular concern about the Chinese build-up drive on the reefs of the Spratly Islands, where the government in Beijing had no less than seven artificial islands created, one of which would serve as the basis for an air force. The facts follow each other quickly. My question dates back to 15 December. While the Philippines concluded an important defense agreement with Washington, Australia stepped up its patrols to counter China's expansion drive. Meanwhile, the U.S. Navy showed itself to be very assertive in confrontations with the Chinese fleet. More and more countries with claims in the South China Sea are opting for military display of power when settling their territorial disputes, instead of arbitration under international law. Mr Minister, I am concerned about this evolution. That is why I have two questions for you. Firstly, the Belgian vision is in line with the European Union's attitude: no statements are made on the merits of the claims, but it calls for no unilateral action to be taken. In the light of the recent events I have described, that does not seem to work at 100%. Do you consider an adjustment necessary, or what is your view on that? Secondly, the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague is currently examining the protection of the Filipino territorial claim that overlaps the Chinese claim in the South China Sea. So far, Beijing has boycotted that arbitration process because it does not recognise jurisdiction. Will Belgium urge China to take part in this reconciliation process?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u32	Mr Luykx, in order to resolve the territorial disputes in the South China Sea, the European Union is defending the respect of international law by all parties concerned and the correct application of UNCLOS. Like Belgium, Europe has nothing to gain from choosing a party to the sovereignty claims of the countries in that region and does not wish to do so. The European Union, supported by Belgium, has a clear position on how the sovereignty issue should be resolved, by peaceful means and by legally binding agreements. The current policy consists of support for confidence-building initiatives, sharing of own experience and legal expertise, preventive diplomacy and support for organisations such as the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) which develop an international code of conduct for the South China Sea. That policy must continue. The Permanent Arbitration Court in The Hague is expected to rule on the applicability of maritime law to territorial disputes in the South China Sea in the first quarter of 2016. That statement is important. As a contracting party to UNCLOS, Belgium and the European Union have an interest in ensuring that the Convention is properly respected in the South China Sea as well. However, it is not a final solution to the territorial disputes, on the one hand, because China does not recognise the competence of the Permanent Arbitration Court and, on the other hand, because the court cannot rule on sovereignty claims. The only way to resolve the territorial conflict in the South China Sea is through negotiations. I will not fail to recall that position in bilateral contact with the party concerned. We are in contact with the European Union in the same way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u33	The government therefore follows the line of the negotiations. I understand that, on the substance, the government does not rule on the territorial issue. I am not reassured, but I am pleased that you will reiterate that concern in bilateral contact with Beijing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u34	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Blanchart's 8082 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u35	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the European Commission's plan to set up a European Border and Coast Guard Agency to replace the Frontex Agency, which has shown its limits in times of acute crisis at the present stage of the Treaties. This new European agency would aim to improve the surveillance of the external borders of the Schengen area. If the project succeeds, the European Agency will operate not only at the entrances of the Schengen area but also at exits (verification of who leaves the territory and the fight against terrorism). If the European Agency is created, it will benefit from human support (1 000 people in 2020 while 400 people currently work for Frontex) and much more financial support. It will also have clean equipment. The powers of the future European agency would be very broad, since it could ultimately decide to intervene against the will of a State. Minister, can you give me your government's position on this project? What democratic safeguards are envisaged (e.g. control by the European Parliament)? What powers would Member States like our country have in relation to such an agency? What consequences will this project have for us?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u36	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, the current migration crisis shows enough the need for effective control of the external borders of the European Union. Belgium is in favour of strengthening it, including through tools put in place by the Union. We can therefore welcome the European Commission's willingness to establish a more efficient and integrated border management system. However, the Commission proposal was not introduced until the end of last year. It was first presented at the working group level, but negotiations have not really begun. The various elements of the proposal are still under consideration. The Belgian position will, in the coming days, be coordinated between the various bodies concerned. The Regulation establishing a European Border and Coast Guard Agency should be adopted as a co-decision. The agreement of the European Parliament will therefore be necessary. The Commission's proposal also contains several provisions which will enable the European Parliament to monitor the Agency's activities. The agency will have a duty to inform Parliament. In particular, it should send it its programme of work and an annual report on its activities. The Director of the Agency may be invited to report to the European Parliament. The Agency will have to ensure that fundamental rights are respected in its activities. A human rights officer, with a broad role, will be appointed and a complaints mechanism will be established. We will have the opportunity to examine the Commission's proposals, as provided for, and to see if there are any elements to strengthen this monitoring mechanism to be put in place. I repeat that we are in favour of strengthening effective control of the Union's external borders by means of a more effective, more integrated management system, if possible implemented at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u38	Thank you, Mr President, for your flexibility in dealing with the agenda. Minister, over the past 18 months, the number of foreign fighters that have been drawn to Syria and Iraq has more than doubled. The question can be asked why. In my opinion, this is mainly due to the active use of social media and other Internet propaganda campaigns. On Syria and Iraq, we can ask ourselves how the IS leaders have access to the Internet. When we look at the fixed and telecommunications infrastructure that is there, we find that there is not much at all. Nor are there fibers or a telecoms network that allows easy access to the Internet. On 4 December 2015, an article about how the IS has access to the internet was published online on the website of Der Spiegel. The author of the article came to the conclusion that such access takes place via satellite receivers which they are likely to cross the border with Turkey. That way they have a satellite connection to the Internet. It is striking that these satellites and data centres are and are managed here in Europe. These are often European providers who offer the services. All data comes via European data centres and is thus placed on the Internet. Since users of satellite receivers have to transmit their exact GPS coordinates in order to receive the Internet, it is therefore very simple, according to telecom experts, to locate their users. Moreover, it would also be very easy for satellite operators to disable specific connections or even look at what users of those connections up and download. Technically, according to that information, it should be perfectly possible to deny members of the IS access to the Internet or to watch with them what they do online. In addition to the financial prohibition to be carried out, it would also be a good and important measure in the fight against and reduction of IS to dry out communication channels to or from IS. Mr Minister, I have the following two questions. Is the international coalition against IS considering asking European satellite operators operating specifically in Syria and Iraq to break suspicious Internet subscriptions and connections? If so, is that already happening? If not, why doesn't that happen? If this does not happen yet, will you urge your fellow Members within the international alliance to consider this measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u39	Mr Vandenput, our country is indeed part of the global anti-Daesh coalition from the outset. This coalition is composed of 65 countries and two international organisations, which contribute in different ways to the fight against Daesh: with military actions, military assistance or political support. The strategy to fight Daesh is built around different lines of action, one of which is preventing the influx of foreign terrorist fighters. It is estimated that around 5 000 fighters come from EU Member States. However, most of the foreign terrorist fighters in Syria and Iraq come from Arab countries. Efforts to stop the phenomenon of foreign terrorist fighters must be continued. At Belgian level, although we must be careful with figures, we do see concrete results of the measures taken. There is a visible decrease in the number of people leaving for Syria. As for your questions about breaking suspicious Internet subscriptions and connections in Syria and Iraq, there are several elements that we need to take into account. For example, access to the Internet offers the people of the occupied territory the opportunity to obtain correct information about the situation in that area and about the fight against terrorism in the region and the rest of the world. However, in our own countries, including Belgium, more and more efforts are being made to monitor radical content on the Internet, after which targeted actions are possible, in cooperation with the provider or in the framework of a judicial investigation. A global approach is also needed in this respect, given the specific characteristics of the Internet. This is also being addressed at European level, through the creation of the Internet Referral Unit at Europol in July 2015, to improve coordination and division of tasks on the detection, flagging, monitoring and analysis of terrorist content on the Internet. The IRU has already referred more than 920 cases to the Member States. In 511 cases this has also led to the deletion of content. It was mainly about twitter accounts that spread IS-related propaganda. Last Monday I was in The Hague for a meeting, an international forum of the coalition, with regard to foreign terrorist fighters. We had a joint meeting with the two organisations to move forward in this direction. I can tell you that I have heard from Interpol and Europol that our country has had the correct response and a lot of information has been exchanged with Interpol and Europol. There are still a number of countries that have not yet decided to go in the same direction. We are trying to achieve better cooperation in this respect. So there is not only a reaction in Syria and Iraq regarding the Internet and the various possible connections, but also in our country and in Europe. We must always strike a balance between the benefit of such a link for the population and the importance of taking a series of measures against IS on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u40	UN Envoy Martin Kobler announced on 17 December 2015 that the rival groups in Libya would have reached a peace agreement after a 14-month negotiation process. The heads of the rival parliaments in Tripoli and Tobruk have for the time being refused to support the agreement. What is the Minister's assessment of this provisional fragile peace agreement? How concrete do you see the path towards an inclusive national unitary government for Libya? What elements can contribute? How can the international community contribute? Lately, the terror group IS is getting stronger in Libya. The city of Sirte would form a stronghold of IS. During the first days of January, the group became even more active. There are already several attacks on oil installations, including heavy weapons and tanks. On 7 January, a bloody attack took place at a military training camp with dozens of deaths. How do you estimate the rise of IS in Libya? Is the growing presence of IS an essential danger to our security in Europe? What steps do you think should be taken to stop this turnout? Are measures being taken, or is something being prepared by the international community? Do you think there is a real chance of a unified Libyan government in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u41	Mr President, on 8 October, following intensive consultations with the participants in the political dialogue, the UN Secretary-General's Special Representative, Mr León, announced that negotiations on the Libyan political agreement, which should lead to the formation of a government of national unity, could be concluded. The text of the agreement was then to be submitted to the House of Representatives in Tobruk and to the General National Congress in Tripoli for approval. However, spoilers in both parliaments have prevented formal approval of the text in these bodies. On 17 October, Martin Kobler took over Bernardino León's torch and decided to work on the basis of the political agreement. Although spoilers tried to conduct a parallel process, it was concluded that the process had sufficient political legitimacy than to conclude it and allow the formation of a national unity government. On 13 December, a ministerial meeting was held in Rome with the objective of reaffirming the support of the international community for the UN process, inter alia through a communiqué announcing that only the government of national agreement would be recognized as legitimate authority. On 17 December, an agreement was signed in Skhirat by participants in the political dialogue, including members of the House of Representatives and the General National Congress, political parties, civil society organisations, municipalities and women's organisations. A nine-member Presidential Council, led by Prime Minister Fayez el-Sarraj, was also established. On 23 December, the Security Council adopted Resolution 2259 which welcomed the signing of the agreement and supported the Rome Communiqué. In accordance with the agreement, the Presidential Council was asked to form a government within 30 days and to take security measures. I immediately welcomed the signing of this agreement as a sign of hope for a better future for the Libyan people. Belgium has always supported the UNSMIL process, because only with a unitary government does the international community have an interlocutor with whom it can work effectively to address the major challenges in Libya urgently. High Representative Mogherini also welcomed this agreement on behalf of all Member States and reaffirmed the European Union's commitment to support a national union government on the basis of a EUR 100 million support package. On 8 January, the High Representative met with the Presidential Council to discuss how the European Union could provide concrete support to the Government of National Unity as soon as it took office, particularly in the areas of humanitarian aid, institution-building and security, according to Libyan priorities. In the meantime, Member States are also working through the joint programming to coordinate the assistance each State intends to provide at national level. The Presidential Council will hopefully be able to be formed in the coming weeks, but the obstacles and challenges are indeed great. The government will have to establish its authority throughout the territory and institutions such as the National Oil Company, the Central Bank and the Libyan Investment Authority will soon have to prove themselves as a stabilising influence, allowing a number of basic services to function again to the population. We can expect spoilers to try to undermine efforts. The international community can play an important role in this by suspending official contacts with other parties and supporting the unitary government. The security issue is also an important challenge for the Libyan authorities, a challenge that needs to be addressed urgently. The attacks that took place earlier this month against oil infrastructure in Sirte and a police station in Zliten, which killed 47 people, were all claimed by the Islamic State terrorist group. This shows that this group was able to take advantage of the power vacuum in Libya to strengthen its position. It is therefore essential that the legitimate authorities, supported by the international community, be able to put an end to this power vacuum. As for your last question, we are seeing an alarming strengthening of Daesh in Libya, including in Sirte. As Daesh is under pressure in Syria and Iraq, the ties with the Libyan branch are strengthened and fears are growing that a safe harbour will be built or even the Daesh command could partly move to Libya. The central command of Daesh would consider Libya, with its strategic position between Africa, the Middle East and Europe, as the best opportunity for further expansion of the Caliphate. In addition, other terrorist organisations associated with Al Qaeda continue to pose an important threat. It is also important from this point of view that Libya should be stabilised as quickly as possible so that a unified government can regain control of the area currently under Daesh control. Since this is a fairly important coastal strip, it is not without importance for the control of refugee flows. The resulting threat is regional and international. There is a potential increase in foreign fighters in Libya. On some Daesh channels, foreign fighters are encouraged to leave Syria and Iraq to go to Libya instead. It is not yet clear to what extent this is actually happening. The global anti-Daesh coalition pays due attention to the development of Daesh's global network including Libya. For strategic reasons, however, it seems appropriate to continue to regard the core in Iraq and Syria as a top priority, as Daesh achieves its resources, strength of impact, appearance and organisational strength. It is also the source of the caliphate narrative that attracts others. A weakening of the core makes the tasks less attractive to foreign fighters and other potential members. Local or regional initiatives can be used to deal with the challenges and support local counter-terrorism capacities. An important factor in this is that, in Libya's tribal context, Daesh cannot naturally extend its support. Nevertheless, a high level of vigilance is needed in relation to developments in Libya. In December 2015, a political breakthrough was achieved after more than a year of negotiations in Libya. I said that in response to another question. I think it is our job to give more support to that political agreement to achieve a correct rule of law in Libya after many attempts. It is true that there are more and more Daesh people in Libya. Last Monday I was in The Hague and that was one of the concerns of all members of the coalition and of the international forum on foreign fighters.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u42	Mr President, Minister, I am pleased to hear that there is also international attention to the problem of Libya. Due to its central location near Europe, Africa and the Middle East and the chaos that exists, Libya can be the promised country for Daesh. We must avoid this and the political path must indeed be followed. With a stabilisation of the political body and with a government, Daesh can be prevented from getting a foothold there. We'll have to help the government and reduce Daesh there. I am pleased that you are following this closely and will follow it further.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u43	Mr President, I have two questions about North Korea. My first question dates from December 2015, but in the meantime we have received the hydrogen bomb test, so now we are dealing with two issues. Let us first talk about the human rights situation. On 10 December 2015, the UN Security Council met for the second time in its history on the human rights situation in North Korea. A very critical report earlier stated that the North Korean regime is committing abuses that amount to crimes against humanity and that the situation should be referred to the International Criminal Court. China and Russia have always resisted the advance of this issue in the UN Security Council. China intercepts North Korean refugees and sends them back to North Korea where these people await a gruesome punishment. North Korea considers any discussion and criticism of its human rights policy as an infringement of its sovereignty and has in the past threatened to respond to its nuclear weapons. Pyongyang claims that the criminal camps do not exist, despite stories of escaped North Koreans. The satellite photos also say enough. I have a number of questions about this. What is your view of this human rights situation in North Korea? How do you evaluate the efforts of the international community to include the human rights situation in North Korea on the political agenda and to get those responsible for these human rights violations before the International Criminal Court? How do you estimate the progress of the North Korean nuclear weapons programme? I will ask a number of other questions about this later. How is there also an attempt to increase international pressure on China to stop sending North Korean refugees back to their own country? What results were published on this subject? Have you had contact with North Korean diplomats in the last two years and raised the human rights situation? I would also have liked to talk about the North Korean nuclear weapons programme. I don't have to tell you that in early January 2016, North Korea announced that it successfully tested a hydrogen bomb. That's the fourth in a row. This resulted in international anxiety and condemnations of the test. At the same time, experts doubt whether a hydrogen bomb has actually been tested. I have a number of questions about this too. How do you estimate the announcement of a successful hydrogen bomb test? What steps do you think the international community should take next and where does Europe find itself in this? What has been the impact of the sanctions regime on the North Korean regime and nuclear weapons programme so far? How do you assess the attitude of China and Russia towards North Korea? How do you estimate the survival of the Kim regime?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u44	Minister, North Korea has indeed claimed to have conducted its first hydrogen bomb test, much more powerful than the conventional atomic bomb. If this test is confirmed, it would demonstrate that North Korea is pursuing its nuclear programme and thus violating the international obligations set out in several UN Security Council resolutions. As a reminder, North Korea had already tested the atomic bomb on three occasions (in 2006, 2009 and 2013); at each recovery, the international community had condemned the tests and sanctions had been imposed. Here, too, the international community soon condemned this new test. The United States and Japan have requested an emergency meeting of the United Nations Security Council. Ms. Mogherini also denounced the dangerous and illegal behaviour of North Korea. Therefore, Minister, the UN Security Council met on 6 January 2016 and the 15 member countries decided to take further significant steps towards North Korea. Can you tell me whether you have already had a meeting with your European counterparts, or whether you intend to hold one, to determine whether the European Union intends to take further action against North Korea? After the first nuclear tests, the European Union had imposed a series of trade bans and frozen the assets of some people. If the new test is confirmed, do you think that the European Union needs to tighten its tone and take further action? At the same time, what is the situation of the North Korean population and what about the food aid provided by the European Union to this hungry population?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u45	Mr.President, Deputy Prime Minister, on Wednesday, January 6, 2016, North Korea announced that it had successfully conducted its first hydrogen bomb test, an information to be taken conditionally because it had already been challenged by a number of experts. The conduct of this explosion has been condemned by the international community. China, the main ally of North Korea, expressed its deep disapproval of this situation. In addition, European bodies such as the chancelleries of its Member States, Russia, South Korea and Japan, have all denounced a flagrant violation of international rules. The 15 member countries of the UN Security Council also announced that they would work on "significant additional measures " to increase sanctions against that State. You yourself responded directly and firmly by means of a press release. On that occasion, you expressed your concerns and called on North Korea to immediately cease its nuclear programme. Here we should welcome the unanimous response of the international community and, therefore, the voice of our country to these serious acts. We must continue to be vigilant and to work to ensure that this country finally renounces its will to arm itself. Mr Minister, could you tell us whether, beyond these statements, specific initiatives have already been taken or will be taken on this subject by the European and international institutions? Have there been any specific consultations between the European and transatlantic partners and, where appropriate, what has been the content of these consultations? In addition, how do you view these actions and, in particular, the increase in targeted sanctions against that country, discussed by the Security Council? Do you think they should be weighed down? If so, how? How can they be defined so that they can bear fruit without unduly affecting the civilian population? In addition to the sanctions, do you think that this unity of the international community can make it possible to relaunch the quadripartite negotiations on the future of the Korean peninsula? Do you think that this episode can revive discussions on the ratification and final implementation of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, which was opened for signature in 1996, but which has not yet entered into force? Finally, to what extent will this new essay influence our political relations with North Korea?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject has already been discussed in detail here. Anyone who knows a little bit of his history, of course, knows that Korea, which is at first sight far away, gave rise to tensions in the 1950s that brought us very close to a world fire. From a certain point of view, Korea is in our backyard and deserves our attention. According to Kim Yong-Un's announcement, a successful hydrogen bomb has been developed and tested there, as it says, to avoid a nuclear war with the United States. Everyone may have to frame their news as it sounds best. In response to the development, the United States has launched a B52 bomber over South Korea. In any case, there is undoubted tension in that delicate region. To what extent is the news about the development and testing of the bomb formal? Can that be formally confirmed? What contacts do you have with your international counterparts about this? If the nuclear test takes place effectively, the United States says that international obligations have been violated. I think that is not such a strange argument for being a modest Member of this House. How do you see that and what actions should follow?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, the nuclear test on January 6 shows us that North Korea is continuing to develop its illegal military nuclear programme. For my part, I called on North Korea the same day to immediately cease the development of nuclear weapons and to comply with its international obligations. This new provocation is unacceptable in many ways. First, because it endangers peace and stability in the region, then this challenge to international legality cannot remain without consequences. While more data will be needed to determine the exact nature of this test, even if it was not a hydrogen bomb, North Korean action remains a violation of the international non-proliferation regime and a violation of the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. First, it is up to the Security Council to decide what action it wishes to take against North Korea. A new Security Council resolution was announced. The European Union could impose additional sanctions in order to increase pressure on the North Korean regime to stop its provocations and to begin to respect the rules of the international game. Discussions within the European Union are planned in the near future, the subject will certainly be discussed at the Foreign Affairs Council on 18 January. Sanctions play an essential role in the dossier. They show that unacceptable behaviour is not without consequence. It is also a means of exerting pressure which has already proved able to change behaviour in other cases. In order for sanctions to be effective, the international community must be united. In this respect, I think it is positive that China has clearly condemned the North Korean nuclear test. Ultimately, a solution will have to be found on the basis of international consultation. However, given the background, there is a reluctance to launch a new round of talks with North Korea without any clear guarantees. The US is only prepared to re-activate the six-party consultation, which has been inactive since 2009, in the event of a concrete commitment to denuclearisation by North Korea. 2016 marks the 20th anniversary of the conclusion of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. Belgium and the United Kingdom have launched an initiative within the European Union to use this opportunity to advance the objective of the entry into force of the Treaty. It is clear that last week's event demonstrates the need for a speedy entry into force of the Treaty. But, alas, North Korea is one of the eight States that still have to ratify the treaty, so that that goal can become reality. Belgium has maintained diplomatic relations with North Korea since 2001. The fourth nuclear test will of course be condemned at the next bilateral interview of my administration with North Korea. If there are new sanctions by that time, March or April, they will be mentioned. As regards the situation of the North Korean population and the European Union's food aid, the country has experienced difficulties in recent years due to extreme weather conditions. Tens of thousands of hectares of agricultural land are frequently damaged by flooding. While recent assessments of the food and nutrition situation in North Korea do not at present justify emergency aid, the situation remains fragile and is likely to deteriorate in the event of shock. Since 1995, the European Union has allocated more than €135 million in humanitarian aid to North Korea. Following the floods in August 2015, the European Union provided €200,000 to support the International Federation of the Red Cross to promote hygiene measures and provide drinking water, shelter and non-food items to affected populations. Similar assistance was provided through the International Federation of the Red Cross following the floods in 2012 and 2013, when the European Union contributed €200,000 and €132,520 respectively. Through its Disaster Preparedness Program, the European Union supports a multi-country initiative that includes North Korea. Implemented by the Food and Agriculture Organization, this action aims to increase capacity for risk reduction in agriculture. As regards the human rights situation in North Korea, I share your concern. Together with the EU and similar countries, Belgium condemns the systematic violations of human rights in North Korea. That is why, both in the Human Rights Council and in the General Assembly, the EU has tabled a resolution on the human rights situation in North Korea, which has always been co-sponsored by our country. I would remind you that the resolution in the Human Rights Council renewed the mandate of the special rapporteur for the human rights situation in North Korea. In addition, our country also formulated questions and recommendations to North Korea during the Universal Periodic Review Procedure of the Human Rights Council. The international community has succeeded in putting the human rights situation on the Security Council's agenda. As you will no doubt know, a referral of the human rights situation in North Korea to the International Criminal Court is not possible unless all permanent members of the Security Council agree. On a bilateral level, Belgium is also suing the poor human rights situation. In the context of its diplomatic relations with North Korea, my administration meets politicians, diplomats or other officials every three or four months in that country. The human rights issue is always on the agenda. China is regularly reminded of its international obligations under the Geneva Conventions 1 and 4 of 1956 and Protocols 1 and 2 of 1983, which it has signed and ratified. The latest EU-China Human Rights Dialogue in Beijing on 30 November 2015 called on the European side to ensure that China can guarantee that refugees from North Korea will not be returned to their country of origin, where they will be subjected to inhuman treatment, and possibly even the death penalty. Chinese side didn't answer that. I therefore share your concern. Our country will not fail to raise this issue again at bi- or multilateral level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u48	Mr Minister, our country did indeed point the finger at the wound during the second cycle of the Universal Periodic Review by making essential recommendations to the Kim regime. It is also extremely important to remind China, bilaterally and multilaterally, of its responsibility in the reception of refugees. Thank you for your very detailed reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u49	Minister, thank you for the accuracy of your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u50	Minister, I thank you for your particularly thorough response and the reminder of your firm condemnation on this subject. I welcome this joint initiative between Belgium and the United Kingdom and your renewed commitment to bring the Treaty into force quickly. Finally, I also note with satisfaction your intention to remind North Korea of its bilateral relations with North Korea, particularly during your next meetings in March-April, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, my proposal would be items 18 and 19 on the agenda, i.e. Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Paragraph 20 contains a whole series of questions about the situation in the Middle East. There's another committee meeting in 14 days. Unfortunately, the Middle East will still be very topical at that time. The point is too important to handle on a trot at 18:57. Do you agree to include these questions on the Middle East as the first item on the agenda for the next committee meeting on 27 January? After all, the debate is important enough. [[Assent]] In that case, Members who no longer have a question can leave. I merely ask Mr Vandenput and Mrs Grovonius to stay and ask their questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u52	Mr President, there may also be other very important points.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u53	I am sure that this must be done very unexpectedly, in order to find something even more important than the situation in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u54	Mr President, I have learned today that Diplomatic Days are more important than the Middle East.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u55	Mr Minister, my question is not about who should first be visited, Brussels or Antwerp, but about Saudi Arabia. That country has established a coalition of 34 Muslim countries with the aim of cooperation against terror. The countries would cooperate militarily through the exchange of more information and through the deployment of ground forces to combat groups such as IS. The fight against extremist ideologies, according to Saudi Arabia, is the second goal. How do you judge this coalition against terror? How will it relate to the existing alliance against IS of which Belgium is part? How do you assess Saudi Arabia's self-declared goal of fighting extremist ideologies? How do you see this development in the context of regional instability and the divergent interests of Saudi Arabia and Iran in the region?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u56	Mr President, Mr Vandenput, since the public announcement of the alliance of Muslim countries against terror, the Saudi initiative has not yet been implemented. We must therefore wait before we can comment on the impact and effectiveness of this new initiative. However, I think it is a good idea for Muslim countries to take a more active role in the international fight against terrorism and Daesh there. It is not repeated enough that the largest number of victims of terrorism in the world are Muslims. They also have a role to play in legitimising Daesh and his terrorist activities. I believe that if we really want to overcome Daesh, cooperation between all regional players, including Iran and Saudi Arabia, is essential. I said myself that it is not just the United States, Europe and Russia, but also Saudi Arabia, Iran and Turkey, the three regionally important countries. Unfortunately, it seems that the regional rivalry between Iran and Saudi Arabia makes both countries deviate from what should be a common objective, namely the stability of the region and the fight against terrorism. In Yemen, however, we see that the coalition, driven by Saudi Arabia, has officially denounced the ceasefire. Iran and Saudi Arabia have committed themselves to continuing to support the search for a politically negotiated solution for Syria within the framework of the ISSG. In my bilateral contacts in multilateral fora, I will continue to encourage both countries to cooperate and to maintain dialogue, as this is necessary if we are to be successful in the fight against terrorism and in the resolution of the crises in Yemen, Syria and Iraq. I can tell you that yesterday I had contact with Deputy Secretary-General Feltman of the United Nations. There I received the same reaction: we must continue to work, for example in Vienna, with everyone on board. I have already said this in plenary session, for example after the nuclear agreement with Iran, but also in relation to Saudi Arabia, despite the extensive criticism of human rights violations in actions in Saudi Arabia. Turkey must also remain involved in the open dialogue to find a solution for Syria, Iraq and perhaps also for Yemen. Secondly, I repeat that it is very useful to have a dialogue with all countries on human rights. I said myself that we have been in contact with North Korea since the early 2000s. I know that it is not useful for several Members of this House, not for you but for others, to have contact with many people and sometimes with mayors in Belgium, but well, I think it is my job to have contact. There is also another possibility of a genuine human rights dialogue with the various countries. With Iran, I started that dialogue on my last visit to that country. I will also be in contact with my colleague, Mr Zarif, in the next few weeks. Maybe he'll come to Belgium. We're trying to go the same way with Saudi Arabia. There is a third element to respond to the numerous discussions that have taken place in recent weeks, in particular commercial relations. We have a lot of relations with Turkey, but with Iran we are now waiting for a proper implementation of the nuclear agreement in order to perhaps come to a new situation in terms of sanctions. However, it is too early to say anything about this, perhaps in the next few weeks or months. As far as Saudi Arabia is concerned, you know that I sent a letter to the prime ministers of the three regions. There are not many problems with the Brussels Region, but I have already received an answer from the other two regions. The response of Flanders concerned the suspension of a possible license for arms delivery to Saudi Arabia and an analysis of FIT's origin of money for an investment in Antwerp. On the other hand, in the Walloon region, I have seen the reaction of the Prime Minister who continues the supply of arms to Saudi Arabia, albeit with an analysis. As far as I am concerned, we must have a proper dialogue with caution. I am doing this for the sake of a solution in Syria, Iraq and Yemen and also for the sake of human rights. As far as commercial activities are concerned, I can only take an initiative in the regions. I did, too. I have seen the reactions of the different regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u57	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic308x.u58	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Grovonius' 8138 has been withdrawn.
