ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u1	Minister, on July 8 and 9, with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, you participated in the North Atlantic Council Summit of Heads of State and Government in Warsaw. In a very long closing communiqué, it is stated in point 53, towards the end: "NATO's nuclear deterrence posture is also based, in part, on the nuclear weapons of the United States deployed forward in Europe". Hence, minister, my three questions. Could you clarify to me what the negotiators of these conclusions, of which you are, and knowing that this sentence has been savourily weighed or under-stressed, mean by this sentence? Does point 53 of the conclusions of the recent Atlantic Summit imply that Defence must provide for the maintenance of the illegal storage, in the eyes of international law, of American nuclear warheads B-61 on Kleine Brogel air base? These conclusions do not specify the precise period or duration envisaged for the maintenance of these "forward-deployed" weapons in Europe. What period of time has been considered in discussions with your Defence colleagues? This conclusion-revelation – this is the first time that a NATO Summit cites the US nuclear weapons deployed forward in Europe as such – has a very direct impact on the important upcoming market for your department: the purchase of the 34 fighter-bombers replacing the current F-16s. Does this NATO strategic posture in Warsaw imply the presence, in the future specifications, of a clause requiring the carrying of American nuclear weapons by the aircraft proposed by the five firms currently in competition? Is Defence working in this direction since we still do not have this specification?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u2	Madam President, Mr Hellings, until the conditions for the global elimination of nuclear weapons are met, NATO will remain a nuclear alliance with an effective, safe and well-protected deterrent capability. Our country has chosen to follow a realistic and pragmatic approach to nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. In accordance with the government agreement, Belgium, as a reliable NATO partner, agreed with the Alliance's strategic concept, which includes a policy of deterrence based on conventional and nuclear capabilities. With regard to the replacement of F-16 fighter aircraft, I repeat that none of the five companies currently have the dual-capable aircraft capability. The specifications are being finalized.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answers. The discussion in the Military Procurement Committee on the terms of reference will be very important, since if we mention the presence of nuclear weapons, it is a problem, and if we do not mention it, it is also a problem. We know that, discreetly or less discreetly when we see NATO's conclusions, we are talking about being able to continue to use nuclear deterrence, while your colleague in charge of Foreign Affairs is involved in discussions for long-term disarmament. You said that you agreed on long-term disarmament, but in fact Belgium takes decisions, participates in meetings where nuclear disarmament is not at all on the agenda. We must be able to bring speeches and actions closer together. As far as the pragmatic and realistic approach is concerned, I agree with what you are saying. For us, environmentalists, nuclear weapons are neither realistic nor pragmatic. I attended a meeting of the University of Defense in France, at the invitation of the French Parliament. This was about nuclear deterrence. The astronomical cost to France, which must modernise its arsenal, was at the heart of the discussions. The French Minister of Defence felt that this was going to be expensive, that it was going to be hard, but that it had to be done. I think nuclear deterrence is a weapon of the past and for realistic and pragmatic reasons, as you say, it would be good to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u4	Madam President, Minister, it was with great interest that I read your "Strategic Vision for Defence" which was my bedside book during the entire summer vacation. I have noticed that it is silent on the geographical location of military quarters, which will be reduced in the near future. Mr. Minister, page 44 of your document states that "it has been estimated that there has been a decrease in neighbourhoods in proportion to the move towards a defence of 25,000 full-time equivalents". Could you then tell me, according to this "first estimate", how much – so I'm not asking you where? – military quarters will soon have to close according to your vision?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u5	Madam Chair, Minister, my question is more specifically about a barracks, namely the Nivelles military pharmacy. I have already asked you many times on this subject and I had also asked for a visit to this important site with enormous potential in particular in terms of "aid to the Nation". Each member of the commission was able to see the expertise and quality of the work being done at the Nivelles military pharmacy. Today after the publication of your "Strategic Vision", my concern about its future and its location in the province of Walloon Brabant is acute. Indeed, in your document I was able to read that "three military tasks of a essentially civilian nature could be entrusted to a private or public actor, without impact on the Defence engagement". Among these three tasks, we find the Defence's ability to produce and store drugs, which is obviously the core business of the military pharmacy. You continue by saying that "Defence can disengage from the capacity to produce medicines because of the limited operational relevance of this activity and the sufficient opportunities to provide for this need through civilian contracts". In short, this is, again, a manifest desire to privatize an existing and yet effective capacity of our army, a regal function, I must remind you. Minister, do you confirm your intention to achieve Defence's disengagement in the production and storage of drugs? Do you confirm that you want to close the Nivelles site? If so, according to which calendar? Can you explain why you are advocating for an outsourcing of media logistics support? Do you have any leads as to which public or private actors could take over this management of the military pharmacy? Have you consulted your colleague in charge of Public Health before publishing this strategic vision? Finally, can you tell me what impact this decision will have on the personnel currently working in the military pharmacy? I hope, minister, that I will not have a language of wood today, that I will receive a clear answer because I dare not imagine that you do not already have this implementation plan that will have to be presented to the government in the near future. Both the military personnel working at the military pharmacy and the entire vicinity of this pharmacy deserve an answer today. I very much hope so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u6	Before the holiday, Minister, your plan for the future of the Belgian Defence Department, the strategic vision, appeared. That plan sets out some lines for the future. For example, staff costs will be increased from 78 to 49 % by 2030. In concrete terms, it means that by 2030 there will be 25 000 full-time equivalents within the Defence staff envelope. The strategic vision is that the different lines of action will be implemented in concrete implementation plans as soon as possible. The fall in staff will undoubtedly also result in a falling demand for infrastructure. In the field of barracks, the government will have to make choices. Will we completely reject buildings or will the government choose to rent parts of barracks? The impact of any decision on this is enormous for the military who are employed in those barracks. Therefore, it seems to me only natural that the defence personnel should receive short-term answers. When will the concrete implementation plans follow? What is the current state of affairs? Is there another debate in committee on your strategic vision? Since the preparation of the plan has been ongoing for some time now, it seems that no closures of barracks are being considered. Given that there is a certain amount of concern among the staff, I would like to know whether or not you confirm it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u7	Minister, like my excellent colleague, the "brilliant" Pirlot, I would like to ask you a question about your strategic vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u8	It's good to be lucid!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u9	I therefore wonder about the future of military activities in my city, Tournai. Indeed, you are aware that the Ruquoy barracks in Tournai hosts an important logistics training centre which is part of the "support" training competence centre. If the measures stemming from your strategic vision are aimed at centralizing different services, especially those related to training, I fear the worst. As noted in an excellent article published in the daily L'Avenir on 14 September, there is a real risk that the whole of the Centre de compétence de la formation "supplement" will be regrouped in Puisie, Flemish Brabant, which already hosts three of the five training courses proposed. In this case, Wallonia, the province of Hainaut and, more particularly, Tournai would be the great forgotten ones and would see the students and the staff leaving to the north of the country. In response to a parliamentary question I asked you on 13 July, you announced to me that a plan for the future of military quarters would be submitted to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible. I therefore allow myself today to ask you once again when this plan will be presented. Will Tournai be the victim of the centralization of services and, more specifically, of the "support" Training Competence Centre? Does not the Ruquoy Barracks, which has benefited from investments in the renovation and development of buildings, meet the optimal conditions for continuing to host logistics training? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u10	Minister, the long-term strategic vision requested in the coalition agreement is there. It has become an ambitious and balanced document, with which, as it stands, the work can now begin. The document announces the first concrete steps within four months of the presentation of the vision, with a draft military programme law or a plan on the future geographical implantation of the quarters. Furthermore, we read that the implementation of the strategic vision can be followed by a board table which should provide an overview of the decisions to be taken and their timing. Minister, can you give a brief overview of the main areas in which concrete steps can be expected this autumn, now that the vision is there? The presentation of the vision has been delayed in relation to what was announced in the coalition agreement. Do you expect this to have an impact on its implementation? In which of the areas announced in the vision can concrete decisions still be expected in this legislature? Finally, is it possible, within the framework of transparent governance, to give our committee regular access to the announced board table?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I confirm everything in the strategic vision. I signed the document and confirmed its content. I can tell you that today, as yesterday and tomorrow, the Defence Office is working hard with the other government partners and with the Defence Staff to concrete all strategic vision action points through specific implementation dossiers. Implementation projects will be launched this year in the various areas of strategic vision, including competence development, structures, personnel and reserve, interdepartmental cooperation, medical policy, operational policy, international military cooperation, capacity development, outsourcing, infrastructure and industrial research. This should ensure that a maximum number of the action items of the strategic vision can be implemented or at least set in motion in this legislative period. As announced in the strategic vision, the government-wide nature of the implementation of the strategic vision will be ensured by informing the Defence Policy Coordination Working Group on the implementation projects. I am, of course, always prepared to debate and explain in committee when the decisions are taken. In addition, there are the many material files that are discussed in any case in the Committee for Defence, the Committee for the Succession of Foreign Shipments and the Committee for Army Purchases. The implementation dossier on the evolution of the future geographical distribution of quarters is a priority for the government. The government partners and I understand very well that this file is very close to the attention of the defence staff. I would like to stress to the report that it is not my ambition to close anything. I am not pleased to announce that there should be a 15-minute closure here or there. But the facts are the following. For the evolution of the current 31 FTPs within Defence towards the 25,000 in the future, the strategic vision has mainly taken into account the downsizing of support structures through rationalization and outsourcing while maintaining, or even increasing, capabilities for operational deployments. In the strategic vision, we have set ambition levels that are equivalent to what we are doing today and even beyond them. In other words, we will have to make a firm commitment to effective operational deployment in the future. In this context, rationalisation and externalisation or outsourcing are aimed at supporting processes. The future geographic distribution of Defence will take into account several factors, including the provisions of the strategic vision and the government agreement, staff well-being and political negotiations at the government level. This has an impact on the neighbourhoods needed in the future and their location. We have now developed a proposal on this subject in consultation with the Defence Staff. On the basis of that proposal, a final political decision will soon be taken on the evolution of the geographical distribution. It is important that it is about the deadline for the strategic vision, i.e. until 2030. It's between now and 2030. This means, of course, that we have not only taken into account our ambitions and capacities for the future, but have also taken into account, among other things, the demographic structure of the various quarters. It is not my ambition to make anyone in Defense unhappy, because at the end of his period he should be deployed in any other quarter of an hour. We will certainly avoid large movements of people, as may have happened occasionally in the past. In the context of the overall downsizing, the general philosophy for outsourcing policy is as follows: if there is no impact on operationality, activities for which outsourcing to the civil or public sector would be a more efficient alternative will no longer be pursued within the Defence or at least not independently. In a sector such as, for example, the pharmaceutical industry, which is well established in Belgium, the possibilities for outsourcing certainly exist. The future of the Nivelles medical unit is part of the implementation plan for the neighborhoods and will be known after the political negotiations. In the strategic vision, it is mentioned that the potential disengagement of Defence's drug production capacity will of course be coordinated with the Public Health FPS. The future of the neighbourhoods of Tournai (Ruquoy and Saint John) is also part of the political discussions, which will lead to the definitive plan on the evolution of the geographical distribution of Defence. In the proposal of my firm and the General Staff, there is the evolution of the competence management, and therefore also the logistic training, according to the future needs of a smaller but more operational Defence. As I said earlier, I am available for a debate and explanation in committee on the strategic vision, very much so, because the implementation of the strategic vision transcends the current government and therefore I would like to have the broadest possible support for it. But you will understand that I cannot anticipate the difficult decisions that the government will shortly take on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u12	Before we start with the replies, I would ask that, even if the moods sometimes get high, talk as quietly as possible for the good of the interpreters.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u13	I'm not an emotional person, Madam President. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u14	I don't have a heart? Thank you, colleagues. I come to page 44 of your vision, since you explained to me that you confirmed everything in it. I therefore read well: "It has been taken into account, according to an initial estimate". So here's my question: has there ever been an estimate made by the General Staff of any neighbourhoods? How many neighbourhoods could be affected by this decrease? This is in your vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u15	This will be a political decision, which I cannot talk about today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u16	So there was a first estimate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u17	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u18	Thank you. It's interesting to confirm what's in it, but I'm particularly interested in everything that's not in it. It's often much more interesting. I am not going to go back to the echoes of the discussions on a possible linguistic distribution at the level of closures. Simply, when closures take place and there is a desire for centralization, this often results in a deterioration in the working conditions of the military, in terms of family life and travel. My fear is that a strong centralisation will make Flanders more attractive for commitments, because its territory is smaller than that of the Walloon Region. I would also say that the closure of barracks has an economic and social impact that should not be underestimated for the living areas concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u19	I have forgotten to say that, if there are neighbourhood closures, we will of course discuss with the social partners the measures to be taken to achieve the possible relocations in the most balanced way possible, without social drama.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u20	I would like to draw attention to one last point. When closures occur, serious problems of site conversion sometimes arise. You know very well, as I do, that we have several military areas which are located in Natura 2000 sites where almost nothing can be done in the event of conversion. I think that all this deserves further attention, having said that, Madam President, without emotion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u21	Minister, I am disappointed with your answer, specifically for the Nivelles pharmacy. In the case of the Nivelles pharmacy, you could have gone directly much further, moved forward and be very clear. There's a little bit of a double speech. I'm told there will be no closure at this point, and then I'm told there will be a closure, a redistribution, etc. Here, things are clear, you have confirmed your strategic vision. In your strategic vision, the message is clear about the privatization of the production and storage of medicines. And that is indeed the core business of the military pharmacy. I'll put the question to you. Will the military pharmacy close or not? You can still be clear and precise! There is an important issue for the region, Minister. Be clear! You are saying clearly that there will be privatization of this sector, will the military pharmacy close or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u22	I'm not giving you an answer. I don't get ahead of decisions the government has to make. So I will not comment on that, Mr Crusnière.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u23	It must be understood that both the military on the ground and the local, political and economic actors are concerned. I will not repeat what my colleague has said very well here, that is to say, that this will have to be done in coordination. On the deadline, we did not have an answer either. So, everyone has been in the expectation for some time and will continue to be. I sincerely hope that, like what has been done for the important RER issue, there will be a mobilization of all the political actors in Walloon Brabant to fight against this closure. You may say that this will not be the case, but you feel very well that its future is clearly under threat. So I also hope that our Prime Minister will be mindful of the risk of closing this barracks in his province.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u24	In fact, Minister, you have not yet given an answer. You replied to previous questions that the government would soon decide. The concern of the military remains. I understand, of course, that this needs to be looked at with the necessary care and that you must consider and take into account all kinds of factors that you have just listed. I hope it will be a priority issue for the government. After all, I can no longer talk about months of concern, because in the meantime it has been over for more than a year. Since 2014, it has been stated that decisions will be taken. You have still not answered questions about possible closures today, so I hope to be clear on that very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u25	Minister, the "great mute" has never borne his name as well as today. The president asks us not to be emotional. How do you want me to be when you tell me that, anyway, these are political decisions you can't talk about? So I find it difficult to feel some emotion in this regard. I heard you talking about personal well-being. I don't know if you ever physically visited the barracks in Tournai. If this is not the case, I cordially invite you to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u26	I've visited all the barracks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u27	So you may have realized that this barracks is in an impeccable state. I will, of course, soon ask you a question about the investments that have been made there. I have also often heard that this government would not make a community, but you will find it difficult to make me swallow this pill if tomorrow we close Tournai to go to the Flemish Brabant. I will not repeat what my colleagues have said about the economic development of a city if such closure is decided. You're telling me that contacts will be made with the authorities. I suppose it's about the communal authorities. However, scalded cat fears cold water. Last time in Saint John, we split the barracks. I was called on a Wednesday to tell me that the next day we were going to settle there eight hundred migrants. If it's your way – when I say "you", I'm speaking to the government – to discuss, you're very suspicious that I'm afraid of the worst. I therefore take note that I have not received an answer. This will certainly not reassure all the staff present in Tournai.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u28	I have heard a very clear answer, Minister. I have heard that a lot of action points will be implemented, not next year, but already this year, in 2016. That reassures me. There's a plan and it won't end up in a drawer. I also think that your promise that you will be transparent and that the debate can be held here and in the other competent committees, which is very positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u29	Madam Minister, Minister, before the recess in this committee, in response to a question from a colleague, you have provided tables with an overview of the language distribution at the higher levels of the army. At the highest degrees there are a few French speakers deficit according to the traditional 60/40 ratio. As you know, the French speakers have been raving about this for years. In fact, a real working party was set up in the previous legislature to produce a report of no less than 217 pages on this issue. However, the fact that there is a much more fragile language imbalance for the lower levels of the army, albeit to the detriment of the Dutch speakers, seems to be something no one was awake to. I have reviewed the table you distributed in June in detail, with the figures showing the evolution of the percentage of military personnel per degree since 1 January 2015 until 1 May 2016. That table shows a number of things. For officers, the ratio was 61 % Dutch speaking, 39 % French speaking. For the Petty Officers, your table shows that there is an evolution from 58 % Dutch to 57 %. In barely a year and four months there are therefore already 1 % fewer Dutch-speaking petty officers. Finally, your table shows that for volunteers, the proportion of Dutch speakers has fallen from 53 % to 51 %. This is therefore a decline of not less than 2% in a short period of time. I know that there are no language frameworks for the army, but it is generally accepted, after a political agreement, to subject these jobs to the general ratio of 60% of Dutch speakers and 40% of French speakers. I note that the Dutch-speaking side is far removed from this relationship, especially for Dutch-speaking petty officers and even more for volunteers. Unfortunately, I also note that there has been a decline in the last year and a half, and that surprises me. Mr Minister, that is why we have the following specific questions. Are the proportions true as shown in the table? Can you also make available the figures of full-time equivalents? Can you explain how it is that the relations between the petty officers and the men are falling to the detriment of the Dutch speakers and that the number of Dutch speakers has fallen so much? Finally, what will you do to reverse the trend against the Flemings in the short term? How will you ensure that a balance is also achieved for the lower degrees? Within what timeframe do you consider it realistic that the balance is achieved effectively? I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u30	Madam President, Mrs Pas, when comparing different tables to derive evolutions, this always involves a risk if the denominators mentioned above are not properly considered. The tables distributed at the committee meeting on 29 June cannot be compared with other tables. The table of 1 January 2015 included all military inside and outside budget and inside and outside envelope, while the figures of 1 May 2016, distributed in committee, relate only to the military within budget and within envelope. Again, these figures cannot be compared and no evolutions can be derived from them, because the population is different. Is there a problem, as you say? Well, I have requested the figures for military personnel within budget and within envelope before 1 January 2015. The ratios between 1 January 2015 and 1 May 2016 have remained unchanged. So there is no evolution noticeable; which is also not good; there might have been a different evolution. In the case of officers, the figure is 61 % of Dutch speakers with 39 % of French speakers. For the petty officers, the figure is 57 % of Dutch speakers compared with 43 % of French speakers. As far as volunteers are concerned, 51 percent of Dutch speakers are speaking to 49 percent of French speakers. The percentages are identical if one would count per individual or per full-time equivalent. There are, of course, small fluctuations due to retirements, recruitments and departures on request or by dismissal, but that is the figures after the decimal place. I can therefore confirm that we have not established any evolution and that we have been looking for the causes. It is true that recruitment in Flanders has been more difficult for a few years than in Wallonia. Defence is therefore also making more efforts in Flanders to attract applicants and fill in the open places than in Wallonia, but it must of course always be taken into account that there are frameworks to be filled in for the respective battalions. In the longer term, the new structure, in implementation of the strategic vision, based on 25 000 staff full-time equivalents, will be developed, of course with respect for the non-written language regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u31	Mr Minister, my first question was indeed whether the figures are correct and whether I can compare the tables. I welcome your clarification, but unfortunately I am not happy with the figures you are giving. After all, there is still no improvement. You indicate a number of causes. I would like to support you, because stagnation is also a decline, people say. There should be improvement. It is a problem that has been on the rise for a long time and should be tackled as a matter of priority. I am free to support you in this with a motion of recommendation, Minister, in such a way as to give you the necessary support within the government to take all the necessary measures to ensure that the imbalance is eliminated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u32	Minister, unlike Mrs Pas, I am pleased with your answer. There is indeed no positive evolution, but there is no negative either. So your starting point was wrong, Mrs Pas. You have also realised this and are apparently also trying to amend your motion to that effect. You have also confirmed that efforts are being made, Minister, to tackle the problem. We are confident that this will happen, and that is why we are tabling a simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u33	Mr Buysrogge, you seem to be suddenly joining my question. The fact that one can take the floor for a simple motion without agreeing to a question on the subject is obviously something new in the Rules of Procedure. In addition, I note that you are quickly satisfied. The starting point of my question was very correct, in the sense that there is a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u34	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u35	My question was whether the deteriorating figures were correct, but the starting point was that there was a problem. Unfortunately, I have to say that the Minister's answer shows that the problem is still there until today. I am not satisfied as quickly as you and I encourage the Minister to take additional measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u36	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Minister for Defence, with responsibility for Civil Service, - having regard to the allocation key 60 % N/40 % F for the distribution of military relations with the Defence Department; - whereas, as far as men are concerned, there is barely 51% Dutch speaking and 49% French speaking, asks the Minister for Defence, with responsibility for Civil Service to take all necessary measures to reduce the linguistic imbalance to the detriment of the Dutch speakers in the army from the petty officers and men in the short term in order to reach a ratio of 60% N/40 % F at these levels." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Minister of Defence, in charge of the Public Service, - having regard to the 60 % N/40 % F allocation key with regard to the distribution of military jobs in defence; - considering that, in the case of troops, only 51% are Dutch-speaking and 49% are French-speaking, asks the Minister of Defence, in charge of the Public Service to take all necessary measures to end, in the short term, the linguistic imbalance to the detriment of Dutch speakers in the army, for non-commissioned officers and troops, with a view to reaching the ratio of 60% N/40 % F at these levels as well." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Peter Buysrogge and Mr Damien Thiéry. A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Peter Buysrogge and Damien Thiéry. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u37	Minister, with the Olympic Games over, we can only be proud of the results of Team Belgium. Among these Belgian sportsmen were 5 elite military sportsmen, who included 21. In this way, Defence encourages high-performance athletes through this title, which has existed since 2004, allowing the receiving member to focus on the practice of his or her sport. Their quality as an elite sportsman Defence allowed them to prepare for this event as best they could because their sports career takes precedence over military aspects, subject to the respect of certain statutory constraints. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. What evaluation do you draw in the aftermath of the Rio Olympic Games from the SED title? What are your goals and budgets in the coming years? Is the number of elite athletes likely to increase in the future? Indeed, I am concerned about the future of this important title, which has borne fruit in the past (especially on the image of Defence) because your strategic vision is silent on this point. You see I read it. It's a passion. In addition, we know your intentions to refocus our army almost exclusively on combat tasks. You can read on page 125 of your vision that "sports training and the training of horeca personnel are examples of these trainings without military specificity". Does this vision endanger this status and what will be its consequences in the perspective of future olympiads?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u38	Minister, Defence sent a Belgian delegation of five soldiers to the Rio Olympic Games. Those top athletes have all done a great job. Defence has 21 top athletes who have followed military basic training before joining their unit. There are currently 30 places for top athletes. Defence supports the top athletes and offers the necessary budgets. What's the defense evaluation after the Rio Olympics? Will the DOD continue to adopt the same approach in the coming years, including budgetary ones? At the moment, there are 30 places for top athletes in Defense. There are currently 21 seats filled. What actions may be taken to fill in the other places? Over the last five years, the financial support provided by the Defence Department amounted to just EUR 800 000. What budget are we planning for the coming years? My last question is linked to the strategic vision. What impact does your strategic vision have on the status of top athletes?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u39	Madam President, Mr Pirlot, congratulations, it seems that you have read the document completely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u40	It didn't help me sleep. On the contrary, it kind of woke me up in the middle of the night.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u41	As you already know, the results of our five military athletes at the Olympic Games are exemplary. There are two Olympic graduates, i.e. they are in the top 8 of the rankings. And the results in the top 16 are brilliant. Despite their young age, our elite athletes have made themselves known as the world's top sport. An evaluation of the concept of "elite sports" in defence will be completed by the end of this year. As far as the number of athletes is concerned, priority will still be given to quality for quantity with the ultimate aim of optimising the concept for the next four years. At the moment, Mr Top, 21 out of 30 seats have been filled. However, as I have already said, it is about quality rather than quantity. The excellent results and the good cooperation with BOIC and the federations convince me to maintain the necessary funds for those ambassadors of Defence. In fact, I think that is so important that Friday I will receive our top athletes in the cabinet, together with the CHOD, to thank them. By the way, last week we again became world champion jumping. So we will thank them personally for their achievements and we will also talk to them personally about how we can help them even better in what they want to achieve.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answers. At the level of the budget envelope, there is no particular fear.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u43	There was a question about sports education. The elite sport aspect should not be mixed with education. These are different things.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased that you want to provide funds for top athletes in the future, but my question may have been misplaced. It's not my question to fill those places anyway. Of course, we must pay attention to quality, but I am convinced that there is sufficient quality in our country to find candidates to fill those places.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u45	We need to be clear on that. I am absolutely for top sports and top athletes in the Defense Department, but they are also military. That's specific. They're ambassadors of their profession.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u46	I agree with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u47	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gerkens' 13231 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u48	Mr. Minister, on 4 August De Standaard reported on the basis of information from a military source that the Belgian army would like to have mini drones by the end of 2017 to give the ground forces eyes in the air. The army would like to cooperate with Luxembourg for the project. According to a specialist in Defense, the small drones could fly 10 to 25 kilometers away. The purchase would have a value of several million euros and could be closed this year. A first operational commitment would be possible in mid-2018. The type that Luxembourg currently uses are the mini drones AirRobot 100. Those drones have a range of 500 meters. Since 2002, our Belgian Defence has been using drones on various assignments. Those drones, type B-Hunter, can fly a hundred kilometers from the control station for about ten hours and at an altitude of 2 300 meters. The difference in capacity between the B-Hunter and the AirRobot 100 is therefore quite large. Mr. Secretary, can you confirm the information in the paper? Will the AirRobot 100 replace the B-Hunter in the short term? What price tag is attached to that? The AirRobot 100 can fly 10 to 25 kilometers, the B-Hunter about a hundred kilometers. The AirRobot 100 can fly one to three hours, the B-Hunter ten hours. The AirRobot 100 has a range of 500 meters, the B-Hunter has a range of 2 300 meters. Why does the DOD choose a type that, compared to the B-Hunter, has different limitations? Will that not cause problems in practice? The AirRobot 100 has a range of about 500 meters and that is within the range of many guns and light weapons. Does it mean that whoever sends the drones is within that effective range? Doesn't that endanger the military in question? Secondly, since 2002, Defence has been deploying drones for various tasks, including reconnaissance flights during operations, the detection of marine pollution in the North Sea and assistance to forest managers. The strategic vision for Defence foresees a purchase of six drones for an estimated amount of 490 million euros. In addition, the vision also provides for a purchase of two tactical drones. The use of drones can also be very useful for the Navy. In the Netherlands, the M-frigate Van Amstel uses a consumer drone. The drone was first deployed during a Frontex operation in the Aegean Sea. Thanks to the use of the drone one can see from the frigate whether or not there are people in a boat. The used drone on the Van Amstel is the Typhoon Q500 and provides razor sharp photocopiers and videocopiers. The possibilities to explore in advance are, of course, an added value for the safety, efficiency and speed of different operations. Besides, that drone has the advantage of being easy to handle. There doesn't need to be a specially trained team on board. The prices of such drones vary between 500 and 2000 euros each. The possibilities of such drones are very spacious. In addition to exploring, one could also consider using drones for border and port surveillance, customs, coastguard and coastal rescue services. Moreover, the use of drones in the long term could bring with it a lot of efficiency gains. Flying a drone is a lot cheaper than dropping a ship over the same distance. Does our DOD have consumer drones in her possession? Are you aware of the use of consumer drones by Dutch colleagues? Have you already had contact with your Dutch colleague on the deployment of drones at sea in the framework of the Belgian-Dutch cooperation in the Navy? What tasks will the MALE drones and the tactical drones perform? When will the drones be purchased and delivered? Is the use of consumer drones possible as a possible temporary faster solution? What budget do you provide for the tactical drones?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u49	Madam President, Mr Top, I shall begin with the answer to your second question. I can tell you now that this is extremely difficult. Apparently, you're assuming a number of elements related to drones, which I suspect they're being reappraised. Technically, we don't have any consumer drones in the Defense Department at the moment, unless someone brings such a device from home. The DOD doesn't use it. The use of tactical drones for maritime operations is closely followed by the maritime component, including by analysis of recent experiences at the Dutch frigate Van Amstel. Together with the Dutch Navy, the use of tactical drones for maritime operations is being prepared in the framework of the replacement program for frigates. The strategic vision foresees six million euros for 2024 for the purchase of tactical drones for the Navy component. These drones possess sensors that transmit images directly to the ship in support of the situational image, of the tactical decisions, or at a later stage as evidence. It is important that tactical drones can be used for assignments in a 50-nautical-mile radius of the ship. A nautical mile is 1,852 km. Today we do that with helicopters. This drone can also be used for the identification of surface targets, the detection of submarines, or to measure the damage caused after an attack. It is important, Mr Top, to know which type of drone is spoken of. You compare types of Unmaned Aerial Systems (UAS) that are not really comparable to what we call the MALE drone, or the Medium Altitude Long Endurance UAS. In addition, there is the mini-UAS. For the record, a MALE is an unmanned aircraft with fixed wings. The B-Hunter is one of those. It has sensors, communication devices, command and control, and analysis systems for processing the collected data. These aircraft operate at altitudes between three and ten kilometers, so significantly higher than the routes of rotary wing drones. They can be used at very large distances from the ground station, and for long periods, up to more than 24 hours. That is what we have in mind when we talk about the MALE drone. This requires a very high level of integration and coordination within airspace, which is quite obvious. Such systems guarantee and increase the situational awareness of the command and it is true that our B-Hunters, the two first systems, will be acquired or ordered in 2021. These will be used to build new capacity. In a later phase, by 2030, we want to buy four other MALE systems by joining, if possible, the Eurodrone European Development Programme, which is running today but is not yet in place. Eurodrone is a program drawn by the Germans. The totality of the programme, as you said, is budgeted at EUR 490 million. Once again, it is a question of a lot of money and it has been discussed in committee before, but it is not just about the plane but about all the systems because one wants to master it for a bit. The mini drone, i.e. mini-UAS, is an unmanned harness with a weight of around 3 kg, a ground station and the associated means of communication. The primary user of this system is the land component. The flight time for this system is limited to two hours and it has a range of 15 km, so beyond 500 m, what we have in mind. The device is interesting because of its dimensions and its weight because it is portable to the staff and can be used as a force protection of the units deployed. However, given the range, there is little risk that the operator would be within the effective firing distance. So we are talking about a distance of up to 15 km. The purchase of mini-UAS has a budget of nine million euros and its first instalment is 4.5 million with liquidation in 2021, the second half is with liquidation in 2024. Its acquisition, for which we work closely with Luxembourgers, among others, should be launched this year. As I said, the dossier seeks cooperation with Luxembourg and the Netherlands, i.e. at Benelux level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification. Do I understand correctly that the MALE is replacing the B-Hunter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u51	Yeah, but he's gonna do a lot more than that. He'll be armed. (...) We will not buy them with weapons, but they will be armed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u52	To my first two questions about the mini drones, you have given a clear answer. My thoughts on the article on the scope are therefore not well founded.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u53	Mr Top, I can only observe that there are several countries experimenting, including in operations. They then buy systems of a few thousand euros, with which one takes photos above the field, but that is not what we have in mind in the long term with the increase in the situation awareness. Of course, it's nice to see a drone fly, but as far as the real operationality is concerned...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u54	That's what I want to do. You have clearly indicated the differences between the mini drones and the large drone, but you also referred to the strategic vision and timing of the purchase. We know that the evolution of drones does not stand still. Neither does the technology stand still. It's evolving fast. The Dutch colleagues have used a consumer drone from a frigate. The cost of this is minimal. Can it not be useful to use the mini drones in specific situations where we deploy our ships, for example in the Mediterranean? If those drones can be useful for certain detections, they can be useful for us, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u55	As I said, there are countries that are experimenting. We choose to continue with the B-Hunter until (...). We will shortly send a request for government information to our neighbouring countries to ask what they are doing today and to see to what extent we can get into their programmes. You ask if we will buy consumer drones to experiment. We have so much urgency and so much urgency in our budget that perhaps we will do some other business first.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u56	Minister, you recently decided to appoint some chief officers as part of a number of replacements for pensions and promotions. In total, it is about ten top positions. Each of those ten top positions will be performed by a man in the future. The coalition agreement of 10 October 2014 contains the following passage: "Defension will make further efforts to improve diversity, in particular on gender, within the military. With targeted recruitment campaigns, recruitment will ensure that society is reflected in Defence personnel." In 40 years, only one woman has become a general. At present, only one woman is Brig-Gen and only 8% of the staff are female. However, more women in the army can offer added value for the organisation. As the coalition agreement points out, recruitment is very important. The current gender policy is too non-binding. Minister, what steps have you taken over the last two years to break the glass ceiling in the Defense Department? What efforts have you already made in the field of targeted recruitment campaigns? What are the results of that? Is the current selection committee composed of both men and women? If not, are there plans to change that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u57	Mr Top, you are very concerned about the top positions in the Defense Department. I'm saying that now with a whip, but I mean it. I'll explain later. Equality between men and women is a matter of great importance. All places for promotion are open to both men and women. In 2015, we conducted an intensive information campaign in the framework of 40 years of women at Defense, just to stimulate recruitment. Among other things, a cinema film was produced and an article published in several newspapers, specifically about women in the army. From the point of view of recruitment, visual communication is always given a proportional place to men and women, so we try to ensure diversity in this area too. Those efforts resulted in an increase in the number of female applicants enrolled from 8.2 % in 2014 to 9.2 % in 2015. That's not much, but it's an increase. For 2016, an increase in the number of registered female applicants in the category of officers was observed by 3 % and in the category of Petty Officers by 3.5 % compared to 2015, and I must say that this will not automatically lead to an increase in female recruitment of the same order of magnitude. It is too early for concrete figures for this year. The recruitment year 2016 is still ongoing. For the composition of the Promotion Committee, please refer to the Ministerial Decision of 31 March 1971 on the composition and operation of the Promotion Committees. I have already answered a number of questions about this in committee, but I will explain it again. A number of permanent members shall sit on such a promotion committee on the basis of their duties or degrees. That's usually about chief officers. Since there are no women in posts or in posts with the required degrees today, they cannot be a permanent member of the committees. The Committees shall also include a varying number of temporary members, appointed by lot. For the 2016 Promotion Committees for the officers, five women have been designated by lot from the 144 temporary members, who have sat on the various committees. Having said that, Mr Top, I assume that it is absolutely my ambition to appoint ladies in top positions before I act as minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u58	Minister, despite the efforts to recruit more women to the Defense Department, you have to admit that the increases remain minimal. We are all convinced here of the need for more women in defence, but we must also achieve results. You are talking about an increase of 3% for the officers and 3.5 percent for the petty officers. There is also an increase with the incorporations. What worries me, however, is your reference to the Royal Decree of 1971, on the basis of which the Promotion Committee is set up by office and grade. You have added that if there are no female superior officers, women cannot therefore sit on the committee as permanent members. However, women may, by chance, become temporarily members of such a committee by drawing lots. Well, if there are very few women in the Defense Department, then they must be very lucky to even be a temporary member of one promotion committee. That's never gonna solve the problem. Minister, if you fail to warm up enough women for a career in the Defense Department, will you not consider adapting the Royal Decree so that more women are part of the Promotion Committees? I am not saying that more women will be promoted; that is another matter. However, it is already a step towards achieving more gender equality in the army.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u59	Mr Top, I would like to draw your attention to your suggestion that you have doubts about the objectivity of the members of the committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u60	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u61	That is certainly not the case. The Promotion Committees have a long tradition in the Defense Department. There is also always a very precise preparation ahead of it. What we need to do is put women on the path so that they get better evaluations. As for the composition of such a committee, there is a preponderance of temporary members vis-à-vis permanent members, except for the generals. The generals make the generals. I would like to give directives and formulate a policy in this area, but once we start working with quotas, everything becomes much more difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u62	Minister, I have no doubt whatsoever about the competence of the members of the Promotion Committees. The reality today is that there is still a glass ceiling, when ladies apply or are candidates to promote. You may have to ask the ladies in question themselves, there are some people here who are asking what an impression it would be if they knew that there were no top positions for women in the army today. If one wants to go for a promotion or a job application, one must appear before a committee in which only men are present, which is independent of the fact that they do their selection work very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u63	Madam President, Minister, Italian Foreign and Defence Ministers presented this summer the proposal to create a Schengen della difesa or a Schengen area for defence. According to the Italian ministers, the disappearance of Britain as a major military force from the EU opens up new prospects for the creation of a common European defence. It would increase our operational capabilities in the fight against terrorism, lead to a more efficient use of our joint defence resources and demonstrate as a political signal that the European project is alive and well and further deepened. The Italians propose that, in the first phase, Schengen should be supported by a limited group of countries, in particular the founding fathers of the Union. In addition, on 11 September, the Defence Ministers of Germany and France, respectively Ursula von der Leyen and Jean-Yves Le Drian, sent a plan to establish a Schengen in the field of defence to the EU Foreign Service. The document states that, in view of the deteriorating security environment, it is high time to strengthen mutual solidarity and European defence capabilities in order to protect European citizens more effectively as well as European borders. There is talk of the creation of a new joint headquarters from which EU missions will be led. The Eurocorps in Strasbourg would assist the European Council in the future to speed up its efforts. Minister, what is the state of our government's view on the establishment of a Schengen in the field of defence? In last week's plenary session, you had already noted that you are in favour of a unified defence if the output is sufficiently large. How does your strategic vision fit into a European story? Is there any possibility of making any adjustments? Our country is a remarkable absentee throughout that debate. In the past, however, our country was always part of the initiators in order to achieve a European defence union. Why didn't our country take the lead on that initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u64	Madam President, Minister, it is true that Brussels is already a very specialized place in the field of defence. There is the Queen Elisabeth Quarter with the Defence Staff, the Neder-Over-Heembeek Military Hospital, the Royal Army Museum, the Royal Military School and obviously the NATO headquarters, since 1967, for which there has always been a strong federal and regional involvement. A new element, the head of European diplomacy, Federica Mogherini, calls for the creation of a joint civilian and military headquarters in Brussels as a priority of the strategy for relaunching the European defence project. According to her, this could become the nucleus around which a common defence structure would be built. If the capital of our country were chosen as the bearer of this common defence structure, it would of course be excellent news for us. You had already given your opinion on this following a question from Sebastian Pirlot. However, I would like to ask three additional questions. Following Federica Mogherini's statement, I would like to know not only your point of view but also whether you or the Prime Minister have made contacts. If you did, what are these contacts? If you didn't, will you take it? What means could you put in place so that this excellent idea of our European Union Foreign Minister can become a reality? What are the possible contacts with the Brussels Region? My second type of question concerns more broadly the future of the different military districts in the Brussels-Capital Region. In August 2015, you indicated that your department was starting a study on the future of the Defence Staff in Evere and that contacts would have been made with the municipality of Zaventem to present a new headquarters project. What about it? Is the Brussels future of headquarters location always well guaranteed? Finally, have you started a dialogue with the Brussels Region on the future of the site of the current NATO headquarters as part of its masterplan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u65	Madam President, Minister Federica Mogherini, High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Vice-President of the European Commission, presented last June her report on European security entitled "Shared Vision, Common Action: A Stronger Europe". A Global Strategy for the European Union's Foreign and Security Policy".This document looks at the European Union's security and defence policy turning point in order to generate a true shared vision, a common action for a stronger Europe. According to Ms Mogherini: "The purpose, the very existence of our Union, is called into question. Yet our citizens and the world need a strong European Union as never before." She adds: "In these difficult times, a strong Union is a Union that defines a strategy, shares a vision and acts together... And this is even more true after the British referendum. It is the development of military and civilian capabilities that will determine the strategic autonomy of the European Union." A timetable for the implementation of the various actions is under way and should, if not already done, be submitted to the Member States and the various European institutions, in order, I quote: "To increase the capacity of the European Union to be active and operational". In military matters, we are talking about the potential activation of the battlegroups, the establishment of permanent cooperation in the field of defence, through a vanguard of voluntary countries. The timetable referred to would project operational results as early as next spring. Minister, can you tell me more about this? What is the timetable that can reasonably be expected in this regard? Is it simply a catalogue of measures to strengthen cooperation or is it the result of a genuine European will? If so, do you see in this approach a premise for this famous European army that some have been calling for for many years? What is your opinion on the matter? Do you think our National Defence should or can be part of this European initiative? If so, in what way, with what budget and with what concrete involvement? At the same time, what is your opinion on the challenges of resilience to the East and the South, and on the Commission's external investment plan, which should help to support poor countries and thus work on the intrinsic causes of migration, and a fortiori wars, of course? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u66	Mr Minister, since the question has been sufficiently raised, I come immediately to my questions. What do you think are the innovative elements in the strategy that could lead to a breakthrough in the field of European defence? What concrete steps do you see in the development of a European defence, and when do you think they can be taken? Has there been any prospect of new major defence projects in which Belgium can play an important role? What initiatives does our government intend to take in this respect? What do you think will be the potential impact of the Brexit on the strategy?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u67	Madam Chair, Minister, the framework has been sufficiently set. I come directly to my five questions. The deployment of battlegroups could never be achieved. Does the problem lie in the governance of the common security and defence policy? Should we finally create a Council of Defence Ministers of the European Union and a European HQ capable of planning and conducting civilian and military missions? Or, as Mr. Pirlot said, should the very model of the Battle Groups, too demanding and expensive, be reviewed? In order to deepen cooperation in the field of transport or military medical services, should the permanent structured cooperation enshrined in the Lisbon Treaty be used, or are Member States, at first, more attracted by cooperation outside the framework of the Treaty of the European Union? I note from the point of view of military transport that the A330 MRTT has seduced the Netherlands and Luxembourg. They ordered two of these tankers, which are expected to be delivered in 2020. Knowing that following your strategic vision, it was possible that we might be interested too, the question is why we didn't match these orders. The consolidation of a European defence industry: it is a key area, in terms of technology and skilled jobs, where Europe must show its preference for a genuine European industrial policy. In the face of American firms in particular, should competition laws be reviewed in order to create industrial giants, with civilian and military outlets such as Airbus? Is the European Commission ready to hear this kind of argument? How to prepare the European Union – Britain post Brexit relations, and on what model? British Defense Minister Michael Fallon proposes a strengthening of the bilateral agreement with France - following the 2010 Lancaster Treaty - but does not comment on a new partnership with the European Union. It might be interesting to have additional information. As far as Brexit is concerned, could this be an opportunity that will free the European Defence Agency from these budgetary constraints and rigidities that reduce its scope of action? Maybe it's an opportunity. I'd like to know what information you have on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Italian proposal on a kind of Schengen defence is not new. In practice, Belgium, in cooperation with the Netherlands, Luxembourg, France and Germany, has already contributed to the idea of closer cooperation with a small group of EU Member States. Moreover, the 2014 Government Declaration and Policy Paper on Defence, as well as my strategic vision, published in June 2016, demonstrate a clear vision for further European integration and strengthening the common security and defence policy in implementation of the Lisbon Treaty. We are therefore encouraging the pragmatic............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It is important for us to cooperate more and better among EU countries with a view to real output and cooperation with NATO, but without unnecessary duplication between the two organisations. That is a risk that is always lurking. The idea of establishing an operations headquarters was already put forward at a Summit in 2003. The creation of a new staff should only take place if it was certain that this would lead to more cooperation and efficiency among the Member States of the European Union. It is currently premature to make more concrete progress on this issue, because Member States must reach a consensus on this issue and determine the level of ambition to be achieved. The September 27 meeting of Defence Ministers will be a first step in the process of reflection. The overall strategy offers prospects for progress in terms of security and defence policy. The informal ministerial meeting will provide an opportunity for the High Representative to present her ideas to Defence Ministers, who will then be able to exchange views on the future development of this strategy. It is too early to comment on the impact of the Brexit. It is true that we at European level find that there is a certain voluntarism to show at all costs that the European Union can move forward. Defence is indeed one of the areas on which we can move forward, if that is desirable. Mr Thiéry, the problems underlying the non-deployment of tactical groups are, on the one hand, the financing of their deployment, that is to say, that of the Member States which are part of it, for a large part, and, on the other hand, of a political will which must be expressed in a rapid and unanimous manner. For deployment, it takes a decision to 28, soon 27. It's very difficult to get. On the other hand, costs lie where they fall, that means that who takes the role this year, when it is deployed, the costs are for him. You contribute, you pay, but you can also choose not to contribute and not to pay. There is no solidarity in any possible deployment. Ongoing structured cooperation aims at broad and systematic long-term cooperation. It is more at a level other than that of transportation or medical services, which you mention. Advanced air transport cooperation already exists in the form of the EATC (European Air Transport Command) command, which manages and coordinates tactical air transport needs of different European partners. Again, it is a grouping of countries that want to contribute; it is not a system of the European Union. With regard to the MRTT programme, our country is currently negotiating with its international partners a future accession to this programme. In the wake of Warsaw, there was a meeting of partners who are interested in the MRTT, because there is a problem today. You know, or not, the idea at the time was to take a few hours a year in the global system. The strategic vision now targets a complete aircraft that contributes to the EATC or to a structure to be created. But today Poland has withdrawn a little, which may be a problem. But we'll see. Britain has always opposed an increase in the budget of the European Defence Agency. The revised preliminary budget proposed by the Agency for 2017 amounts to EUR 32.5 million, i.e. an increase of two million compared to the 2016 budget. The consequences of Brexit will be discussed and decided at the Agency's next steering committee on November 15 in Bratislava, on the margins of the Council of Foreign Ministers and Defence Ministers. Finally, Ms. Onkelinx, at the national level, and with respect to the Defence Staff, a call for consultation has really been launched. It aims to conduct an economic and financial study of the redevelopment of the Queen Elisabeth neighbourhood and the former NATO site. The first findings of this study were presented to me, and we decided to take an option that was provided for in the demand for supply, i.e. to expand the study with specific and concrete questions. It is clear, however, that when an informed decision is taken on the future of these sites, based on a well-established study, it will be in consultation with the City of Brussels, the municipalities and the federated entities concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u69	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As has already been said in my question, you replied in part in plenary last week. However, I would like to refer to your statement that we must pursue pragmatism. Of course, we also want more and better cooperation than we do today. A real output must be delivered and, of course, we must avoid duplication of current partnerships. In the past, Belgium has always been a pioneer of international cooperation in the fields of trade, economic affairs, development cooperation and defence. Although you do make the link to European cooperation in the vision, which I do not wish to minimize, it must also be implemented. If you answer that we must pursue pragmatism, I would like to point out that, in our opinion, Belgium has already set an example, in its cooperation with different countries, and that we should remain a pioneer in this. This is what I am somewhat missing today, the fact that Belgium can now be the driving force in taking the lead with other countries and ministers for European cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u70	Mr Top, what do I mean by pragmatism? I mean, we have to move forward. For example, a number of countries have declared their willingness to pool their aircraft and jointly offer them for the European Air Transport Command. Other countries didn't go along with that, tant piss. If we demand that such a project should and will be carried out at EU level, we will be discussing it for another five years and there is no cooperation yet. By a pragmatic approach, I mean building from the bottom up. That is my personal conviction and I want to fight for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u71	I agree with your comment on the pragmatic aspect, Minister, but there must also be results. An example has been given, but we are being taken into account for the results. We expect initiatives to be taken to achieve such cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u72	Minister, you said that the Italian proposal was not new. This is not an Italian proposal, it is a proposal by the Head of Diplomacy of the European Union! We mustn't confuse. That being said, this idea is all the better if it joins the discussions that Belgium and other historical members of the European Union already had in this area. Belgium has been fighting for the design of a common European defence for several years. You're telling us there's a meeting on September 27th. This will really be an opportunity to discuss the project with Mrs Mogherini in a pragmatic way. I invite you to have, pragmatically, parallel diplomacy. Whatever the state of play, it is already necessary to set the stage so that, if a European staff is to be established, Brussels can be at the heart of the scheme. Obviously, we have the assets. Knowing the European discussions, it is better to do this early on in lobbying. I really invite you to do so. As far as moving is concerned, you say that the first results of a study have been given but that you still need some information. I wasn't there when we discussed it in this committee, but could you remind me who's doing this study? You say you will talk about the results of the study with the city of Brussels and the municipalities. I also invite you to discuss with the Brussels-Capital Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u73	I'd like to work with the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u74	That's very good! Working with the Region would be good. Can't you really tell us about the provisional conclusions of the work that has been done in this area? I'm not curious, but I'm really interested!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u75	If you don't mind, I'll answer you in Dutch. We have put out a tender for a study on the market. It's someone who's gathered a number of people around, including real estate agents, a study firm and engineers. We have asked a specific question. We have a site in Evere, Reine Elisabeth, NATO and other assets in the Brussels-Capital Region and beyond, in the Brussels region. If we look at our future plans, what answers can be given and how can we provide alternative funding? Mr Pirlot has read the strategic vision from a to z. So he can always help you find your way in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u76	I've even heard that you were in favour of federated entities. I thought you were a Belgian. We learn it every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u77	So I have been made a proposal that was too limited. It was limited to the site Reine Elisabeth. The solution wasn't in there. I asked you to take a closer look and look at our future needs, then see where you can work with the needs of other governments or the private market. If we were to reject a piece, what would be the potential of the private market to absorb that piece? Mr Pirlot will once again ask me a question about it, but the strategic vision for infrastructure does not provide for large budgets, because we assume that we will have to finance them in a different way, namely in the way it is happening in many municipalities today. If we have the results of the study, I would like to introduce them to the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u78	Perfect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u79	Minister, I share with you the pragmatic will. I will return to question you after the September 27, 2016 meeting. At the level of the European Union, from time to time, there are great incantatory statements. I'm used to it. We are told that we are going to strengthen and, at the end of the day, we are still very rarely able to overcome national mistrust. We have been talking about the European Defence Community for over fifty years and we are still waiting. The security environment in which we are, is evolving. Wars are costing more and more. There is no longer a European state with a national capacity to conduct large-scale military operations. We can see it with France or Great Britain. The economic crisis we are going through in Europe is not necessarily in favour of strengthening the defence departments of European countries because, as is well known, in some countries, which are particularly heavily involved in the armaments sector, there are still fears of job losses. I hope that, for once, something will be achieved. I can see that there are no budgets or concrete implications that are determined for the time being. Perhaps it would be time for the European Union to cease to be an economic giant and a political and military dwarf.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u80	Minister, I have three brief reservations. At Belgian level, we are just trying to move towards less government. We sometimes call it disrespectful waterheads. We are really trying to tackle that head of water and are taking steps forward in this respect. It is particularly undesirable to create a new waterhead at a higher level. At European level, more than ten organisations are already working on defence. I hear a question here about a new European headquarters, no doubt with other posts. We must therefore be very careful and move towards less structures, less administration and less government. However, we must strive for more action and more output, with the aim of increasing safety. Mr Minister, my second thought is this. You mentioned that we already have cooperation projects in several areas. You have given examples of this. However, it can be much more efficient. Above all, we must respond to this and not decide on all kinds of new things. What we have together, above all, we need to make better use of it. Finally, I agree with you that we must be careful not to set up a second NATO. Financial resources are limited everywhere, including with us. So let us certainly not double up and certainly not impose any additional burdens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u81	Minister, as has just been said, it is pleased that you have spoken about the history of duplicates, because there is something to be discussed. This is an excellent thing, since it is in one way or another to achieve savings. You gave information about Poland, which I didn't know. I'll take that into account from now on. With regard to the combined purchase of the A330 MRTTs, I will come back to ask you more specifically. I'd like to talk about the Brexit for 15 seconds. I personally remain convinced that this is a real opportunity in the light of rigidities and budgetary constraints. However, I am somewhat concerned about the steps taken by Britain. In the end, it is felt that Brexit gives it a financial advantage in that it no longer has to pay its contributions, but on the other hand, it is moving towards bilateral agreements by trying to convey its message as the most important. I believe that we must be extremely attentive to the initiatives that will be taken by Britain, not only with France, but with other European countries, to try to enjoy what it had before, but without paying any financial contribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u82	Mr Thiéry, with regard to the famous Franco-German letter, one partner advocates collective defence, while the other signatory is negotiating a bilateral contract separately. It is an element that must be kept in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u83	Mr. Minister, on 24 August 2016, The Australian came out with a very serious data breach. The daily had access to 22 000 pages with information from DCNS, a French shipbuilding company. The documents contain secret details of India's brand-new Scorpene submarines, the sales plans of frigates to Chile and Mistral class ships to Russia. DCNS is also one of the parties that wants to build the new Dutch submarines. If characteristics of a submarine leak out, the boat is easier to detect. Also, for potential opponents, the limits or limitations of the boats become clear, information that is very useful during a conflict. According to The Australian, the documents include the frequencies of the sonars, the noise level at different speeds, the maximum depth of diving, the range and the magnetic appearance of the boats. Of course, DCNS uses secure communication in international projects. However, despite all the secure connections, such information could still find its way out. The quality of any weaponry is now very closely linked to what is known about it. Our Defense will make several major investments in large military equipment in the coming years with the implementation of the strategic plan. Can Belgium, as a purchasing State, include in a contract with the producer of, for example, frigates, mine sweepers or fighter aircraft, a cancellation clause whereby the supply and payment of unproduced weapons can be removed in the event of particularly secret information being leaked? During the exploratory step in the procedure, does the Defence Department also consider the reliability of the foreign yards of foreign contractors and subcontractors of shipbuilders, among others? Finally, when purchasing large military equipment, is it guaranteed for the security of technical information? Minister, the strategic vision provides for a replacement of the frigates and mine warriors. The purchase procedure for this would be carried out together with the Netherlands. In line with the strategic vision, there is a budget of EUR 1 036 billion for the replacement of the frigates, including the two tactical drones, and a budget of EUR 932 million for the purchase of six mine fighters. In the Netherlands there is still much uncertainty about the defence budget and the vision for the future. This is a matter of concern to us, because we in Belgium have made a clear choice in the strategic vision of cooperation with the Netherlands in the field of the Navy's replacement programme. With the Dutch elections in 2017 in mind, it is very important to get a signal from the Netherlands in the short term that it wants to join us for the joint replacement of the frigates and mine hunters. In this sense, a letter of intent between the two countries would be a clear gesture. On 11 and 12 September, the Dutch Defence Commission visited Brussels, including a lunch in your cabinet. What was the reason for the visit of the Dutch Defence Commission to you? Have you discussed the cooperation on procurement procedures? If so, what conclusions could you draw from the conversations? What concrete agreements have been made with the Netherlands? Has the Netherlands already committed a specific budget for the replacement? Is a letter or intent a possible piste to ensure cooperation over the elections?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u84	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Yüksel expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u85	Mr Top, I can answer your first series of questions as follows. In accordance with the rules on public contracts, the contracting authority may at any time rely on omissions, delays or any facts which it charges to the contractor and which give rise to a disadvantage, in order to decide at that time to terminate the contract. The command documents can indeed indicate what is considered classified information by the Defense Department. It is therefore not impossible to break an agreement through the clauses as a result of the leaking of such information. At every stage of the procedure, including during the market exploration, the aim is always to obtain the widest possible picture of the market in question. Each company or registered partner has the right to tender for a public contract, but candidates for the selection procedure who do not meet the selection criteria may be refused the contract documents. The contracting authority may provide that both tenderers and subcontractors undertake to protect the confidentiality of all classified information held or notified to them during the duration of the entire contract or even after the termination or expiry of the contract, including treatment, marketing and data storage. As far as the second set of questions is concerned, you are quite well informed, but not entirely correct. The Dutch Permanent Committee of Defence visits Brussels annually. The committee calls this a trifle: there is a contact with NATO, a contact at EU level and a contact with the Minister of Defence. The latter is that the Dutch ambassador offers a lunch to which I am invited. It is an informal lunch, where it can be discussed and is held annually. The menu was good; it is one of the better embassies to be invited. The file on naval acquisition has also been discussed, without it being discussed very much in detail. Our message was, of course, that we want to make progress. What I have understood from them, perhaps this can reassure you in connection with the imminent elections in the Netherlands, is that all the members present, including the members of the opposition, considered naval cooperation as a win-win situation. They seem to me to be willing to continue on that road. Of course, it is not up to the Defence Committee to make concrete agreements on future financing and such, but I will meet my Dutch colleague in the course of the coming months to discuss this specifically. It is true that we have also discussed at the Ambassador's house that the Netherlands has a different kind of planning than we do. So there is work to be done to align both plans. This is not about the desire to replace vessels. They are both of the same age and will therefore have to be replaced both the mine hunters and the frigates. The point is that our timing and planning are somewhat in line with each other. This does not exclude the possibility of other partners joining the acquisition process. I'll take your suggestion for a letter of intent with me. It is in line with the expectations that we will talk about letters or intent and proceed to a definitive roll-out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u86	Mr. Secretary, I will briefly replicate. Firstly, thank you for your detailed explanation of my first question. This is an example of what could go wrong in the whole secret information procedure, which then leaks. However, I am convinced that with the greatest care this will be included and followed up in our future tenders. Let us hope that it never happens to us effectively. On the second question concerning cooperation with the Netherlands in the field of the Navy, let me make it clear that Brussels' visit was on the website of the Dutch Parliamentary Committee. For the rest, there wasn't much in it. A Dutch colleague had informed me about this and indeed spoke of a nice lunch.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u87	Your Dutch colleague is an intelligent and pleasant lady.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u88	My concern is that agreements on timing and planning will be made for 2017, as there will be elections in the Netherlands and as there will be a continuation of cooperation with the Netherlands, both in terms of purchasing policy and in terms of the effective construction and maintenance of frigates and mine hunters, as well as in the strategic vision paper. Fortunately, or perhaps unfortunate, the boats are of the same generation and therefore need to be replaced, you have replied. But the purchase procedure will take a while. It would be a pity to have to wait until after the Dutch elections, until a new cabinet has been set up, to take the next steps. I suppose you'll be in trouble with your planning.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u89	In the planning of the replacements for the Navy, from 2024 onwards, the MCMs will take their turn and the frigates will come even later. If it is not signed tomorrow, it is not a tragedy, but we must move forward. Planning is not so bad, but it is clear that the most important guarantee for the implementation of the strategic vision is the effective and irrevocable start of a number of processes. That's my attitude, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u90	You're right. A letter or intent therefore offers the opportunity to ratify the partnership.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u91	Mr Minister, on 11 July, a C-130 on a training flight crashes at the take-off of the Air Base near the Portuguese capital and three occupants are killed. Do you have any information on the cause of the crash? Does the accident affect its own C-130 dynamometers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u92	Mr Top, according to our information, the Portuguese investigation into the cause of the C-130 crash is still ongoing. So far we have not received any official information on this matter and therefore no additional security measures have been taken in the defence sector. That seems pretty obvious to me. For your information, if there is any suspicion of a technical failure that led to a crash of the C-130 in one of the partner countries, that news will be shared automatically and immediately with all users of the C-130. That didn't happen. I will not draw any conclusions about the investigation, but we have not received any warning.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u93	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u94	Questions Nos 13340 and 13341 by Mrs Jadin lapsed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u95	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 13342 expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u96	Madam President, Minister, since the end of military service in 1994, our country has experienced several initiatives to recruit new members, including citizen service in 2008 and voluntary military engagement in 2010. There is a need to be made clear that these initiatives have not achieved the desired objectives. According to your own figures, out of 840 positions opened between 2010 and 2014, we had only 348 incorporations, a drop-out rate of 57%. Since 2015, voluntary military service has virtually fallen to abandonment. However, we can read, in point 7 of your government's strategic vision (page 138) – not just Mr. Pirlot who read it – that you announce as paramount the fact of limiting the attrition of training (currently around 50%, all categories of military personnel combined). I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. What do you intend to put in place to mobilize young people to return and, above all, to remain in Defence, other than advertising (especially on social networks) while morale is at the lowest level, especially as a result of the budget cuts decided by this government? What about the military engagement rate for this year? The figure of 900 recruits is announced for 2016 in point 7 of the strategic vision, page 134. And more specifically, what is the proportion of women among volunteers? You have already responded in part earlier. At the academic level, since 2015-2016 is over, what is the drop-out rate?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u97	Ms. Chair, Ms. Fernandez Fernandez, as early as 2014, when the first appointments were made to the statute for a limited period of time (the BDL), it was found that this status was much more attractive, as you say, than voluntary military recruitment. Thus, in 2014, 507 BDL places were filled out of the 580 open places, the difference being due to the freeze of recruitments imposed at the end of the year. On the other hand, the 130 EVMI places opened resulted in 44 recruitments. In view of the limited number of authorised recruitments, it was decided, from 2015, not to carry out EVMI recruitments. Since 2014, 68 NCOs and 1,108 volunteers have been hired under BDL status. The attrition rate for these NCOs is 18% and 24% for volunteers. Taking into account the above, there is no ongoing initiative to make EVMI status more attractive. In order to motivate young people to opt for a career in defence, advertising campaigns are launched, jobs days and open days are regularly organised. At the end of 2016, as part of the 2017 recruitment, specific days of introductions will be organised for candidates for a career in manoeuvring troops. It should be noted that, for the time being, there are still enough applicants for the places to be filled. For 2016, a total of 900 places were actually opened for recruitment, including 430 for the volunteer category. Currently, 754 military personnel have been recruited, including 281 volunteers, including 11 women. It's not much. Recruitment will continue in October, November and December. It is therefore not yet possible to give a definitive figure. To answer the question about the retirement rate of military members incorporated in 2015, 735 military candidates were hired in 2015 and as of September 19, 2016, 603 of them are still members of the Defence, which means that, for all categories, 18% of them have left the Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u98	Minister, thank you for your answers. Could I get your written answer? I'm being arrested by the 11 women out of 754. There is indeed a job to do! I will not fail to return to the subject and I think I will not be the only one.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u99	I must add that the drop-out rate, which is 18%, is in line with the European average. Secondly, an explanation is not a justification. Among volunteers, the focus was on combat categories, as the needs are enormous in the manoeuvring departments and in the paratroopers. It is more difficult to recruit women to participate. On the other hand, their numbers have increased among officers and non-commissioned officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u100	Minister, please excuse me for replying again, but this figure is a strong one for me. I know that many unknowns are hovering on a variety of sites. I won't come back because you said so earlier. However, Minister Flahaut had opened a crèche at the St. Lawrence site. I wonder if women's concerns, because they remain women with their realities, are not the result of this uncertainty about the future of Defence. We will probably discuss this on other occasions, but I also wanted to stress it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u101	Mr Van Hees's question lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u102	Minister, on 12 September you announced that some 30 Belgian soldiers will work closer to the front line with IS. These soldiers will not fight on the ground, but assist from internationally protected centers. Since July 2016, Belgian F-16 Tunisians have also participated in the offensive over Syria, while this was previously limited to Iraq. In the same interview on 12 September, you indicated that less than 10% of Belgian flights take place over Syria. You would also give those figures to Parliament. I would like to receive an answer to the following questions. How many flights over Syria and over Iraq have there been since the beginning of July? How many reconnaissance flights have there been per country, and how many actions per country? What tasks will the 30 Belgian military perform in the internationally protected centres? During what period will the Belgian military work from these centres? Has Belgium received the specific question of working closer to the front line? When did Belgium get that question and what exactly did it mean? Finally, what costs will the adaptation of the mission entail? Do they fit in the foreign operations budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u103	Minister, when I tabled this question, the head of US diplomacy John Kerry and the Russian Sergei Lavrov had agreed on a plan to bring about a ceasefire in Syria. The United States and Russia had agreed to a truce in Syria, which had begun last week, and which would normally lead to cooperation between the military forces of both countries. In the meantime, it is known that unfortunately the situation has changed somewhat negatively in recent days. As our country participates in the international coalition against Daesh and since July, F-16s have been involved in the offensive in Syria, I would still like to ask you two questions, Minister. If, however, such an agreement were to persist in time, what would you think would be the consequences of this agreement on the ground, particularly in terms of the commitment of our Belgian military, and more generally, on the 3D strategy in the region? You announced on 12 September that some 30 Belgian soldiers would be approaching the front line with Daesh again this year. Can you tell us more about this announcement, and about its compliance with the resolution as adopted by the House? We stand here on a political level, since for the rest, we have the services of the Military Operations Monitoring Commission abroad to address technical issues that must not be revealed. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u104	Madam President, Mr Top, Mr Pirlot, for the detailed information I refer to the special committee responsible for the follow-up of the foreign missions, where I reported all the dates this morning, behind closed doors. The agreement signed between the United States and Russia will have little or no impact on Belgian operations, i.e. the coalition has been offering guarantees for the de-conflicting of air operations in Syria for the past week and the signed agreement does not apply to the partners of the international coalition. It is an agreement between the United States, Russia and Syria. After being trained, among other things by Belgian soldiers in Baghdad, the Iraqi army gradually resumes the management of its trainings. This makes it possible to shift to an operational concept aimed at qualitative improvement of troops. The Defence Staff is currently analysing how the Belgian military can adapt to the change and contribute effectively to the new approach of assist and advice for the benefit of the Peshmerga and also of the Suni. It is important to note that the operation assist and advice is performed from secure locations and therefore does not involve intervention on the ground. Its purpose is to advise and assist the security forces headquarters in the air support application process. There is therefore no question of accompanying the security forces in field operations. The cost of any reorientation of the mission will in any case be covered by the budget for the operational deployment. The compliance of this commitment with the resolution as adopted by the House has already been discussed at the Joint External Relations and National Defence Committees on May 18, 2016. In my opinion, it is in line with the resolution. The Defence does not have data on potential victims that could be caused by the coalition, and therefore cannot express itself on this subject. Belgian Defence strictly respects the mandate imposed on it by the government, and this is in full transparency. Operations carried out by the on-site detachment shall be in accordance with the procedures. The Belgian military have, to my knowledge, never been involved in strikes that may have been mistakenly committed by the coalition.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u105	Minister, your answer is insufficient. I would like to focus specifically on two answers or points. Firstly, I deliberately asked my question about the number of flights or reconnaissance flights and the different actions between Iraq and Syria. I did so because I would like to point out the schizophrenia and the difference between, on the one hand, the special committee responsible for the follow-up of foreign missions, which meets behind closed doors and which may not disclose any information, and, on the other hand, the information you provided yourself in the interview. That information was minimal, but I would nevertheless like to point out that you indicated that less than 10% of Belgian flights take place over Syria. I can conclude that at least 10 flights have taken place over Iraq since 1 July 2016. Otherwise, we can't make that count. Why am I giving that to you? Because you cannot simply inform the citizens of our country and of our Members of Parliament about simple answers to simple questions, such as how many flights took place and over which country, without compromising the safety of our people, our partners and the people on the ground. It is a question of openness and transparency on matters that have been. That's why I asked that question, especially after you released that information in an interview. If I am right, you have also indicated that you are prepared to provide Parliament with the figures. In this respect, I would like to insist.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u106	I want to do that behind closed doors, as always.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u107	So my question remains. I will continue to press for greater transparency, as in other countries. On my second question, concerning the deployment of military forces in international centres, I have received a satisfactory response. Waarvoor dank.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic490x.u108	As far as my question is concerned, we have discussed it in part this morning in the committee. I therefore thank you for your answers.
