ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u1	The interplay of Mrs Pas has been postponed. We'll start, as agreed, with the questions about Congo.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u2	Mr President, Minister, as you know, the situation is changing every day in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. September 19 was an important date. It was on that date that CENI should have called the presidential elections for 19 December. We're far from it. This lack of summons led to violence on 19 and 20 September, with injuries and fires in the seats of opposition parties. My group strongly condemns these deadly violence and fires. Since then, things have changed. The dialogue continued and was concluded earlier this week. Minister, I would like to take stock with you of this matter. Have you ever had contacts on the basis of this dialogue? What did you hear? We know that part of the opposition participated in this dialogue. However, members of the G7 and UDPS have not participated and have already criticized it. What exactly is the situation? Can you provide me with information on the measures planned in case things get complicated for our residents on the spot? I come to a point that is the subject of another question, but I bring them together. We voted in July on a resolution on the DRC. This resolution includes a paragraph that provides for funding in instalments for the organization and conduct of elections in the DRC. Is that a lead you're planning on defending? You mentioned, no later than Monday and Tuesday, at the European Foreign Affairs Council, the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Is there a clear timetable? According to my contacts, the mission of the dialogue is, first, to set up a transitional government and, secondly, to instruct that government, together with CENI, to set a clear and precise timetable. Did you also mention this channel of funding in tranches at the meetings of the European Foreign Affairs Council? What were the Council conclusions on the situation in the DRC?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u3	Mr Van Hoof is voting in the Forum, across the street. If she gets back in time, she might be able to replicate. I shall first give the floor to the Minister for his answer to Mr Crusnière's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u4	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, I refer to my remarks on the occasion of the presentation of the Central Africa strategic note on 5 October 2016, at which I explained to you how what happened on 19 and 20 September 2016 in Kinshasa with a very heavy human balance, fundamentally changed the situation. There has been a disproportionate use of force by law enforcement and security services, which is very worrying and must not be left without consequences. I therefore welcome the adoption of the strong conclusions by the Foreign Affairs Council on Monday, which clearly reflect the position I have defended before you on the situation and which will continue to guide our action. While a clear message should be sent, including the need for presidential and legislative elections in 2017, our goal remains to re-create positive momentum through targeted and progressive pressure measures. In the European Union, preparatory work on individual measures, in particular against those responsible for violence, will begin in the coming days. We expect a firm commitment from the government to respect the Constitution and allow CENI to organize presidential and legislative elections, as well as guarantees of respect for political space and human rights, quickly in 2017. As you recalled yesterday, a first agreement was reached between the presidential majority and part of the opposition. While the commitment of the African Union and the countries of the region to the search for a peaceful solution is welcome, it should be stressed that the agreement does not yet offer a lasting solution to all the problems that arise. The European Union and Belgium therefore insist in particular on greater inclusiveness and a tight electoral calendar. These two conditions are necessary to guarantee the constitutional order but also peace and stability. Hence the importance of launching a new phase of a truly inclusive political process. I stress the call on all actors to find a solution within the framework of this dialogue and in a peaceful manner. The only peaceful way out is a dialogue involving the regime, all opposition leaders and civil society. This is the message that our Special Envoy will send to the region on the sidelines of the Summit on the initiative of the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region in Luanda early next week. In particular, in relation to Mrs Van Hoof's question on parliamentary diplomacy, it seems appropriate that, as proposed in the resolution, Parliament, in cooperation with AWEPA or the Interparliamentary Union, should also take an initiative to engage in a direct dialogue with the various political actors represented in the Congolese Parliament. My services and our embassy in Kinshasa are already at your disposal to assist you in this. As noted in the Central African strategic note, I am convinced that meetings between representatives of parliaments contribute to the promotion of democracy and peace in the region, and in this case can strengthen the initiative of Belgian diplomacy. Mr Crusnière, I confirmed this to you during the debate on the Central Africa strategic note. With regard to the security situation, of course, the safety of our citizens remains a top priority and we are following developments very closely. Various preparatory meetings have been held in my department in recent weeks to assess the situation. As you will certainly have noticed, the travel notice has been adapted several times. In addition, we regularly contact our nationals on the spot to provide them with useful information and guidance on the situation. This is done through our embassy. I also mentioned to my European colleagues the fact that we could coordinate certain operations or preparations for operations. We do so regularly with our French colleagues on how to organize the management of a number of procedures and operations. With regard to your question on the possible suspension of bilateral aid, I refer to my cooperation colleague, with whom we work in full consultation and with the various European colleagues. Finally, I would like to return to the question of visas. The reduction to a maximum of six months in the length of visas granted to Congolese nationals holding diplomatic passports is a political signal that reflects our concern about the current blockage. This signal is given within a political framework that is that of the conclusions of the Foreign Affairs Council on Monday, since the Council has indicated the need to coordinate the approach to visa issuance with respect to holders of diplomatic passports or services. Discussions are under way to that end. There is broad support for Belgium's approach. We encourage the Congolese parties to make progress in resolving the country's political problems and call on the authorities to create the conditions necessary to make the dialogue truly inclusive and to resolve all the problems that arise today. The reduction of the length of visas granted to Congolese nationals holding diplomatic passports wishing to travel to Belgium to a maximum of six months is not a sanction imposed on leaders because visas remain available. We do not impose any travel restrictions at this stage on holders of Congolese diplomatic passports, which are not only persons belonging to the presidential majority, as I sometimes hear, but also to opposition groups. In addition, the conditions for issuing visas for ordinary passport holders remain unchanged. Finally, Belgium does not keep statistics on the number of officials and members of the Congolese government who also carry Belgian-Congolese dual nationality and/or a residence permit on Belgian soil. However, I can tell you that the number of holders of a diplomatic passport who applied for a visa in 2015 was 300. With regard to the situation of the Constitutional Court in relation to CENI, the latest decisions of the Court confirming the CENI's ability to set a timetable beyond the dates so far adopted in constitutional terms have been taken into account. With regard to funding, it is clear that, as we call for a broader dialogue, confirmation is being given that there will be support from the international community. However, we did not discuss this issue in more detail at the Foreign Ministers' meeting on Monday. I owe it to the truth to say that we insisted above all that conclusions should be reached. I have had the opportunity to present our point of view, which is shared by all colleagues. But Monday's session was mainly devoted to the situation in Syria. You are aware of the difficulties encountered today in and around Aleppo and of our conclusions regarding the request to the Russian Federation and the regime to stop the bombings completely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u5	Minister, thank you for your answers. The interesting element is the date for the electoral file. We have a clear date. I am convinced that if we put financial and human resources, we could still speed things up. At least the date of 31 July seems certain for the electoral register. It has always been said that there is a possibility of holding elections within three to four months of the establishment of the electoral register. Therefore, organising elections in the course of 2017 is on the way. We must defend this hypothesis, giving priority to presidential elections and not to local elections, as they have tried to do. As far as parliamentary diplomacy is concerned, thanks to the President, we have met with the Chairman of the Assembly's Committee on External Relations. I know your collaborators met him, too. The discussion was frank and interesting with Bienvenue Liyota. I saw him again in the framework of the Inter-Parliamentary Union and he revived the idea of a visit by a delegation on the spot. A date has been advanced: the week of November 20th. According to him, it is better to go there as soon as possible, in any case before 19 December. I reiterated our willingness to meet everyone, opposition parties, civil society and the media. I also told him that we needed an official invitation before we could start the process. Once we have this, I will contact you and our ambassador on the spot to organize this mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u6	Questions Nos 11781 and 12096 by Mr Luykx have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u7	Mr President, Minister, in January 2014, Saudi Arabia took part in the United Nations Human Rights Council. Since then, the country has systematically and seriously violated human rights. It leads the military coalition that operates in Yemen and is responsible for dozens of random air strikes involving many civilian casualties. Saudi Arabia has also used banned cluster munitions. At home, the human rights situation is also abominable: more than 350 executions, degrading corporal punishments, little political freedom, punishment of dissidentity and a shameful position for women. The country also discriminates against minorities, such as the Shiites. Saudi Arabia abuses its position in the UN Human Rights Council to protect itself from international criticism. For example, it stops an internationally independent investigation into abuses in the Yemeni war. Furthermore, the country has blackmailed the UN by threatening to withdraw its funding as long as it was on the ruse or shame of countries that violate children's rights in conflict situations. That blackmail works. The UN General Assembly has the power to exclude a country from the Human Rights Council if it itself flagrantly violates human rights. That is the case with Saudi Arabia. Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch therefore call for an initiative to suspend the country from the Human Rights Council. Is Belgium prepared to support an initiative to suspend Saudi Arabia in the Human Rights Council? Is Belgium prepared, as a current member of the Human Rights Council, to take part in Europe and advocate a bid on this issue in the UN General Assembly? Is Belgium prepared to make concrete proposals within the Human Rights Council to launch an international investigation into war crimes in Yemen? Will Belgium submit a resolution to that effect in the Human Rights Council?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u8	Mr De Vriendt, I share your concern about the human rights situation in both Saudi Arabia and Yemen. I also mentioned this during recent bilateral contacts. The recent attack in Sanaa, in which a grieving crowd was hit and there have been numerous fatalities, I have condemned. The Saudi authorities were asked to disclose the results of the announced investigation. We'll keep following up on this. As far as membership of the Human Rights Council is concerned, I would like to remind you of the establishment resolution of the Human Rights Council which stipulates that UN Member States will take into account the candidate's contribution to the promotion and protection of human rights and their voluntary commitment in the election of the members of the Council. I agree with you that in practice the intentions of the founding resolution are not sufficiently followed. Indeed, there is still a long way to go towards universal respect for human rights. However, the question of a possible suspension of Saudi Arabia as a member of the Human Rights Council is not raised both within the UN and within the EU. The Human Rights Council serves precisely in order to be able to engage in an inclusive dialogue on human rights. I must also point out that the UN General Assembly can only suspend a member of the Human Rights Council by a two-thirds majority. It goes without saying that this is a very high threshold. With regard to your question whether Belgium will take an initiative for a resolution on Yemen in the Human Rights Council, I would like to point out that in September the Human Rights Council adopted a resolution on Yemen calling on the High Commissioner for Human Rights to strengthen its office in Yemen with additional international human rights experts in order to complement the investigation work of the National Commission. This resolution was adopted by consensus. Finally, I would like to point out that both Belgium and the EU expressed their deep concern at the situation in Yemen during the last session of the Human Rights Council. I have also said in plenary that, on the basis of a question from the Yemeni government, we can also help the victims of a situation such as that in Sanaa. So far, I have not received a question in that connection. When that question comes, we'll discuss with the DOD's colleague whether it's possible to send people with burns to Neder-Over-Heembeek.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u9	Mr President, Minister, the fact that a country such as Saudi Arabia is a member of the UN Human Rights Council is a total aberration, not so much because human rights are being violated, but above all because there is no progress. Should membership of the UN Human Rights Council lead to progress, we could draw attention to this progress. The recent incident in Yemen shows that this is not the case at all. You say that the suspension of Saudi Arabia is not on the agenda. This may be so, but then my question to you as a member of the Belgian Government, as a member of the Human Rights Council, is to put it on the agenda. This should initially be done within the European Union in order to move to the UN General Assembly with as broad a proposal as possible. I would therefore ask you to use Belgium's diplomatic capital, initially within the European context, to see to what extent we can suspend a country such as Saudi Arabia from the UN Human Rights Council. If there is progress, this could still be taken into account, but that progress is not there at all. I think we're having a hard time getting around that finding.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u10	Minister, on Friday, 1 July, Dhaka, the capital of Bangladesh, was the scene of a hostage-taking of nearly 12 hours, an attack claimed by the Islamic State. This new act of barbarism will have claimed the lives of 20 people and left some 30 injured. According to several analysts, the equipment of terrorists – assault rifles, pistols and explosives – as well as the planning of this attack would demonstrate a long-prepared operation, requiring the mobilization of a well-established local network. Indeed, since September 2015, the Islamic State has claimed no less than 20 attacks in the region, most often in the form of assassinations. As it progressed, it could have benefited from the allegiance of certain radical armed groups active in the region, as well as the support of a certain section of the local population. The deployment of a structured terrorist network in that region would be all the more worrying given that a branch based in Bangladesh would potentially have a diaspora of young nationals with foreign passports, including the British. Do you confirm the indications that a structured terrorist network from the Islamic State would be effectively established in Bangladesh on a sustainable basis? Do our intelligence services have any evidence to suspect expansion to other countries in the Indian subcontinent? Can you inform me about the number of Belgian citizens currently residing in Bangladesh? Are you planning to reinforce the specific instructions for our Belgian nationals currently present in the territory? Is a meeting with your counterparts in the European Union on the question of the possible expansion of Daesh in the Indian subcontinent soon on the agenda? My question is dated the 4th of July.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u11	Jadin, as a reminder, 28 people, including nine Italians, seven Japanese, two Bangladeshi, one American and one Indian, died as a result of the July 1st hostage taking in Dhaka. In recent years, the security environment in Bangladesh has deteriorated significantly, particularly since the last elections in January 2014. In this way, the few months prior to the 1st July attack were glazed by some 50 assassinations by people inspired by Islamic fundamentalism. Various local Islamist terrorist groups are active in Bangladesh. I am thinking in particular of Ansarullah Bangla Team and Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh. Despite the fact that the Islamic State claimed responsibility for the 1 July attack, no formal link was established between the authors and that State. The Bangladeshi government is challenging the Islamic State's presence in Bangladesh. During the visit of Secretary of State John Kerry at the end of August, the country's Minister of the Interior again refuted the links between the local Islamist movement and the Islamic State. It is therefore difficult to judge whether IS's claim results from media opportunism or whether it is a proven presence of IS in Bangladesh. At the moment, I have not yet been able to talk to my Bangladeshi college about this. Currently, the number of Belgians residing in Bangladesh and registered in the consular register is 64. For information purposes, Belgium does not have an embassy in Dhaka. It therefore relies on the Belgian Embassy in New Delhi and, where appropriate, on the Embassy of the Netherlands in Dhaka. Currently and on the basis of the information available to it, our diplomatic staff in New Delhi do not recommend any travel that is not necessary to Bangladesh. I can still tell you that the possible expansion of the Islamic State in the Indian subcontinent has not yet been formally put on the agenda of the External Affairs Council of the European Union this year. Bangladesh is, however, the subject of discussions in the Asia working group. Whether it is terrorism or the human rights situation, the EU is following this country closely, in close cooperation with the EU Delegation and the embassies of the Member States in Dhaka. Belgium also closely monitors the situation through its embassy in New Delhi and even the Embassy of the Netherlands in Dhaka. In view of the situation, we are concerned about the flow of refugees from the region. I personally asked at the General Affairs Council on Tuesday in Luxembourg that Bangladesh should be one of the countries to be taken into account in the examination of migration policy approaches at the European Council on Thursday and Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u13	Mr President, Minister, on the occasion of the "Paris - Balkans 2016" Summit held on 4 July at the Elysée, French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault met with his counterparts in Austria, Germany, Croatia, Italy and Slovenia, the representatives of the six Western Balkan states Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia, in the presence of the High Representative of the Union Federica Mogherini. The discussion menu included the question of the future European perspectives of the Western Balkans. Indeed, the six countries in the region are involved, to varying degrees, in the process of integration into the Union. If the experts analyse that a change in the Union's approach to the integration of the Balkan countries is not on the agenda, this meeting was all the more important because the latter, fearing that their accession process would suffer the collateral damage of the Brexit crisis, are approaching the sphere of influence of the Russian Federation. Mr Minister, what conclusions can be drawn for the consequences of the Russian threat and Brexit on the countries from the Western Balkans in relation to their application for membership of the European Union? Can you inform me in more detail about the state of play of the integration process of these different States, as well as any remaining blockages in the various negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u14	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, the summit held in Paris on 4 July was not a summit of the European Union. Like previous summits in Vienna in August 2015 and Berlin in 2014, the Paris Summit brought together Heads of Government, Foreign Ministers and Ministers of Economy from six Member States (Austria, Croatia, France, Germany, Italy and Slovenia), the six Western Balkan countries and the European Commission. Belgium therefore did not take part in this conference. The Summit, which took place just two weeks after the referendum in the United Kingdom, allowed participants to confirm the European path of the Western Balkans. Both the Member States concerned and the countries of the region have renewed their commitments. For its part, the European Commission has stated that it will not change its enlargement strategy and that the process will continue. The United Kingdom has not yet completed the formal notification provided for in Article 50 of the Treaty. It is premature to assess the impact of Brexit on the enlargement process. As regards the status of the candidate countries in the process of integration into the European Union, we are awaiting the European Commission's annual assessment report on the stabilisation and association process and enlargement negotiations by early November. For the time being, negotiations on technical accession, based on the chapters of the acquis, are under way with Serbia and Montenegro. Justice, the organisation of the judiciary and fundamental rights are particular points of attention for Montenegro, which is the most advanced in the negotiations, with 24 open chapters and two provisionally closed. Since this year, following progress in the dialogue on normalization of relations between Belgrade and Pristina, four chapters have also been opened with Serbia. For Albania, on the other hand, as a candidate country since 2014, five conditions must be met before negotiations can actually start: the reform of the public administration; the strengthening of the independence of judicial institutions; the fight against corruption; the fight against organised crime; and the protection of minority rights. During this summer, Albania took an important step forward with a constitutional reform that will allow the government to take the necessary steps to ensure the independence of the judiciary. The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has been a candidate country since 2005. In 2009, the Commission gave a positive opinion on the opening of the negotiations. However, in the absence of consensus in the Council, negotiations could not start. Greece calls for a solution to the question of the official name of the country, on which it has a bilateral dispute with the same country. Moreover, since 2014, the country has been in a major political crisis and is likely to regress in its process of European integration. I hope that the early elections next December will enable the country to get back on track. In 2015, following a written commitment by all political parties on priority reforms, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina entered into force. The country applied for membership in February this year. In September 2016, the Council requested the Commission's preliminary technical opinion on this application. Also in 2016, a Stabilisation and Association Agreement entered into force between the European Union and Kosovo, whose independence is nevertheless not recognised by all Member States. The process initiated in Berlin in 2014 has made it possible to focus on regional cooperation, which is a key factor for the success of the European integration of the countries of the region. The momentum created by this cycle of summits certainly contributes to improved cooperation and good-neighbourly relations. The emphasis on specific themes and projects aimed at enhancing connectivity in transport, energy and people-to-people exchanges is an important asset. Previous summits had already made progress in those areas. The first infrastructure projects will be launched in 2016. New projects were launched in Paris, inter alia, in the field of rail transport and youth, in the context of the management of the migration crisis and the fight against terrorism. Belgium continues to support the European integration policy of the six Balkan countries. On the basis of its own merits, each application will be reviewed on the basis of strict compliance with the relevant conditions and criteria. This means that there is no fixed timetable and there is no link between the situation in either country. It is really on the basis of its own merits that we will make a judgment on the progress of the processes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u15	Minister, that was the subject of a subsidiary question that I was going to ask you. Because both of them are not connected, I really think that's a good sign. Indeed, both will be motivated to match their reforms with those required to enter the European Union. In any case, it is gratifying to know that the negotiations are continuing here, and that they are also bearing fruit in various fields, although – it must be noted – this is not the case for all Balkan countries. I also think we have an interest in looking at this region and trying to continue to make it flourish. It is a region that we need in the future to unite the European Union even better and make it even stronger in relation to external issues. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u16	Question No 13045 by Mrs Capoen has been postponed; Question No 13119 by Mr Dirk Van der Maelen has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u17	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the Human Rights Council has adopted a resolution calling on Eritrea to put an end to the regime of indefinite national service by demobilizing conscripts who have completed their eighteen months of compulsory military service, to no longer restrict them to forced labour beyond the legal period of 18 months of military service, and to stop imposing on children their final year of schooling in a military training camp. If this were proposed in Belgium, it would be the revolution! In fact, every month, Eritreans flee an Eritrean dictatorship from the corrupt administration which has set up, to ensure the control of the population, unlimited military service for men and women, assimilated to slavery. Unremunerated forced labour, repeated rapes of women and brutality push them to risk the policy of "shooting to kill" applied by border guards towards those whom they consider to be traitors. Once in Sudan, where they stay for a few months to accumulate the financial means necessary for their migration to Europe, through Egypt and Libya, they are often kidnapped, undone and resold –rightly resold! - to traffickers who chain them, beat them, starve them and then sell them to others, in Egypt, who imprison them and torture them for one single purpose: to be paid by the family a substantial ransom, 30 to 50,000 dollars, by making the phone shouts of the unfortunate being subjected to the worst abuse and threatening to continue until death ensues if they do not receive the requested amount. This situation is not new. The sad reality is that this is reinforced by the active or passive complicity of border guards. It also feeds the greed of Eritrean officials living abroad. This trafficking had already claimed 25,000 victims at the beginning of 2014, for a loot of 450 million euros. When released, Egyptian police often imprison them again, until they have the means to pay a ticket to Ethiopia. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the UN Human Rights Council has therefore asked the African Union to prosecute those responsible. The Council has relied on the overwhelming report of the United Nations commission of inquiry over the past 25 years, which denounces slavery, disappearances, torture, persecution, rape and murder. The United Nations Security Council has voted sanctions against several personalities. Some members of the Council questioned the sanctions policy, finding it unproductive. What is your position on this subject, seen by some Europeans as a negative incentive in counterpoint to the positive incentives that it wants to implement in its migration plan? Eritrea has offended this resolution at the UN Human Rights Council – just as Stalin's USSR and Hitler would have opposed it – claiming that it happens as the country advances in the field of economic, political, social and cultural rights and increases its cooperation with regional and international processes. Can you tell us what's really happening? The European Union has expressed its readiness to help Eritrea improve its human rights situation. The new European Migration Plan, presented on 13 June, talks about enhanced cooperation with third countries to better manage migration by tackling its root causes. In order to ensure that migrants and asylum seekers stay at home or near home and to increase the number of readmissions to countries of departure, aid for employment, investment, protection of refugees, better border control will be proposed. Does this plan, with a budget of EUR 8 billion, seem to me to be very important, to be mobilised for Eritrea, as well as for its neighbours, in order to stabilize and relax the internal situations of those countries and bring them to an end to the latent conflict between Eritrea and Ethiopia? The Council urged the international community to redouble its efforts and work together more closely to ensure the protection of those fleeing Eritrea, especially unaccompanied children. How can the European Union act in this area alongside UNHCR?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u18	Mr Flahaux, I share your concern about the human rights situation in Eritrea. Belgium co-sponsored the Human Rights Council Resolution of June 2016 on the situation of human rights in Eritrea. The Council extends the mandate of the Special Rapporteur established in 2012 for a period of one year. The rapporteur is requested to follow up on the implementation of the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry on Human Rights in Eritrea. During this Council meeting last June, Belgium also intervened in the interactive debate to express its concern about the continuation of human rights violations in this country in order to deplore the government's refusal to welcome and offer wide access to its territory to the commission of inquiry. Security Council resolution 1907 of 23 December 2009 sets out the framework for the application of possible sanctions against individuals or entities involved in the situation in Eritrea and Somalia. This resolution has a clear scope: it places under a sanctions regime those individuals or entities that violate the arms embargo in neighbouring countries, support terrorist groups active in other countries or do not cooperate with the group of experts established under the sanctions regime. Eritrea is regularly accused of supporting the Al Shabaab group in Somalia. Their authorities deny but refuse to cooperate with the group of experts established under the sanctions regime: the Somali Eritrea Monitoring Group. Note that the decision whether or not to place an individual or entity on the sanctions list falls within the exclusive competence of the sanctions committee of the 15 members of the Security Council! Belgium pleads in parallel for the continuation of a frank and constructive dialogue with the Eritrean authorities, in particular with regard to the human rights situation in the country and its impact on migration flows. The aim of this approach is to have a lasting commitment from the authorities, with a view to working towards improving the socio-economic situation and the human rights situation. Belgium participates in this dialogue within the framework of the European Union. In terms of migration, particularly returns and reintegration, the European Union decided in July five new priority countries (Compact programme). These are Senegal, Mali, Niger, Nigeria and Ethiopia. The aim is to intensify dialogue with them and facilitate return. You will have found that Eritrea is not one of them. However, we supported actions, through the Emergency Trust Fund for Stability, to address the root causes of irregular migration and displacement in Africa. For example, Eritrea is benefiting from regional action aimed at improving the protection of migrants, displaced persons and victims of trafficking and trafficking in human beings. A new job creation project is also being developed. Eritrea presented in September two new avenues of work under the Trust Fund, which still need to be consolidated in the form of real projects by the European Union, in particular with Germany, to be presented to the Fund's Board of Directors. In general, however, the country does not yet appear ready to seize all the opportunities offered by the latter. We will, of course, continue to act in the same direction by trying to help the country open up not only to the controls that we want to carry out through a commission of inquiry and human rights experts, but also to active collaboration in terms of supporting populations in difficulty, whether they are displaced or need economic projects in order to gain access to a minimum of decent living and, if possible, employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u19	Minister, thank you for your answer. I confess to being frustrated, not by this one, but by the evolution of this country. The liberation movements of Eritrea have, at first glance, seemed to us to be obviously sympathetic, even if this posed problems with Ethiopia, since it thus lost all access to the sea, in their implementation of democratic socialism. It is now chaos, corruption and forceful stateism that reign. Beyond what you have said, and I thank you for that, and for the economic changes, political and institutional developments must be brought about in Eritrea. It seems to me that only Europe will be able to take the initiative in this area, especially since between the two wars this country was Italian, despite it, of course. Moreover, the United States will not intervene, since there is no oil there, if I may allow this to happen. We will follow this file, because rapes are committed daily, accompanied by ransom requests. We can't go on like this. We let the Khmer Rouge act in Cambodia, when we should have intervened. In this case, if the situation continues to worsen in Eritrea, we will have to act militarily.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u20	Mr President, Minister, on 8 and 9 July, together with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence, you participated in the North Atlantic Council (NATO) Summit of Heads of State and Government in Warsaw. In its long closing communiqué, point 53 states: "NATO's nuclear deterrence posture is also based, in part, on the nuclear weapons of the United States deployed forward in Europe". It is a first that NATO's conclusions explicitly mention American nuclear weapons stored in Europe. Minister, could you clarify to me what the negotiators of these conclusions – which I guess are well weighed and under-weighted – mean by this sentence? Does point 53 of the conclusions of the NATO summit confirm for Belgium the maintenance of the illegal storage (in the eyes of international law) of American nuclear warheads B-61 on the air base of our Defense in Kleine-Brogel? These conclusions do not specify the precise period or duration envisaged for the maintenance of these "forward-deployed" weapons in Europe. What period of time was considered in discussions in which you participated? Finally, does this conclusion-revelation not, in your opinion, completely contradict the spirit and letter of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, of which Belgium (like many other NATO States) is a party? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u21	Mr President, Minister, since the Oslo Conference in March 2013, a new international dynamic is taking place around nuclear weapons. The main objective of this new movement is to move beyond international immobilization towards global nuclear disarmament. An overwhelming majority of the Member States of the UN General Assembly now subscribe to it through the adoption of a humanitarian commitment signed by 139 Member States. As a result of these movements, a working group was established: the Open-ended Working Group on Nuclear Disarmament, which aimed to deal with the provisions and standards that will have to be concluded in order to achieve and maintain a world without nuclear weapons. This group met several times and at the third session, which took place on 19 August, a final report was endorsed by a majority of 170 States. The working group made several recommendations. However, I would first like to know what Belgium's position has been in relation to this working group, since it is up to me that Belgium voted against this final report. I would like to know whether this is correct and what reasons have led to the rejection of this agreement. One of the first recommendations was the organization of a new conference in 2017 to negotiate a legally binding instrument to ban nuclear weapons with a view to achieving their total elimination. Many States in Africa, Latin America, South Asia and the Pacific have endorsed this proposal. If my information is correct, the European States have been divided between a group of States which have adopted a neutral position (Austria, Malta, Ireland and Switzerland) and other States which have opposed the holding of this conference. Minister, what was Belgium's position at this conference? What position will be defended in the future? The second important recommendation is an invitation to the first committee of the UN General Assembly to call for the negotiation of a nuclear-weapon-ban treaty for 2017. In that connection, a resolution had been adopted. The committee will meet on 24 October and 2 November to discuss this resolution. What will be Belgium's position on this occasion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u22	Minister, I have the impression that there are quite a lot of multilateral initiatives going on at UN level to achieve nuclear disarmament. I note that a number of NATO Member States and a number of EU Member States are adopting an increasingly benevolent attitude, including in their voting behaviour, rather than in Belgium in order to achieve global nuclear disarmament. I am surprised that Belgium, in view of our tradition of trying to achieve disarmament in the field of chemical weapons, cluster munitions and so on, is not in the leading group. It is true that it is not a structured leading group, the voting behaviour of the countries concerned varies according to the initiative. Nevertheless, I am surprised by Belgium's voting behaviour, for example when it voted in August on a report which the UN Special Working Group submitted to the UN General Assembly. Belgium then voted against that report. Four other NATO countries, including the Netherlands, abstained. Three EU Member States have even adopted the report. Nevertheless, Belgium voted against that report. Soon there will be another chance, because things are moving pretty fast. Many countries are active on that multilateral pathway. At the end of September, six countries submitted a resolution to the UN General Assembly calling for a UN conference next year on a legal ban on nuclear weapons. Do you think it is possible that Belgium will be part of this group this time and will therefore support this initiative of Austria, among others? More fundamentally, I would ask you to take a hint of the veil and tell us to what extent Belgium is under pressure from NATO and from a number of nuclear countries on such occasions not to join in a process leading to an international ban on nuclear weapons. Have agreements been made with nuclear superpowers or with other NATO Member States to take a waiting position? After all, it is clear that Belgium is taking a wait-and-see attitude. Can our country unilaterally decide to ban nuclear weapons from the territory? As we know, this is a theoretical question. However, I do not think it is an insignificant question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u23	Mr. Chair, I won't be long and I'll just ask the minister my questions. Why did Belgium not approve the OEWG (Open-ended Working Group) final report on nuclear disarmament, as presented by my two colleagues earlier? What will be the attitude of our representative at the United Nations General Assembly on 24 October and 2 November with regard to the draft resolution introduced by Mexico, Austria, Ireland, Brazil, Nigeria and South Africa? I assume this will be our ambassador. Finally, have contacts been made at the Council of the European Union in order to create an embryonic common European position with a view to this UN AG? Have any specific contacts been made with our Dutch ally in this regard? Indeed, on 17 May 2016, the Dutch Parliament voted a resolution calling precisely on the Dutch government to advocate for a nuclear ban within the group in question, the OEWG? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u24	Mr President, Minister, my question is in line with colleagues and concerns, on the one hand, the report by the Open-ended Working Group, which Belgium has not adopted and, on the other hand, the resolution calling for negotiations to start from 2017 leading to international nuclear disarmament. What is the reason why Belgium did not agree to the report? What is Belgium's position on the motion for a resolution? What is the EU's position and what is NATO's position on this proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u25	Mr President, I begin by answering Mr Hellings' question on paragraph 53 of the final communiqué of the NATO Summit. To put things in context, I will read the entire text of paragraph 53: "The objective of the Allies is to strengthen deterrence as one of the central elements of collective defence and to contribute to the indivisible security of the Alliance. As long as there are nuclear weapons, NATO will remain a nuclear alliance. The Alliance's strategic forces, and in particular those of the United States, are the supreme guarantee of Allied security. The independent strategic nuclear forces of the United Kingdom and France have their own deterrent role and contribute to the overall security of the Alliance. The separate decision-making centres of these Allies contribute to deterrence by complicating the calculations of potential adversaries. NATO's nuclear deterrence posture is also based, in part, on the nuclear weapons of the United States deployed forward in Europe, as well as on the capabilities and infrastructure made available by the Allies concerned. These Allies will ensure that all elements of NATO's nuclear deterrence remain safe, secure and effective. This will require continued leadership and institutional excellence in the nuclear deterrence mission, as well as planning guidelines that meet the requirements of the twenty-first century. The Alliance shall ensure the widest possible participation of the Allies concerned in the agreed arrangements for burden-sharing in the nuclear field." It is therefore a little more contextualised in relation to the whole problem. Indeed, the sentence to which you refer must be read in this context, which explains very clearly the policy that the twenty-eight Heads of State and Government of the Alliance confirmed on that occasion. As in the past, Belgium will continue to favour a multilateral approach to its security policy. This is reflected in, among other things, our strong commitment within the Atlantic Alliance; nuclear deterrence policy remains a key element – I mentioned the supreme guarantee – of the Alliance's overall defence, alongside conventional capabilities and missile defence. It is also important to stress that Belgium, both in this context and in the context of its contributions to external operations, intends to remain a loyal and credible ally, today and tomorrow. It is about ensuring our vital interests and the safety of our people in the long term. On the other hand, this sentence should not be seen more than what is written. It explains that the United States, as part of NATO's nuclear deterrence posture, has weapons deployed in Europe to the territory of a number of affected Allies. These weapons complement the strategic weapons of the United States, the United Kingdom and France. They participate in the demonstration of solidarity between the Allies. This sentence does not deny or confirm the possible stockpiling of United States nuclear weapons in Belgium, nor does it specify when such weapons may be possible to dispense with in order to ensure our security. You understand that this kind of decision will depend on a set of factors, among which the evolution of relations between the nuclear Powers will not be least. In this communiqué, the Allies also confirmed that as long as there are nuclear weapons, NATO will remain a nuclear Alliance. I would remind you that Belgium supports the objective of the complete elimination of nuclear weapons but wants to work towards this objective in an effective and realistic way. Reductions must be verifiable and irreversible, granted on both sides. To date, the circumstances conducive to the achievement of this goal of universal nuclear disarmament are far from being met. I would also point out that in the past the Atlantic Alliance has made considerable efforts, both in terms of reducing the number of nuclear weapons and in terms of strategic dependence on them. It is regrettable that these efforts did not serve as an example for other actors, as stressed by the Alliance's Heads of State and Government in 2010, at the Lisbon Summit, which endorsed the strategic concept in which we are still operating today. A unilateral approach to disarmament would serve neither the interests of the Alliance nor those of Belgium. Can you imagine what might happen if we did so lightly? I assure you that there is no contradiction between this NATO policy and the Non-Proliferation Treaty, neither in its letter nor in its spirit. Belgium has also participated actively and constructively in the work of the United Nations Working Group on Nuclear Disarmament. Like the vast majority of European Union countries, Belgium voted against the recommendation to hold a conference in 2017 to negotiate a legally binding instrument to ban nuclear weapons. As part of the work of the First Committee at the UN, Belgium will not support the resolution establishing a mandate for such negotiations in 2017. Belgium is working for a world without nuclear weapons but is seeking to achieve this goal effectively. Compliance with the Non-Proliferation Treaty remains a key element of our policy. The negotiation of a nuclear-weapon-free treaty would not be conducive to achieving that ultimate goal. On the contrary, the Treaty could undermine the political will to implement the Non-Proliferation Treaty. Nuclear-weapon States would not participate in such negotiations. Since nuclear weapons are the weapon of deterrence par excellence, nuclear disarmament cannot be decreed by a purely declaratory prohibition. Nuclear disarmament can only be built and achieved on the basis of verifiable and irreversible reductions. That is why our attention must be focused on concrete, verifiable and legally binding disarmament agreements between the nuclear-weapon States. Furthermore, Belgium is linked to the decisions taken on several occasions by the Heads of State and Government of NATO Member States. NATO's deterrence policy continues to be based on a combination of conventional and nuclear forces. I repeat, as long as nuclear weapons exist, NATO will remain a nuclear alliance. The alliance has made considerable efforts in the past, both in terms of reducing the number of nuclear weapons and in terms of their strategic dependence. One cannot make the same determination for, for example, Russia on paper, the country with the largest nuclear arsenal in the world, or China. However, as long as there are nuclear weapons, NATO will remain a nuclear alliance. In the current global European security environment, Belgium will not unilaterally ban nuclear weapons forming part of the alliance's common security policy. Belgium is in favour of a multilateral approach to its security policy. Finally, I would like to say that Belgium is actively in favour of an EU position on nuclear disarmament. However, the European Union is divided on the issue of a nuclear weapons ban. Only a small minority of European states support this idea. It is always possible for a specific parliament to take a very specific position, which is the case in many different areas, but one must try to achieve a general position of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u26	Mr Minister, it is certain that the time is not ripe for nuclear disarmament, although the agreement between the United States, the European Union and Iran is a notable precedent. Nevertheless, if no one takes the first step, and the multilateral approach that you advocate is a trap in this regard, we will not move forward. You speak of lightness in the hypothesis that our state would act like Greece in 2001 or Canada, which is an essential ally because it is a neighbour to the United States, which has withdrawn American weapons from their respective soil under bilateral agreements. But they did not act lightly, contrary to what you support. Second, being a loyal and credible ally, to use your expression, is not a strategic posture, but a politically weak attitude. This is not a reason to act militarily, because it amounts to being deprived of political autonomy and opting for follow-up. Finally, I had the opportunity to participate this summer in France in a meeting at the University of Defense. French nuclear deterrence was discussed. Ministers themselves recalled the enormous financial impact that the renewal of French nuclear weapons would have on Defence. Yes, the French Minister of Defence and Prime Minister Manuel Valls have said so. So this is not only a military, strategic or security issue, but also a budget issue. This is in addition to the long list of difficulties that we may face as a result of the maintenance of nuclear weapons in the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answers. Your position is clear. I can hear your reasoning and arguments about the resolution and the dangers you have raised, particularly with regard to the Non-Proliferation Treaty, even if I do not share them. With regard to the Conference, I do not understand your refusal. It can lead to reflection, not to a specific framework. It would have been wise for me to vote in favour of him. I therefore regret the position taken by our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u28	Minister, I must say that I too regret Belgium's attitude. You always talk about a multilateral approach, but what is your definition of multilateral? If we see that there was an initiative from that special UN working group in August, we are at UN level, and that 107 countries have adopted this report, that seems to me to be the essence of a multilateral, broad-based approach. This is not an initiative of one, two or three isolated countries. As I said earlier, a number of NATO Member States and a number of European Member States have also adopted a more favourable attitude. Multilaterally, therefore, we are evolving in a certain direction, with a clear position which Belgium seems to be consistently distancing itself from. That is regrettable. Moreover, it is not the case that, if we move towards a stronger legal framework on nuclear disarmament, we will immediately, from today to tomorrow, move towards a ban. That is not the case at all. Nor am I in favour of unilateral nuclear disarmament by NATO. Of course not. However, it would strengthen the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons if Belgium were to engage in such initiatives. I am also pleased to hear that a majority party in this country is also paying attention to this issue and is asking questions about our country's attitude to this issue. I believe that you could at least find a basis in Parliament for taking a number of steps in that multilateral direction, which is very clear at UN level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Mr De Vriendt compliments us on our ability to think as a government party. Thank you. I really appreciate that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u30	Mr President, Minister, last July you officially launched the start of the lobbying campaign so that Belgium could sit on the UN Security Council as a non-permanent representative. Two seats are to be filled between the three countries that have applied: Israel, Germany and our country. In your view, the strength of the Belgian candidacy is Belgium's ability to find compromises. Minister, can you describe your strategy so that Belgium can win one of these two seats? Can you give us the important future deadlines for the Belgian application? Do you plan to take a tour of the capitals in order to boast the strengths of our country's candidacy?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u31	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, as you have pointed out, there are three candidates for the two non-permanent vacancies for the group of Western European and other countries for the period 2019-2020: Belgium, Israel and Germany. The vote will take place in June 2018. You will understand that, in this competitive context, it is not appropriate to disclose the entire campaign strategy in detail, but a Belgian asset of weight is our ability, which we are still trying to demonstrate hour after hour, to forge consensus. Belgium, as a founding member of the United Nations, will continue its positive approach on the basis of many years of commitment to peace and security. We can also count on our country's expertise on a number of international security issues; I am thinking first of conflict prevention and mediation. We will hold an international conference on mediation in Brussels in February 2017. Other elements at the heart of our foreign policy, such as the promotion and protection of human rights, the prevention of terrorism and the fight against violent extremism, the protection of the civilian population in crisis zones, the rule of law and sustainable development, will also be highlighted in our campaign. Our campaign for the Security Council began officially last October in Brussels. In July, I also launched the campaign at the United Nations in New York, in the presence of Queen Mathilde. On this occasion, the Belgian logo, a combination of a dove of peace and a pen, and our campaign slogan, "Forge consensus, build peace" were presented to the international community. I recognize that for quite a few generations, the dove as it appeared in blue, the colour of the United Nations, was like the blue bird of Maeterlinck or some canvases of Magritte. It seems that for younger generations, this presence on our logo is more like Twitter. It's a bit different. We continue to work actively to secure the support of voting countries through intensive bilateral contacts. Belgian diplomacy as a whole is mobilized for this purpose. I have recently appointed a special envoy to assist in the overall coordination and further deployment of the campaign. I am obviously systematically addressing the subject of our candidacy in my bilateral contacts. In response to your question, I can confirm my intention to undertake more targeted trips to the capitals of the voting countries in order to plead in person for our candidacy. If the official campaign was launched relatively shortly ago, I can confirm to you that, since I took office in Foreign Affairs at the end of 2011, I have relayed this application process in all my bilateral contacts. Indeed, it is quite old and is the subject of discussions with partners on the international scene. We are going to move forward on this. It will probably be useful for a little more detailed information on the elements that we are putting forward to the committee. I am ready to do so, especially with our special envoy. In parliamentary contacts, I believe that there are also a number of steps to be taken that can be very useful. I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I believe that parliamentary diplomacy must also serve that purpose. It is therefore a document that will be very interesting, because everyone, in the context of his contacts, the Inter-Parliamentary Union or other international organizations, must support this approach. For my part, I will continue to defend this seat.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now at the end of this sitting. Minister, I counted quickly and there are about 90 questions left open. I would like to make you a constructive proposal, with a double motion. I will send a letter to Members asking them if they wish to translate their oral questions into a written question. I ask you for a date for answering oral questions before the budget talks begin. Otherwise, I fear that a very long series of questions will remain unanswered at the end of the year. If you can instruct your staff to set a date, we can ensure that the agenda is completed with oral questions before the budget negotiations begin.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u34	Okay, okay, okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic513x.u35	Thank you.
