ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u1	Minister, a month ago it was announced that Belgium and the Netherlands would deepen their marine cooperation through joint purchases of four frigates and twelve mine hunters. Belgium takes the lead in purchasing the mine hunters and the Netherlands takes the lead in purchasing the frigates. The total cost of the purchase would be EUR 4 billion. We all know that you have signed a cooperation agreement on this matter with your Dutch colleague. Minister, I have the following questions for you. Firstly, by when is the purchase of these frigates and mine hunters planned? Secondly, how will the costs of purchase and the costs of subsequent maintenance be distributed? A joint purchase will and must reduce the cost. Can you estimate the cost savings that the joint purchase will bring, both in terms of purchase and maintenance? Thirdly, what impact will this have on the staff, especially on the crew and the status of our marines, but also on training?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u2	Minister, the Netherlands and Belgium have taken the first step together in replacing mine hunters. The agreement is that the project management is in Dutch hands for the replacement of the frigates. For the replacement of the mine hunters, that leadership is in Belgian hands. On 30 November 2016, you signed a letter or intent together with your Dutch colleague. That is why I would like to have an answer to the following questions. I shall drop a few questions, since the letter or intent has already been delivered to us through the committee secretariat, for which I thank you. Firstly, it strikes me that the numbers that are always mentioned are not specified in the letter, namely four frigates and twelve mine hunters over both countries. Can the number of cases still be adjusted or is this not yet established? Have you discussed the distribution of costs? Are you aiming for a 50/50 distribution? The processes for replacement have not been the same in Belgium and the Netherlands in recent months. The replacement seems to us to be very concrete. This is clearly not the case in the Netherlands. Belgium already provided a budget for the replacement of frigates and mine hunters. The Netherlands allocates EUR 700 million for the replacement of the frigates. Have you already asked when the Netherlands will budget the remaining EUR 1.3 billion? You are providing EUR 932 million for the replacement of the mine warriors. According to some sources, this is heavily overrated. The Finnish Navy recently bought three mine hunters for 250 million euros. How can you explain the difference in estimates? Or are there completely different types and equipment of these vessels?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u3	On 30 November 2016, I signed with my Dutch colleague a letter of intent in which both countries formally confirm their intention to jointly replace the mine-fighting vessels and the frigates. The starting point of this LOI is not only cooperation in the field of acquisition but also in the field of research, development and maintenance of the replacement capacity of frigates and mine fighting. The LOI was delivered to the members of the Defence Committee on 8 December. In line with the strategic vision, investments for the purchase of frigates and mine-fighting ships are planned for the period 2017-2030. This allows a replacement of mine control capacity from 2023 and of the frigates from 2025. The investment budget, based on a constant euro in 2015, is 1.29 billion euros for frigates and 932 million euros, also in constant euros in 2015, for mine control capacity. Budgeting in the Netherlands is currently ongoing. They know a different process than we do. We have made our needs analysis in the Strategic Vision and have determined on that basis that we are going for 6 plus 2. The Dutch are still making that exercise. The notebooks have yet to be drawn up. That seems obvious to me. That's also in the letter or intent. It is not possible to put concrete figures on the savings, but it is clear that the joint acquisition with the Netherlands should offer a economies of scale, with a positive impact on costs. I expect the greatest savings in operating, staffing and infrastructure costs by centralising the support services on shore, both the operational command, the staff, the schools and the maintenance companies, in one of the two countries and providing support to the binational fleet, as is the case today. This joint procurement and joint use will enable the in-depth synergies in all areas, which are currently existing between our two Navys and which are a global benchmark for defence cooperation, to be maintained. The comparison with the Finnish programme is difficult because the contract with which Finland purchased three coastal mine-fighting vessels dates back to 2006 and the technology and operational concept have now evolved sharply, which will affect cost. The fact is that the MCM concept that we address is a concept where, for example, logistics support ships are no longer needed. The Godethiah will fall into it. In reality, the new concept will allow us to maintain the same level of ambition with six new MCM vessels, instead of today eight plus a support vessel.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that a number of matters still need to be clarified with the Dutch. It goes without saying that we will have a fair distribution of burdens and desires there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u5	That's right. I am sorry to interrupt you, but that seems so obvious to me that I forget to answer that part of the question. It goes without saying that in the end everyone pays for the costs of their vessels. That's a reasonable distribution. You have read in the letter of intent that agreements have also been reached on the participation of the mutual economic partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u6	Without speaking out about the Dutch, I think that we should not only be careful about the level of ambition, but also about the distribution of costs, which should be transparent. This is an important area that will also be addressed in other areas in the future. That is why it is important to be sufficiently vigilant. I am, of course, confident that you will do so in a good way. What we are also very interested in is the efficiency that will be achieved by this increase in scale. We look forward to the figures that will follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand from your reply that the Dutch have not yet definitively fixed the numbers, because you say it is still ongoing. Since the first investment expenditure is planned in the period 2017-2030, I think that, despite the elections in the Netherlands in April 2017, further steps need to be taken quickly. After all, the distribution of costs is linked to that. If the Dutch suddenly decide to hire fewer vessels, which alters the ratio, this will affect the distribution of costs. Costs may be allocated per vessel, but research and development costs are more difficult to classify and estimate precisely. Like you, I am convinced that scaling up and cooperation between the two countries is indeed rational. The figures will indicate whether that is true in the future. Your answer on Finland's vessels is sufficient for me. I will look into the details of the differences, but I can understand that the costs are different.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u8	I think it is important that we understand each other well. What's signed today is a letter of intent. We commit ourselves to this process together. That is a first international step, and then the next step. What can we do now? Work is currently under way on the preparation of the MOUs on cost-sharing and so on. In the Netherlands they have their own budgeting. Those resources shall be committed to them immediately. That's another process. They work directly through Parliament for this sort of thing. That's what's gonna happen. I do not doubt there, but if you ask me for an estimate of the numbers, I do not suspect that the Netherlands, which still has a little more coastline and ports like us, will drastically reduce in numbers, quite the contrary. However, they already have a number of programmes in the pipeline, such as the replacement of F-16. They have also chosen to retain their capacity under the sea, for which they also need resources. It's less a matter of taking saved shares in who's going to do what, but having more eye for timing. Who's gonna come for who and when? These are matters on which clear agreements need to be made. On the basis of this LOI, we can at least set up our project teams, which can then start working on this story.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u9	For the sake of completeness, by when would one be done with those MOUALES?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u10	I have stated on several occasions that I intend to launch a number of routes effectively. I assume that we should be able to award that study in 2018. This means that the MOUS should be completed in 2017. This of course depends on the conduct of the elections in the Netherlands. It is my ambition, however, to start the study during this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u11	Mr President, Minister, as my question is already dated November 15, you will allow me to update it somewhat. On November 16, the agenda of our National Defence Commission was to hold a debate on your bill on military investment programming for the period 2016-2030. Following a legal opinion of the services of the House requested by my group on the latter, you have decided to postpone this point. If I will, of course, come back to the substance of such a project in the debates on its return to committee, I would like to ask you, Minister, the following questions on form. How do you explain the absence of an opinion of the Council of State in the context of such a project of more than 9 billion euros when it is deposited on our banks? What follow-up do you intend to reserve to the least clear opinion given since then by the Council of State that the following governments will not be bound by the current decisions? You are also announcing, I think, that you want to conclude as many contracts as possible by the end of the legislature. What are you thinking about in particular?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u12	Mr President, Mr Pirlot, although the military programming law does not replace the annual budget law, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, it is clear that this law is of a budgetary nature since it is investment, as you say in your question. Moreover, in my view, it is a purely formal law. The Vademecum of the Council of State states in this respect on page 5: "The Section of Legislation is in principle not competent to give opinions on legislative proposals or drafts which do not constitute substantive laws or, in other words, do not contain mandatory standards of general application, i.e. which do not concern an indeterminate group of citizens. Thus, the Legislation Section is not competent for proposals or draft legislation relating to the budget, accounts, etc." In the discussion in the Council of Ministers, this view was endorsed. In the meantime, the bill has been forwarded to the Council of State. We have received the comments and are now working to amend the project based on this advice from the Council of State. The judgment of the Council of State is not invincible to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u13	Minister, when you mentioned the conclusion of as many contracts as possible by the end of the legislature, were you thinking about certain contracts in particular?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u14	This is the replacement of F-16s, ships, drones and major investments in the Earth Component.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u15	Thank you for your answer. You will not remove me from the idea that the Council of State has rightly said that future governments would not necessarily be linked to these decisions. But this is, no doubt, a difference of interpretation!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u16	As far as I am concerned, I am confronted with the question of the Airbus A400M on which I have an opinion which I do not wish to express.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u17	You're starting to behave like a member of the CD&V!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u18	In any case, I already pay and will continue to pay for the years to come. I'm sure they'll be deployed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u19	We'll talk about it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u20	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns compensation for military personnel in operation. When military personnel are deployed in operation, they will receive compensation that depends on the level in which they are located. A coefficient is linked to this partial position which determines the amount of the fee. For example, an active military assistance training mission is linked to coefficient 2. A force protection command is then passive armed deployment, with coefficient 4. For example, a training assignment in the unstable Central African Republic may be compensated significantly less than a force protection assignment in equally unstable Mali. I asked you a written question about this and you replied to me that the legal framework only allows the nature of the assignment to be considered when determining the level of the military and hence the level of the remuneration and not the risk of the assignment. So it would be about the nature of the assignment that is all-important. First of all, do you think this is a fair system? Of course, the objective risk of military service being commissioned does not depend solely on the nature of the assignment. Secondly, are you prepared to include any other factors in determining the amount of compensation, such as the duration of the assignment, the absence of residence and, above all, the security situation? Thirdly, is the ACOS capable of making security assessments of the deployment zones of our military? Can they be used to assess the danger to our military during their mission, possibly with calibration and harmonisation of reporting? Fourthly, are you prepared to consider or support an amendment to this effect? Why is that, or why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u21	Mr President, Mr De Vriendt, the law of 20 May 1994 on the rights of the military and the Royal Decree of 18 March 2003 on the remuneration of the military were negotiated and consulted with the trade unions. Defense is applying this law and this RB rigorously. The operational deployment of military personnel abroad, accompanied by the granting of a financial statute, is also approved by the Council of Ministers. As mentioned in my reply to your written question 799 of 27 July 2016, it is very difficult to clearly list the differences in security measures between different assignments. The security risks that a military officer would run are assessed not only on the basis of the security situation on the ground, but also on the basis of the circumstances in which the military must carry out his mission.... I give the example works from a compound or not... and of the reactions expected from the military in carrying out their mission, for example intervene in the first line or not. You ask me if I am inclined to change that in the short term. I myself do not have that ambition, Mr De Vriendt. I recognise the problems you raise, but I also recognise the elements that I have just given in my reply and, above all, the fact that the law and the Royal Decree itself came into being after negotiations with the social partners. Moreover, the result is ultimately something that is workable and unambiguous. If you want to take initiatives in this area, I will look at them with all goodwill and give advice. However, assume that these kinds of regulations are the result of a long preparation, the continuous search for balances and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u22	Mr Minister, what if there was a willingness within the trade unions to review this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u23	I think there will always be willingness on the part of trade unions to increase fees.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u24	But inside the same envelope?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u25	I'd like to take a look at proposals. I am just saying that I have a number of yards and I have learned from my grandfather before that one has to pay attention to how much hay one takes on one's fork. That woman was still working with a pitchfork. I've learned to watch out for too much hay. As you know, I have a habit of playing with the trade unions fairly briefly and trying to achieve a number of things and to work together. At the beginning of the legislature we asked what were the elements in which they saw problems and which they wanted to solve in the short term. That list is being worked on. If there are other initiatives, I'd like to assess them. I'm just keeping in mind that we shouldn't take too much action. I myself am not going to take any initiative in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u26	I understand that, of course, and I also understand that this must depend on social dialogue. But just from a number of trade unions we have received the signal that there are injustices in the current regime and that it would actually be more logical to use the risk of the contract as a criterion, more than the nature of the contract. The ACOS-IS also makes safety reports anyway. Maybe we can base ourselves on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u27	I'm really not involuntary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u28	I understand and interpret it that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u29	But you have to assume that the nature of the assignment is determined for the entire mission. The risk of the assignment is very volatile. This must be taken into account if we want to take greater account of the risk. The stock is allocated on the basis of an KB, discussed in the Council of Ministers. It must also be a system that provides some legal certainty and is manageable. You can imagine that certain situations can greatly change the level of risk from day to day. In the current way, it is not obvious to take this into account at all times. I'd like to look into your initiatives. I would like to give advice on this, but it is not easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u30	I understand that this is certainly an element that is involved, but we will look at it further. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u31	Mr President, Minister, the civil aviation sector will grow worldwide over the next decades. On Thursday 17 November last, Brussels Airport Company presented its expansion plans for the Belgian international airport. It wants to grow the airport economically by 2040, i.e. more movements, more flights, larger aircraft. That is good, we believe, because it will provide more jobs and therefore more prosperity in the region and in our country. The BruMil military airport is also located at and/or next to Brussels Airport and uses all of Brussels Airport's available infrastructure. However, BruMil is not mentioned in the Brussels Airport growth plans. I find that a little strange, because there could be a win-win situation if BruMil could grow with it or make its areas partially or entirely available to Brussels Airport. In that context, I have the following questions for you. Has there been any consultation between yourself and the Minister of Mobility on the possible further integration of BruMil's areas into Brussels Airport? Have there been any discussions between the Defence Staff and Brussels Airport Company about possible further cooperation? If so, what were the results of that consultation? You have a plan ready to close down, relocate or expand a number of Defense branches. Has there been any study in this context to further integrate BruMil's sites into Brussels Airport and the activities such as maintenance of the airport and I would also like to ask Mr Pirlot to have the new A400M devices carried out elsewhere, for example in Beauvechain?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u32	Mr President, Mr Vandenput, there has been no discussion between myself and the Minister for Mobility on the possible further integration of BruMil's areas in Brussels Airport. According to the information available to us, the development of Brussels Airport has no impact on BruMil's activities. The Defence Staff held talks with the competent services of Brussels Airport Company for the strategic development of the airport in connection with the arrival and accommodation of the A400M aircraft. As I have just said, the military airport is not an obstacle to this development. The Strategic Vision 2040 of Brussels Airport Company is in line with the conversations conducted. As previously reported in the Commission of 21 September 2016 and many times earlier, the implementation plan on the evolution of the future geographical distribution of quarters is a priority for the government. This will take into account the Strategic Vision, the coalition agreement and the well-being of the staff. The proposal on this subject is currently being updated in order to make a final political decision, but I think I will go further into a later question today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I urge BruMil to take initiatives to sit with BAC. I know that BAC has a number of requests from airlines for maintenance work to be carried out in pilots that do not have it at all today. I believe that we can move towards modern public cooperation in this area and that the major pilots you intend to build could also be used for civil aviation purposes only for the A400M. If you or perhaps BAC were to take the initiative to talk about this without the BruMil airport disappearing, synergies could still be considered. I think this would be good, even for the employment inside and outside of Defense.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u34	Mr de Vandeput, I will reply to you on item 16. I can give you much more clarification. It is a pity that the two questions were not merged. Mr President, normally I am not allowed to intervene in the work, but may I make a suggestion on the agenda? In fact, item 16 was better merged with this question. If Members agree, we can conclude this debate by putting questions to the vote. 15437 and 15454. Mr Buysrogge and Mr Pirlot are both present.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u35	All right. Mr Pirlot, you can ask your question now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u36	Minister, at the meeting of our committee on 31 November, I asked you about your budget and in particular about the 9.2 billion investments in your general policy note and, more specifically, about the €88.6 million that will be released in 2017 out of the €200 million promised by the government. On this occasion, I was asking you about where we were with the construction of the hangars necessary for the imminent reception of the A400M. In our joint replies with my esteemed colleague Alain Top, I quote: "The A400Ms are indeed lagging behind, but measures are being taken to keep the C-130s operational pending the A400Ms". This legitimately synthetic response in the light of the general context of the work has asked me, and I would therefore like to know more about this specific subject. Can you complete this information? Is there a delay in the delivery of the A400Ms, or is there a delay in the construction of the hangars to accommodate them or both? What progress has been made in the reception of the A400Ms on Belgian soil and their implementation and the work involved? Will new studies on the different possible locations (and their logistical impact in terms of costs) be requested or has a final decision been taken by the government? In advance, I thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u37	Indeed, Minister, it is true that the questions asked and possibly your answer also builds on Mr Vandenput's question. Mr Pirlot, I think a small mistake was made. As far as I'm aware, November 31th doesn't exist. So it was the committee meeting of 30 November.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u38	Compared to the announced delay of the A400M, we are not close to a day! But I'm glad you read me. [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u39	Minister, I will confine myself to my punctual questions, which build on the answer that has already been given. First of all, have there been any mention of any possible cooperation in the field of military air transport? If so, how many? When do you expect answers? Secondly, is private public cooperation possible? Is there a budget for this? Thirdly, do you consider the operation of the A400M and commercial aircraft, also called the white fleet, and the announced multi-role tanker aircraft in this cooperation to be separate files? Looking forward to a total solution with one private partner? Fourthly, will these activities still take place in Melsbroek or is a total or partial relocation possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u40	Thank you, Mr President, for your cooperation. I think it is important that we deal with these questions together. This will give Mr Vandenput more information in response to his question. Mr Pirlot, the production and delivery of the A400M is progressing well. However, there is some delay in the delivery of the A400M. In line with the strategic vision, Defence has begun to study the various avenues for financing the infrastructure project, including a public-private partnership for the construction of the infrastructure. A feasibility study had been carried out and military prospecting was currently under way. A request for information was sent to a non-exhaustive list of some 15 firms which may offer a solution in terms of infrastructure and technical support for aircraft. So it's a combination of both. The responses are expected during the first trimester of 2017. The progress made in preparing the delivery of the A400M on Belgian soil is numerous and follows the prescribed timetable. A lot of decisions regarding the technical-logistics support will be taken as early as 2017, like among others, the equipment of the ground supports, the documentation system, the international logistics support, the reservation of the training slots for the navigating and non-navigating personnel. The commercial aircraft, also called the white fleet, and the announced multi-role tanker aircraft are considered separate files. A total solution with one private partner for all these acquisitions is not on the table. As you know, we are carrying out a feasibility analysis on the white fleet, with a different type of partner than for the maintenance of the operational aircraft. In the case of the multi-role tanker aircraft, the entry into the European project is ongoing. You will understand that the scale, whether we board for one aircraft or for a number of hours of one aircraft, is not that we would set up the complete logistics backbone ourselves. As I have always said, and as it is written in the Strategic Vision, the multi-role tanker is mainly seen in a European context, along with others, as our white fleet is actually already registered in the EATC. Now comes the big news. The A400M and the commercial fleet will operate in principle from Melsbroek.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u41	I would just like to ask a small supplementary question. Do you have an idea of the approximate time frame for the first deliveries of A400M?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u42	Today, there are some difficulties in reception for the latest specificities. But things are going on. Normally, it will start in 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u43	Thank you for this additional information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your specific, concrete answers to my question. This dossier will certainly be followed up in the course of 2017 in order to know how the concrete cooperation will then take place. I am certainly pleased to hear that there is a commitment in this respect that the A400M will be able to continue to fly from Melsbroek. This is important for the airport in the broad sense of the word, when it is seen that, for example, freight transport is also under pressure. We heard today the news that a number of flights would disappear in Zaventem. The commitment that is being made today is therefore important for the future of the airport and of Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u45	Mr. Minister, on 21 November 2016, Lockheed Martin published a message on his website announcing that it has signed a contract with South Korea to upgrade 134 F-16. According to Lockheed Martin, the upgrades are crucial for South Korean defense. In recent years, not only South Korea, but also Greece, Turkey, Egypt, Taiwan and Singapore have shown interest in upgrading their F-16 performances. Lockheed Martin expects a lot of contracts to be added in the coming years. The contract with South Korea stipulates that the 134 fighter planes will be updated for 1.2 billion dollars. By plane, the cost is almost $9 million. Updating 60 planes would mean a cost of about 540 million dollars. The number of flight hours is extended to 12 000 hours of flight time, which is estimated to be good for an additional use of 20 years. First of all, are you aware of the contract between Lockheed Martin and South Korea? Secondly, are you prepared to request more information from Lockheed Martin to see if such upgrade is possible for our defense?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u46	Mr Top, I thought we might have had that discussion by now, but I shall go into it again. The contract between the South Korean Air Force and Lockheed Martin is known to me. It's about an upgrade of planes that are 20 years younger than ours and fundamentally different. These are updates that were integrated into our own Belgian F-16 chassis some time ago, so that the aircraft could remain operationally relevant at the end of the next decade. In this respect, please feel free to regard the South Korean contract as a catch-up. As far as the modification programme is concerned, I refer to my answers to oral parliamentary questions No. 10975 of popular representative Wouter Devriendt of 21 April 2016, nr. 11258 of popular representative Georges Dallemagne of 2 May 2016 and nr. 11938 of popular representative Caroline Grosemans of 27 May 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, but on a case you go with a big turn or try to avoid it. In your reply, you referred to a number of answers and said that you are aware of the recent events, that the aircraft in question are younger and that updates are being proposed as our aircraft have received. However, that message also stated that the life of the aircraft was to be increased from 8 000 to 12 000 hours of flight time. I didn't get that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u48	Mr Top, read the answers I have already given! It's about fundamentally a different kind of plane. Our F 16s are from 1980 and are now 36 years old. Theirs are from the 2000s. That's another plane.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u49	Then you stick to the statement that our planes cannot be updated to 12 000 hours of flight time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u50	That is what I said in my answer to questions No. 11938, No. 11258 and No. 10975. I have no reason to give another answer today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u51	Minister, 20 of the 82 pilots on Melsbroek would already have plans to make the switch to private life. This would be a direct consequence of the government's intentions to increase the retirement age for military workers to 63 years. The advantages for the military are thus removed, which means that they are considering a switch to the private sector. A soldier does not earn spectacularly much and has to work in difficult circumstances. In private firms, for example as a pilot, one does not have to operate above a war zone and one has a fixed timetable. However, the DOD would have the opportunity to refuse discharge when operationality is at risk. I would like an answer to the following questions. Is there already a clear increase in staff who have resigned since the government declaration in October? A lot of expertise, such as the expertise of pilots and technicians, threatens to leave the DOD. If that scenario were to occur, what measures would you take? Can you confirm that the Department of Defense can refuse discharge? If yes, who or what determines when operationality is compromised? Do you intend to recruit more targeted? How can you do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u52	Mr Top, I understand that you are asking your question about people who would have plans to leave the Ministry of Defence, because they would have to work beyond their 56 years and then have to work for at least 63 years. The logic is right there. In 2015, the number of on-demand recruitments, i.e. on-demand dismissal, on-demand retirement or on-demand termination, was 147. For the period from 1 January 2016 to 30 November 2016, the number of recruitments on application was 177. There has therefore been an increase in the number of on-demand recruitments over the year, but there is absolutely no way to say that it has anything to do with the October government declaration, because there has not been a substantial increase since mid-October. The dismissal of the military shall be governed by Article 52 of the Act of 28 February 2007 establishing the status of the military and candidate soldiers of the active military framework. It provides that dismissals may be refused if they are contrary to the interests of the service. It shall be for the public authorities, competent to approve or refuse such dismissal, to assess any conflict with the interests of the service. However, the law provides that dismissal is always contrary to the interests of the service if the military concerned has served for less than three years after its basic formation, or a training giving rise to the performance of a return period. Where the military concerned has completed its period of return, dismissal shall be refused only exceptionally. The examination of the dismissal records shall always consider whether the person concerned has completed his period of return. That seems pretty obvious to me. If this is the case, refusal shall be made only if the departure of the person concerned could jeopardise the proper functioning of the defence. The pressure on Defence's budget, combined with the needs in the various areas such as investment, operation and personnel, has ensured that priority functions are taken up in recent years and not defence-wide. As a result of the announcement of pension measures, the various elements of the pension plans should be closely monitored. It's obvious, too. There are indeed soldiers who, as one might say, opt for the flight ahead, but there are also soldiers who want to work or work longer. Having said that, I also get a lot of questions from people who are obliged to retire today, but who would like to stay longer, for whatever reason. Indeed, through social media, e-mail and official channels, I have been asked by many soldiers to work longer and remain in service.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed explanation of the regulations in the event of dismissal. I want to replicate one thing. It is not just the increase in retirement age in this case or the choices made by soldiers or others in such situations. An employee makes his choice not only on the basis of the effective retirement age, but on the basis of the sum of everything. This concerns working conditions, wages, atmosphere and security of working conditions. If there is any doubt about that, then those choices will be made. This is not just about retirement age.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u54	Minister, I quote a passage from your strategic vision on page 140: "After this strategic vision, an implementation plan for the evolution of the geographical implantation of quarters will be presented to the Council of Ministers for the duration of the strategic vision. It is important that the trade unions, corps commanders, adjutants and corps corporals consider the implementation of these adjustments as representatives of the staff concerned." The staff of the 1 Element for Medical Intervention in Lombardsijde were informed that the unit might close in mid-2017. Staff must mutate. Since there is talk of collective closure, the trade unions should be involved, as provided for in Article 42 of the G1 Act. Minister, why will that unit possibly close in 2017? If that decision is taken, I wonder how medical support will be assured for the units in that region. Where will the staff involved be employed in the future and what timing are we talking about effectively? When will an action plan on staff changes be drawn up? What is the reason for possible closure? There would be a shortage of officers in the fields of Medical Support and Medical Techniques. However, the table I requested shows with a parliamentary question that at that time there were 52 officers of Medical Support and 164 officers of Medical Techniques. So where did those staff go at the moment? When will the trade unions be involved and why has this not happened before?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u55	Mr. Minister, the commander of the medical component proposes to the Chief of Defense to close the 1 EMI and have the personnel mutated from mid 2017. This is reflected in an internal note dated 28 October 2016, addressed to human resources and ACCOS Operations and Training. 1 EMI consists of about 230 employees, distributed: in Lombardsijde there are about 180 employees, in Zeebrugge some 40 and some in Koksijde and in Poelkapelle. After closure, the nearest medical unit is that of Peutie, 130 kilometers away. Firstly, the internal note exists, is available and accessible. Can you confirm the proposal of the commander of the medical component? Is there an answer to the letter from the General Staff or from you, the Chief of Defense? Secondly, what will happen? Do you support the commander of the medical component's proposal to make the medical unit disappear there? Thirdly, what implications would this have for the performance of the medical component in general and more specifically of the SAR in Koksijde or the marine component in Zeebrugge? Fourthly, why should the medical unit there disappear? A number of arguments are listed in the letter. Mr Top has set out a number of them. Can you give us a more detailed explanation? Fifth, this proposal was published without any consultation with the staff and would mean the second major restructuring in six years' time. How is that possible? This shows little respect for the military, because we are perfectly aware of the existence of the proposal and of that note. That's causing a lot of concern. Sixth, what future does defence have in West Flanders? Why can't we leave the marine component, which is by definition associated with West Flanders, along the coast and in the province, to build a strong unique presence of defence from there? Seventhly, do you agree that an anchoring and a good distribution of the units, the bases, the barracks in Belgium is a significant factor in recruiting new people and young people?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, with the internal note, which we have indeed been able to consult on Mr De Vriendt's website, we have seen that apparently the commander of the medical component to recipients was not the Minister of Defence, nor the cabinet of the Minister of Defence or an employee of the Minister of Defence, who asked the Minister of Defence to find a common solution to a personnel problem in 2017. Questioning teaches me that the process is currently under way. The Medical Component wants to better prepare for its mission in the coming years by working more closely with the customer units through integrated trainings within the supported units. On the other hand, the Medical Component wants to save on supporting tasks by centralising and outsourcing, where possible, a general movement in Defence. Centralisation may result in a reduction in the number of bars and units depending on the installation of customer units. The note, which you have easier access to than I do, also clearly states that the personnel problem is an officer problem. You may be surprised, but I don't name every officer. Maybe that's what happened in the past. I know ministers where that happened after the weekend, but it is not the case with me. In the short term, there is a shortage of officers in the Medical Component. Additional recruitment has taken place in recent years, but the consequences will only be visible in the units from 2030 through the training of officers. The critical shortage of officers in the field of medical techniques is partially addressed today by contracted civilian doctors. Some of the officers with a medical discipline, i.e. medical support or medical techniques, are also necessary in the joint structure of Defence. They are therefore outside the Medical Component, so that the full need of the Medical Component itself cannot be met. Mr Top, a number of the officers you mentioned are therefore also employed in other components and rods. In mid-2017, the situation will be most distressing for the medical assistance officers in 1 EMI. 1 EMI may therefore be reorganised in 2017. However, there is no question of collective closure. The action initiated by the medical component commander has in no way to do with the proposal on the future installation of Defense, which is currently under discussion with the government. The reorganisation is currently under investigation in the Medical Component. The performance of the Medical Component will not be affected at any time, as medical support to the core tasks of Defense has absolute priority, regardless of the component or capacity supported. 1 EMI today provides territorial medical support for the units in the provinces of East and West Flanders and operational medical support mainly for the Navy. The possible reorganisation of 1 EMI in 2017 will not affect those two types of medical support. Some of the existing staff will therefore remain on the ground to continue to provide the aid, always. Regardless of the decision taken, there will have to be people on the ground to provide effective medical support. That seems obvious to me. The Medical Component prefers a solution whereby the vast majority of current staff of 1 EMI can remain on site in 2017. The Action Plan on the possible transfer of medical component personnel will be part of the Defence Global Action Plan. As pointed out, Mr De Vriendt, the strategic vision of the new vessels and our discussion earlier made it clear that the Belgian Defence will continue to use them on a maritime capacity, of course. I'll reconfirm that. That will be again in West Flanders. Support services such as medical support will also be located close to that capacity. The internal note of 28 October 2016 was a start to look at the possible reflections on the personnel problem, as indicated to me by the editors of that document. As soon as the different options are clear, the trade unions and the staff concerned can be communicated. However, no unnecessary restructuring or changes will be required. Mr De Vriendt, let me be very clear. There is a note, on which no action has yet been taken. Let me compare it with a situation where people who are in charge of the management of a business, a small business, make proposals to the higher echelons. It's not a case yet. Besides, things eventually pass through me. At that time, I can still do an opportunity analysis. It is somewhat annoying to see that kind of internal policy documents or policy proposals come out in this way. As part of the decision on geographical implantation to be taken by the government, I asked for the movement to be kept to a minimum. This seems to me to be a reasonable question from me as a minister. We must leave the people where they are to decide on the final situation. Finally, I would like to say, too personally, that I can respond positively to your last question. I am convinced, as I said earlier, that a good geographical distribution of the Belgian defence is important for the well-being of the military and recruitment. I have certainly taken this element into account in the preparation of my proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u57	Minister, I am pleased to hear you confirm that you are behind the geographical distribution of our various services and barracks across the territory. That is one of the points on which your vision will be based. You understand that there was concern when the note came out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u58	The question is whether internal note holders should be disseminated in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u59	If that note is distributed in an undisputed manner, without the necessary explanation, then there may indeed be concern. I would therefore like to call for the attention and serenity of those who are preparing such measures. This should also be taken into account. Sensitive information sometimes finds its way out and can cause concern to the staff. Finally, I would like to stress your continued commitment to recruitment in specific positions, where there are critical shortages. Efforts should be made to fill the empty spaces or shortages and recruit the necessary staff. We must not allow certain services to be smoked out, which ultimately means that a service must be closed down due to a shortage of staff. That's the question of the chicken and the egg. If enough soldiers are recruited and if sufficient efforts are made to ensure that staff are present, then there will be no shortages.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u60	Mr Top, first of all, you accept that such notes are being circulated, but I do not accept that. I do not think it is normal for proposals for decisions, i.e. not decisions, to be made public. That way, every study falls out. We must be able to consider a number of things, sometimes the worst. That's the way it is. I do not want to accept such a situation. I'm not amused. Secondly, as far as recruitment is concerned, I have told you that there is a catching-up movement going on. We're talking specifically about officers. They have a period of training. There is a gap, which should have been resolved a few years ago. That didn't happen. We can act now, but new officers, specifically in medical support, cannot be taken out of the tree. They're not medics. Medici can be called in, but they're specific officers in support. We are making a catch-up, but one cannot go faster than fast.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u61	Minister, I have already been reassured by your reply. You say that it is normal for proposals to be made. That is correct, but this was the commander of the Medical Component who had one proposal, in particular the closure of this medical unit. It is therefore not the case that the commander of the Medical Component listed a number of slopes with the prosthetics and the counters. This was the proposal to the general staff, which is nevertheless important. I would like to stress that something has also gone wrong with internal communication and the extent to which the note was available to third parties, because several soldiers were aware of the existence of the note. She was quite available for consultation with the Defense Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u62	I will not blame anyone, not even you, for using the elements they receive. So my problem isn't with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u63	I'm glad to hear that. Of course, it is only logical that soldiers should be worried when they see this note, but I am glad that the proposal for the closure of the medical unit in Lombardsijde is not being followed. You are going to a possible reorganisation in 2017. That's something other than a lockdown. We will, of course, continue to monitor this, but it is already partly reassuring. You also said that most of the staff will be able to stay there. It is reported that mutations are already being prepared from the unit in Lombardsijde. Perhaps that information is not correct, but you could have it investigated in such a way that we do not proceed too quickly there. Finally, the presence of Defence in West Flanders is important. It is a province that has already suffered under previous restructurings. We need to see that everything remains fair. Certainly the presence of the SAR, the Navy component, is a unique matter for the Defense Department. Everyone agrees on that. That is, by definition, related to West Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u64	We will not build a new naval port in Ghent or Liège; in that regard, I can reassure you. Search and rescue will always rise above the sea, I suspect, so that's not so bad. You're talking about the need to prepare mutations. I had a briefing yesterday, among other things, with regard to mutations over the past year. Let me explain. Despite the fact that we had said that it would be a luw year with regard to mutations, 3 000 mutations have taken place. Now mutations can also mean moving from one unit to another within fifteen minutes. You should not forget that automatic changes are inherent in personnel dynamics in Defence, for example because certain courses are taking place. This is part of the route. I'll get it checked out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u65	Question No 15278 by Mrs Renate Hufkens is postponed. I don't see Mrs. Jadin in the room. We'll wait for him.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u66	Mr President, Minister, on November 16, I was asking you about our country's scientific mission to Antarctica, in which Defence was supposed to participate. On this occasion, you told me that "the costs associated with this support are borne entirely by the Science Policy and this will be the case for the costs already generated by the campaign in 2016-17, whether it takes place or not." You invited me to question you a month later in order to know the exact amounts mentioned. Since I am a very attentive person to the promises made, I therefore allow myself to come back to you so that you can inform me as accurately as possible on this subject. What is the cost of this aborted mission for Defence and whose invoice will be paid by the Science Policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u67	Mr President, Mr Pirlot, as of 9 December 2016, the cost of the mission to which you refer amounts to €133,268 from the provision set aside by the Scientific Policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u68	Minister, thank you for this clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u69	Mr President, Minister, in 1971 divers accidentally discovered the gas grenades dump on the sandbank Horse Market. That sandbank is located in front of the beach of Knokke-Heist in the view of the Zeebrugse harbor pier. There is a very large amount of explosives piled up, partly on and partly below the sea floor. The grenades date from the First World War and are likely to be 35 000 tonnes of grenades, estimated to contain one in three gas munitions. After the discovery in 1972, relatively little was done with this knowledge. In 1988, the problem came back to the agenda and a preliminary study was made available with the ultimate aim of clearing that prohibited fishing and anchor area. Soon it appeared that removing the grenades would be a dangerous and time-consuming operation. A lot of grenades are hidden under a sludge layer. The operation would cost a lot of money and working days. The government at the time was shocked by these dangers and costs, with the result that ammunition is still untapped today. Over the past thirty years, Belgium has opted for a donot touch approach in this file. In the long term, however, a lasting solution will be needed. The risks remain and the sandbank is close to a very busy shipping route, near the port of Zeebrugge. I'm not arguing for a recovery of the ammo myself. The risks to the population and the environment are very high. However, there are several alternative slopes, for example the sandbank surrounded by dikes. A scientifically sound monitoring mechanism would have been set up by the Ministry of Defence, consisting of a 10-year location of the ammunition dump and an annual sampling. Divers-deminers of the DOVO go to secure certain places on the sea floor and bring up soil samples. In this way one tries to control leakages of poison gases. Minister, is DOVO still carrying out an annual audit? The latest state of play on parliamentary questions is on February 2015. When are the latest controls and sampling dating? What's the result of that? When was the latest location? Is the state of the war munitions stable? Finally, if monitoring is still closely monitored, are alternative long-term solutions still being sought, examined or discussed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u70	Mr President, Mr Top, monitoring the sandbank Horse Market is one of the powers of the Federal Public Health Service. It is therefore at the request of Health that the DOVO shows up to collect the samples. These samples are then collected, verified and analysed in our Defense Laboratories. The most recent sample has a long beard. After all, it dates from last week, namely from 6 December 2016. The analyses have just started and will take several months. The location of the controls as well as their frequency, the interpretation of the analysis report and the development of possible long-term solutions are the responsibility of Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u71	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the answer, which is sufficient for me for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u72	Mr.President, Mr.Minister, as you know, from December 3 to 11, 2016 there was an economic and princely mission to Texas. Among the many potential spin-offs generated by this visit, the press recently referred to the possibilities of new museum partnerships between Bastogne and the State of Texas, obviously in view of the attractiveness of Memoir's tourism in the eyes of the Americans, and more specifically the Texans, many of whom fought and died in our Ardennes. With this in mind, can you take stock of the potential impact of this mission on National Defence, with a particular focus on this partnership aspect at the Memoir level?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u73	Pirlot, on December 7, 2016, the delegation of the Texas Economic Mission visited a preview of an exhibition called Texas Aggies Go to War. This exhibition, which was organized by the Bastogne War Museum in 2014 in Bastogne in honour of the soldiers from Texas who participated in the Battle of the Bulge, is transferred to Texas A&M University on a permanent basis. These are things I took back in the newspapers, because this is an initiative of the Bastogne War Museum. However, it is not part of the military heritage managed by Defence. As this matter is not part of my mandate, I am sending you back to the Walloon government, the city of Bastogne and the state of Texas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u74	Minister, contrary to what was a little strangely announced by the press, nothing concrete has returned to the defence sector in relation to this visit. That was the meaning of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u75	Minister, the bill amending the Organization Act of the Intelligence and Security Services of November 30, 1998, currently under discussion in the Justice Committee, raises a number of questions. First, it is strongly criticized by Kingdom archivists in that it makes it possible to derogate from the Archives Act of 24 June 1955. This allows intelligence services to organize their own historical archives. In addition to allowing intelligence services to self-regulate, the text also allows them to destroy classified documents after a restitution request. Thus, as the Association des archivists francophones de Belgique rightly points out, this system violates the basic principles of democracy and the separation of powers, since it creates a system in which the intelligence and security services manage the archives from creation to destruction and thus become uncontrollable. Minister, let me ask you the following questions. Do you share the concerns of archivists that such a system is a real problem in the light of the democratic principles of our rule of law? If so, do you think that an amendment should be made to delete section 21/1 of the bill? Second, this bill also affects the jurisdiction of the SGRS. The strengthening of our intelligence services must be the future, and they must receive the appropriate structures and means for this purpose, but this must be done in a global reflection on the Belgian intelligence community. Minister, are you not afraid that this new project will create a grey zone between military and civilian intelligence? Will the SGRS be provided with the human and budgetary resources necessary for the new skills and opportunities given to it by this project? How could ISTAR, often accused of running alone without democratic control, be better integrated into this reflection?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u76	Thank you, Mr. Pirlot. For information, an excellent amendment already exists on this subject!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u77	Mr Pirlot, we will have a lot of time to discuss in committee. With regard to article 21/1, I do not share your concern. The intelligence services will not create an independent archival service. Paragraph 2 of the proposed Article 21/1 clearly states that "the preservation of the archives of the intelligence and security services is under the supervision of the Archivist General of the Kingdom (AGR) or his delegates." The control of the general archivist of the Kingdom is therefore maintained, even if there is no longer an obligation to transmit these records to him. In addition, the bill provides that the public will be able to consult the archives under the same conditions as in the State Archives. The bill provides for the return of documents to the intelligence services, thereby reducing the risk of having classified exhibits found in other archives. It is also intended that the intelligence and security services will be able to ask the addressees to destroy the documents under certain circumstances, rather than return them, always after authorization by the AGR. Proposed article 21/1 contains sufficient monitoring mechanisms to ensure respect for democratic principles without needing to be modified. With respect to the possible grey area, the SGRS performs its duties according to the means available to it and the priorities identified by the Minister of Defence. The government agreement provides for a study on the role, skills, organization and capabilities of the intelligence service. With regard to the question of the means required, the strategic vision provides for a move from the SMS to modern military intelligence, including the personnel and investments necessary to carry out its tasks. The new organization and structure, including the possible integration of units, will be part of another study on staff reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u78	Minister, thank you for your answers. These were not my personal concerns but those of Kingdom archivists. You gave me a nice response from Normand because you told me that "it didn't question anything but there was no longer a transmission obligation." But, de facto, no necessary control will take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u79	It'll be after the AGR's permission!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u80	You will allow me to be dubious with respect to this article 21/1. We can't agree on everything, minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u81	See you in the Justice Committee soon!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u82	We couldn't reach Mrs. Jadin. I therefore give the floor to Mr. From Vriendt.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u83	Mr Minister, last Saturday the press said that there were plans to privatise the equivalent of around 5 000 jobs in the defence sector, including catering and information technology, as well as monitoring and technical support. The military trade unions are concerned about this, especially in conjunction with the decision to raise the retirement age. Firstly, can you confirm the figures in the press? What deadlines are we talking about? Secondly, which tasks and sectors are eligible to be outsourced? Thirdly, a fundamental point. When I read this, I was wondering how this could be reconciled with the objective of keeping the retirement age for military soldiers at work for a longer period of time. The tasks that may be privatised are, after all, those that are eligible to be carried out by older soldiers. Fourthly, quid with the financial picture? Is there an estimate of the financial impact of outsourcing around 5 000 jobs? Are you sure this will save you? Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u84	I would point out that Question No 15474 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is irrelevant, since she is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u85	Mr President, Mr De Vriendt, I am somewhat surprised at the fact that I was convinced that you, as a member of this committee, had taken note of my strategic vision. So Saturday's big news was no news at all, but I congratulate Mr Pirlot on getting the front page. The government has decided that the Belgian Defence will still have 25 000 posts by 2030. Today there are about 32 000. Last week in this committee we dealt with the quota without citizens, which is already less. As described in the strategic vision presented to the Council of Ministers on 29 June, these personnel will be deployed primarily on military-specific operational deployment functions. Assistance from civil services for supporting tasks and services will therefore be needed. This approach to outsourcing is not new to the Defense Department but is already applied to a number of domains of Defense, such as maintenance, installation, cleaning, maintenance of green, commercial transport, development of ICT, computer equipment, first-line maintenance and maintenance of ships, aircraft and commercial vehicles. Defence intends to pursue this policy more structurally. For the sake of efficiency, it will evaluate for each "material and infrastructure" service, current or future, the desirability of establishing cooperation with a civil or public partner or using outsourcing. What does that mean? We are talking about non-military-specific tasks, as defined in the strategic vision. On a case-by-case basis, we need to look at how we can do it most efficiently and get the most value for money. That's the bottom line. In the strategic vision, a budget was gradually built up, in line with the decrease in staff numbers, to be in regime by 2030. So it's not about replacing 5 000 jobs. I am not saying that the private sector will take over 5 000 jobs. All I'm saying is that we're assuming that we're moving towards an army that's moving from 32 000 to 25 000 in the period up to 2030. However, we maintain the level of ambition we already had. In order to overcome that difference, we will, if necessary, call on external partners. We will look at the case on a case-by-case basis. I'm clearly talking about tasks, not people. That is a very important difference. What's it about? What did the paper seem to have made? It would be a shame if I made a plan without starting implementation and implementation. We don't go ice cream in one night. So, together with the staff, we have defined a number of specific pilot projects. We are going to contract them now, so that, hopefully by mid-2018, we will have learned enough lessons to say whether or not we will continue to do so. The syndicates were aware of this and were already informed of the initiatives and pilot projects to be launched next year. With regard to your concerns about the people who will stay longer with the Defense Department than was perhaps thought or foreseen earlier, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that they are not all self-evident. For the functions and outsourcing of the functions that we have in mind, it is not obvious that we would employ older soldiers. I have received serious comments in the social media on a question from the staff themselves to see how we can have the monitoring of quarters in outsourcing carried out. I see that people will not be taken over by people who will stay longer. I don't just see that happening. As Secretary of State for Defence, I consider the waiting function to be an essential part of the Defense Department. That's my belief. I see that the waiting function today weighs heavily for the operational battalions, given the statutes and principles at Defense regarding the deployment of the number of people, recovery and that much more. It is those people who are given up for the watch, who, through the recovery of evening shifts, weekend shifts and so on, are not at the disposal of the normal operation of the battalion, which weighs heavily. Specifically with regard to the monitoring aspect, this is a project that was studied 15 years ago. For all kinds of reasons, it was abandoned at that time. We're going from 32 to 25. We want to focus on 24 000 soldiers who can actually be deployed. So, on a case-by-case basis, let us look at how we do best, either ourselves or with a partner.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u86	Mr Minister, I am particularly interested in the plans to raise the retirement age for military personnel, and this is a point that is relevant here. You know we're against that. I believe that a soldier has a heavy occupation, which cannot be equated with a career or a profession in another sector. In addition, we believe that the first step in raising the retirement age was to make sure that certain positions in the army were not a serious occupation. This has been done quite wrong. The increase in retirement age is a new element in the whole debate on outsourcing. A number of tasks that are apparently outsourced are just more than others eligible to be carried out by older soldiers. I agree with you that the guarding of quarters is something that must be able to be exercised by the military. If you say that this is a major burden on the operational battalions, we must, of course, expand the operational battalions in the army. I believe that it is also your ambition to make the army more operational and to go beyond those core tasks. Then we must expand these battalions so that at least the guarding of the quarters is maintained by the military themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u87	I would like to add one more thing. I do not want to discuss pensions, because you did not put a question on them. That question slipped in. It is a fact that outsourcing offers opportunities for outplacement and that in the context of our transition to BDL, where people will leave Defense much faster, we will also have to look for outplacement routes in the long term. You can look at that from one side. I understand very well that we are majority and opposition, but I would like to spend a bit more driving to discuss the HR aspect. You can imagine that as separate, but that is not the case. The story's connected somehow. From 2019 onwards, the first BDL'ers will leave Defense. I want to stand against it with a system where, in addition to Secretary Jambon's security corps, we can also offer those people other opportunities to move on to a new post outside of Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u88	The question then is why you should still do that. If a number of tasks can be performed by older military personnel, why outsource them? Older soldiers will indeed be able to work more easily, but just keep them in the Defense Department; keep those tasks with the Defense Department. In the context of your mixed career, you will indeed lose older military personnel at Defense by passing on to other sectors, but when it comes to tasks at Defense that can be exercised by older military personnel, keep them with Defense.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u89	We will evaluate case by case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u90	The last word, of course, has not yet been said.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u91	Minister Fatou Bensouda, the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court (ICC), stated on 14 November that "have a reasonable basis to believe" that the US armed forces, the CIA, the Taliban and their allies, as well as the Afghan government forces have allegedly committed war crimes. This statement comes after a long preliminary examination of the atrocities committed in Afghanistan during the war in Afghanistan since 2003. In her pre-trial report, necessary for the initiation of an investigation, the prosecutor states that members of the United States armed forces allegedly inflicted "on at least 61 detainees acts of torture, cruel treatment and violation of the dignity of the person on Afghan territory". She adds that "at least 27 detainees" were allegedly subjected to the same treatment, carried out by CIA representatives in Afghanistan as well as in other countries party to the Rome Statute, such as Poland, Romania and Lithuania. The Taliban are said to have been responsible for the deaths of more than 17,000 civilians and for crimes against humanity and war crimes. The report refers to attacks on protected areas, including schools, offices of civil authorities, hospitals, holy sites and mosques. Minister, I have two questions. First, Defence has been present in Afghanistan since 2003 through its participation in various NATO missions. Not only have many Belgian military personnel been very close to the ground and the Afghan conflicts, but they are most familiar with them. Will the Defence, through the testimony of its members, do its utmost to assist the ICC in its long and difficult investigation of the consequences of this war? If so, in what form? Secondly, according to a report by the Open Society Justice Initiative, published on 4 February 2013, 54 countries (including Belgium) assisted the CIA in its programme of secret detention and interrogation of terrorist suspects following the attacks of 11 September. Belgium would thus have opened its airspace for secret flights. Between the end of 2001 and the end of 2005, CIA aircraft named N829MG and N1HC reportedly made four stops at Belgian airports. In 2006, a special Senate commission had concluded that it could not exclude either "that flights had taken place on Belgian territory". Is it not time for the Defence in general, the SGRS and the Air Component (in charge of the Air Traffic Control Center of Semmerzake) in particular, to provide the International Criminal Court with all the information in their possession to finally shed light on these painful cases for a new day? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u92	My colleague, I will give a unique answer to the two questions asked. Pursuant to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, ratified by Belgium, and the Law of 29 March 2004 on Cooperation with the International Criminal Court and International Criminal Tribunals, the Central Authority, i.e. the International Humanitarian Law Services of the FPS Justice, has sole jurisdiction to receive requests for mutual assistance from the Court, which are then transmitted to the Belgian authority competent for their execution. In the situations referred to, the actions taken are within the competence of the judicial authorities and it is not up to the Defence to interfere in the investigations carried out by the Court. It should be noted here that the Defence cooperates closely with international criminal courts through the Belgian task force for international criminal justice, where it is represented and transports detainees to The Hague by air.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u93	Minister, on other issues, we know that today, in Iraq, Syria, but also in Afghanistan, there is a stake in winning the image war. To be able to counter terrorist groups – Al-Qaeda in Afghanistan, ISIS in Iraq and Syria – we must win this war through transparency, that is to say, what has been done, what is being done. This is the best way to fight against conspiracy theory and jihadist propaganda that today stands at everything, especially since the emergence of social networks. I hear the Defence cooperates through the FPS Justice, etc. I encourage you, should the FPS Justice have been seized by the International Criminal Court, to ensure that all our members of the Defence can cooperate in the ongoing investigation if it takes place. I think the opening of Semmerzake's archives, so Defence Air Traffic Control, could help in particular to learn more about these CIA flight stories. It was one of the dark spots of the Senate inquiry in 2006. On the occasion of the opening of this ICC investigation, we could shed light on what really happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u94	Minister, the President-elect of the United States, Donald Trump, - we have to get used to it - said on Twitter this Monday, December 12th that the costs of the F-35 bomber's program were "out of control". He added that "billions of dollars can - and will - be saved on military and other purchases after 20 January". January 20, being the date of his oath. On this occasion, the press recalled that the F-35 program is the most expensive of the weapons programs in American military history, with a total cost estimated at nearly $400 billion, for barely 2,500 aircraft to be produced by the builder Lockheed Martin, of which we were talking earlier. However, as we all know, this aircraft is running for replacement of the Belgian F-16s. Hence, minister, my questions. Is this invigorating release of the future commander-in-chief of the US Armed Forces not likely to make you suspicious of one of the five candidates currently expected to buy 34 Belgian fighter-bombers? Donald Trump, considering that the F-35 program is out of control, will your future specifications, currently in writing, for this public procurement, mention clear and firm beacons to avoid any bad surprises at the time of the procurement, but also after, for the maintenance of these devices? What are the beacons envisaged? In these circumstances, is the F-35 still one of the credible candidates to replace the F-16s?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u95	Mr. Hellings, thank you for your questions. To your first question, the answer is no. For your question 2, after the request for government proposal is sent, Defence will receive proposals from government agencies. It seems premature to draw conclusions even before sending the request for government proposal, receiving and evaluating the proposals. The evaluation of the proposals will highlight the costs of possession over a period of forty years – this has already been explained to this commission – including operating and maintenance costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u96	We look forward to this specification, Minister. I hope he gets to our benches soon. In any case, we are prepared to analyse it in detail, what needs to be done in the circumstances. The choice that will take place after the analysis of the specifications will have to take into account not only the purchase – as you said –, the maintenance and the hidden costs, of which we press for the F-35 that they will – according to the president elected – be out of control. We will have to be extremely careful, since there is a precedent, namely the F-35 market for the United States itself. In the interests of good governance, we should be wary of warning signals from people whose values or political agenda I do not share at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u97	Does that mean, Mr. Hellings, that you have to be more wary of the F-35 than the others? You know I like the talk and what they're trying to get me to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u98	Not at all! I didn't lend you anything!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u99	I know that. For the sake of understanding, should I be more wary of the F-35 than of the others?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic550x.u100	Technically and politically, yes. There are many failures in the F-35 program. But if you want to follow the Greens' point of view on this issue, don't buy it at all. This will make you make a huge economy, which will allow you to make real strategic choices in other sectors.
