ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u1	Minister, as I have said in part, if I see items 2, 3 and 4 on the agenda, your cabinet has attached 9 questions once, 17 questions once and 11 questions once. I think we have a fairly dynamic management of the question-and-answer sessions and this is going pretty well in this committee. But when I have 17 people to meet at one time, it's not possible. I'm sorry, but it's not possible. As in addition, when you read the titles, questions have nothing to do with each other, it becomes very complicated. Some parliamentarians have called me to denounce the fact. It is not the secretariat that joins the questions, but the firm. Usually, we never had a problem, but that's not the case here. Do you have an explanation that justifies you attaching 17 questions to point 3?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u2	Madam President, the various issues were discussed by the services of SNCB, Infrabel and my secretariat. I would like to return to the 560 Belgian stations on the basis of questions. But then I read the same answer given to me by SNCB and Infrabel. It does not bother me, in the future, to deal with the issues individually even if they relate to the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u3	Minister, usually the questions that are attached make sense. When we have a debate on the overflight of Brussels, it makes sense to treat the Walloon Brabant, the Flemish Brabant and Brussels as well. There has always been this logic in this committee. Everything was going well. But here, you understand that it is difficult to bring together 17 people on an agenda item so that all questions can be asked. There is management of Infrabel, SNCB, but there is also the role of the parliamentary oversight of the government through its questions. As for the timeliness of the questions, when I hear all the questions/answers, I ask myself as many questions as you do. But it is the freedom of every parliamentarian to table the questions he hears. Are they all timely? It's not up to me to position myself on the opportunity or not the questions. In this case, I do not know how to deal with items 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda. When I see the 17 questions in point 3, I have the impression that everyone is quoting at one point the multi-year investment plan. As the exchange of views in this committee, particularly on the transport plan, dozens of questions are being rejected. Either the majority accepts exchanges of views on different themes, which would avoid dozens of questions; or the issues will have to be dealt with one by one, or three by three, but not 17 at a time. Perhaps I would like the committee to speak. But if I have 17 people on point 3, we're not going to get to point 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u4	Madam President, I had exactly the same thought when I saw the agenda. When I hear the minister's answer to this problem, I have the impression that he tells us: as long as he does not answer one question at a time, so much as not answer all the questions at once. That's what he means. If a question on line 96 is combined with a question on line 181, it means that the same answer, or the same non-response, is given to both questions. I have a problem with that. It's a little, I think, a denial of...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u5	I am not saying that this is a denial, because the minister comes to answer much more often than other ministers. In some commissions, it takes six months to get answers. This is not the case. This is the first time that we have had a problem dealing with joint issues. I don't want to create a polemic where there's none, Mr. Van Hees. I keep the church in the middle of the village. I think the minister has only one answer for the 17 stakeholders, the 9 stakeholders and the 11 stakeholders. There you go, know him.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u6	Can't we ask the minister...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u7	He will not be able to answer anything other than what was written to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u8	Minister, I assume that today it will be difficult to do otherwise, given that your answers are prepared according to this cluster of questions. But can we not ask you, in the future, to avoid such exaggerated groupings?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u9	That is what has been done so far, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u10	Madam Chair, I am available to answer questions until 10:00 p.m. But I will not be able to answer because the answers have been consolidated. There are still a number of things that relate to the investment plan and strategy. But with regard to the specific questions on certain stations, I am not able to answer today because the work is not finished. I would like to give an answer and have the questions put back on the agenda of the next committee. I don't have a problem with that. I am at the disposal of the committee. In the last committee, one third of the questions were not asked because of the absence of the members! I'd like to say it on behalf of the government. You must know that all the questions put in the Committee on Infrastructure represent 7 full-time equivalents! Ask me questions, but out of respect for both parliamentary and ministerial work, I ask that the members who ask questions be present. It goes in both directions and it is a colossal work. We have had 1,870 questions since the beginning of the legislature!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u11	You're right. Minister, I think we could organize our work differently. I propose a consultation with the bureau of this committee and your cabinet. With regard to the problem of punctuality, for example, the investment plan, we could have a real exchange of views, it would be more interesting and more fruitful than asking individual questions, even if it is necessary to know that every parliamentarian has the right to table questions concerning his region. I propose to organise a meeting at the beginning of the year with the bureau and the secretariat of this committee to organise things.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u12	Madam President, I think the number of questions is proportional to the level of the problems that people face.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u13	Mr President, I very much welcome your proposal that the Bureau of the Committee should look at this together with the cabinet. Then a proposal can be proposed for a further arrangement of the work for our committee. However, I would like to ask that we start now with the questions that have been tabled. For some reason, they have been merged by the Cabinet, something I have reservations about myself. Can we just start with those present and deliver the answer in writing to the absentees? I don't know if that's a possibility? In this way, we can avoid, for example, having to wait for the others here for three of the 17 questioners, which are probably not going to succeed in getting them together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u14	We'll start the questions. However, I am trying to satisfy as many Members as possible, whether they are from the majority or the opposition. You know that we have a dynamic management of issues. But it's a little complicated today. As almost no one is present on agenda item 2, do we move on to another item? Do you want to wait or not? [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u15	I propose to put the first four items on the agenda. We'll see if people get here. Mr. Raskin? [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u16	Well, I'll be dissatisfied. We shall begin agenda item 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u17	Madam President, in the past I have always been prepared to wait for or not to wait for fellow Members after consultation, and very pragmatically. Everyone here, however, is busy these days. I myself am now being replaced in another committee and I would very much like to ask my questions. Excuse me for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u18	Ms Jadin is not present and therefore her question No 14921, which has not been transformed into a written question, is deleted. That's how it is. Mr Crusnière will join us later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u19	Madam President, Minister, I have noted that many questions have been put together. You have given your explanation for that. I do not want to go back on the substance, but I hope to get a concrete answer to my specific question. On 28 October, the Board of Directors of SNCB approved the main lines of the new transport plan which will enter into force shortly. This transport plan refers to the reopening of three stops in the province of Liège, namely Seraing and Ougrée, on the freight line 125a, and Chaudfontaine on the railway line 37. Firstly, can you confirm that the new stops I have just mentioned will be realised effectively? Secondly, how many train passengers are expected on an average weekday in Seraing? How many of these travellers are new, and are they not using another station at the moment? The same question applies to the other two stops, Ougrée and Chaudfontaine. Thirdly, what are the investment costs to operate these three stops? Fourthly, the stops in Seraing and Ougrée are, as I said, on a freight line. Is there any need for additional capacity to operate that line with passenger trains? What additional train offer is provided to operate the new stops in Seraing and Ougrée? What is the cost of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u20	My question is about Tubize station, in Walloon Brabant. Very beautiful commune, good majority. In this beautiful town, there are some worries about the train station. You know that, because the municipal authorities have contacted SNCB and Infrabel, so far to challenge the transport plan, the question of speed, the condition of the station, the parking lot, the lack of trains, the commercial speed. Since the introduction of the 2014 transport plan, two trains have been abolished in rush hour. There are only four remaining, which is insufficient. By comparison, the Halle train station receives ten trains per hour in rush hour. However, it receives only 50% more passengers than the Tubize train station, for a 2.5-fold higher offer. In addition, many residents of the Tubize living area (about 50,000 people) are required to travel to Halle station because of the inadequate offer at Tubize station. According to a survey of commuters.be, which analyses the punctuality of trains at peak times, line 96 is one of the worst lines from the point of view of punctuality, with that which connects Binche to Brussels. From November 2015 to October 2016, only 48% of trains on this line were on time, less than one in two trains. Every day, nearly 3,500 travellers pass through the Tubize wharves and face this unacceptable situation. In addition, this region of Walloon Brabant is known for its serious mobility problems. As a result of the establishment of new, very important neighbourhoods and the resulting mobility, the needs are enormous. Minister, as part of the 2017 transportation plan, will SNCB improve the fate of commuters at this station? Under the Multiannual Investment Plan (MIP), what investments are planned to improve service in this area? Will measures be taken to reduce delays on line 96?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u21	Mr Minister, you have recently said in the press and, since yesterday we know how important it is to read in the press, that you must have the audacity to relay live the big cities like Brussels in Liège or Luxembourg without the train stopping at other stations. In addition, you clarified the idea that a rail link between Brussels, Luxembourg, Strasbourg and Zurich had also been announced. Minister, can you give us more information about these projects? What is the status of discussions with foreign railways? You know how much we care about our international connections, whether they exist or can see them again. When will these connections between the major Belgian and European cities come into being?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u22	Madam President, Minister, I have come back to this question a few times, but as a result of the new transport plan, you will not blame me for doing so again. My question is about the station in Gentbrugge, a relatively small station that still has a lot of commuters from the area. The station is also part of the station in Ghent. In the previous transport plan, the train supply for that station was halved. During the presentation of the draft transport plan 12/017, a number of studies were presented showing very clearly that it would be good to add one P-train per hour. Also on weekends a train would be added every two hours. A better operation of Gentbrugge and Beervelde would also be done by allowing the S-train from Antwerp to Lokeren to continue. We suspect, from what we hear, that these trains will not be added. Mr. Secretary, can you indicate that decision? Will the service for the stop site Ghentbrugge improve or will we certainly not hope to deteriorate? Since the studies quoted clearly show that there is a great deal of potential in them, I wonder what the motivation is if the transport offer is not increased there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u23	Mr President, I do not think my question should be included in the list. I understand that the questions on the new transport plan have been combined, but my question concerns cooperation between the various public transport companies, but not necessarily within the framework of the new transport plan. It is now clear that there is good contact and that it is aligned. We discussed it yesterday when we discussed the policy paper. My question is more specifically about cooperation between public transport companies on the ground in real time. People are still faced today with buses driving away when the train is yet to arrive. Mr Minister, I think it might be an opportunity for us to have a link with the transport plan in order to take account, within the framework of the new transport plan and the contacts that exist with the various regional public transport companies, not only of coordination but also of good real-time arrangements on the ground between bus drivers and trains. Is there already a real-time consultation between SNCB and De Lijn to ensure the connection of bus to train? How's that going? What appointments are there? Are there general rules or should this be done on an ad hoc basis? Are pragmatic solutions possible? Are there contact numbers known, for example, with which a train guide can notify the bus of a late arrival? I think there is still a lot of profit to be made to make public transport more secure and more attractive. Is it possible to better guarantee this connection in the future? How can that happen? What measures do you plan to ensure better connection of bus to train?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u24	Colleagues, the number of questions I have today about the new transport plan reflects the difficulty...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u25	Mr. Crusnière just arrived. I give him the floor for his questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u26	Madam President, first of all I would like to react, but I know that you did, since I called you earlier: I think it is a lack of courtesy on the part of the cabinet. I hope we have specific answers, minister. I would like to ask you about the impact of the new transport plan, more specifically for the Tubize station. For several months, commuters have complained of daily delays and overloaded trains, offering too few seats on this line. A year ago, a letter containing all the requests of a committee of commuters was sent to you, not only to your predecessor, but also, ultimately, to you. Since this letter, unfortunately, the situation remains unchanged and it seems that the new transport plan will not make any difference. Minister, a number of problems have been identified by commuters taking their trains at the Tubize railway station: problems with train speed, daily delays, too small trains, lack of seating for all commuters. What answers do you intend to give to these various problems and will the new transport plan finally address these problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u27	Colleagues, as I was telling you, the number of questions that are being asked to me today about the transport plan reflects the difficulty of developing one that takes into account all the expectations of all our fellow citizens. However, in the course of this development, SNCB attempted to meet as many demands as possible while ensuring an economic balance between the cost of new offers and the potential for additional travellers to be attracted to them. For its new transport plan of December 2017, SNCB, more than in the previous transport plan, listened to local authorities, following road shows organised at my request, at a time when all applications could still be the subject of an opportunity study. SNCB also held meetings with its stakeholders such as the Advisory Committee of Train Passengers, the regional public transport companies and the regional administrations. She also took part in the ECCM meeting and in the IKW meetings that I organised to include regional governments in the exercise. As a result, 129 cases were investigated and selected by SNCB on the basis of six criteria, such as consistency with the long-term vision of connecting nodes, coordination with other modes of public transport, travel requirements, potential demands and, lastly, operational criteria for the availability of personnel, rolling stock and budget. As of October 28, 2016, the Board of Directors of SNCB has therefore, under its responsibility, validated 63 of these files for completion as part of the 2017 Transport Plan. I stress here that this plan is not a rationalization plan, but rather a plan to redeploy the supply with an increase in the order of almost 5% of trains-km compared to the Transport Plan of December 2015, i.e. more than 3,720,000 kilometres on an annual basis, of which 70% are suburban mainly in Brussels, but also in the other major agglomerations (Anvers, Ghent, Liège, Charleroi). This increase in train-km is only made possible by the freezing of the infrastructure charge that I have decided and the risk that SNCB takes on the customer response to this new offer. I should like to add that, since this weekend, a first 0.8% increase in supply, that is 600,000 train-km per year, has been introduced. This mainly concerns the suburban offer in Brussels with 562 000 trains-km and Antwerp with 38 000 trains-km. When I say Brussels, of course, I am referring to Brussels, Walloon Brabant and Flemish Brabant. I'll come back to the new transport plan. After negotiating the necessary capacity on the rail network in order to realise its projects, SNCB, together with Infrabel, is now finalising the timetable to submit it to its next board of directors scheduled for 23 December. In concrete terms, the new transport plan of December 2017 will not differ in general from the current plan. This is mainly about optimising the December 2014 transport plan with, as I mentioned earlier, an increase in the number of train kilometres in certain places. The more specific questions – the offer in the German-speaking Community mentioned by Mrs Jadin, the service to Gent, Brugge, Eeklo, Beernem or Tubize, the stations of Seraing, Ougrée, etc., the reopening of stopping points – are numerous and legitimate. However, I do not wish to move forward today in response, as the SNCB Board of Directors has yet to reach a final decision and the Council of Ministers will subsequently have to agree on these proposals. SNCB planned to then return to the different provinces in the spring of 2017, via roadshows, to communicate on the evolution of specific offers. In particular with regard to cooperation with regional public transport companies, the latter and SNCB shall ensure that their respective offers are best harmonised and that properly planned connections between the two modes of transport are ensured. In this context, SNCB has already met six times with regional companies: Société régionale Wallonne du Transport (SRWT), TEC, De Lijn and STIB, as part of the development of its future transport plan and is planning three meetings in the first half of 2017 to finalize the collaboration on the implementation of the connections. This is also why we proposed that a representative from the SNCB or the federal or the Mobility FPS be involved in the development of transportation plans for regional transportation companies. As regards international links, for example Brussels-Luxembourg-Strasbourg and Zurich and other international lines, it is a liberalised transport which is subject to the constraints of balance of accounts and results. As far as Brussels-Zurich is concerned, on my initiative, we had a meeting with the French and Luxembourg Ministers, on 1 December, on the sidelines of the Council, and with the Swiss Minister Leuthard, on 24 November, to reactivate the study on European axis 3, which was on the same plan as Brussels-Paris and Brussels-London and Amsterdam. As regards the more specific questions concerning the Tubize station and the service at Tubize station, on the sidelines of the answer that has been prepared for me, I would like to say that, of course, it is not the companies that have prepared this answer that I am going to give you. Following the deterioration of the quality of service on a number of lines, particularly on line 96, lines 161-162, I wrote a letter to all directors designated by the Federal Shareholder State because it is their responsibility as administrator to ensure the control of their companies and the necessary measures to improve the timeliness and quality of service on these lines. I invited them to meet regularly and to designate a line schedule manager for quality of service and respect for travellers. I have not yet received an answer, apart from an acknowledgement of receipt, but I expect concrete measures from the two companies which tell me that, of course, there are external elements which have increased by about 50% compared to the previous year. But for internal causes, I ask them to work together to find solutions to improve this. Between January 1, 2015 and October 31, 2015 and the same period of 2016, external incidents increased from 31% to 47%. Yesterday, it was a bit of a mess on our network, linked to acts of vandalism that were committed on line 161, which disrupted the network to the south but also to the west of Brussels. This morning, there were some external elements again. You know them. These are people on the tracks, other facts related to people, theft of copper cables, acts of vandalism, trespassing or people walking along the tracks. This has become a worrying problem for which SNCB and Infrabel have decided to launch information campaigns. However, there are also internal causes specific to SNCB and specific to Infrabel, and it is up to these companies and their managers, especially for the lines outlined as they are – I identified them earlier – to find ways to improve this. If these are work-related causes, it is up to them to communicate to me a precise schedule of start-up and end-of-work and coordination measures that would be ensured between the two companies in order to try to reduce, little or no, the disadvantages suffered on these lines. That being said, for the most specific points, if you wish, you can question me in the context of a forthcoming committee meeting, for the more local elements. I would also like to say that we have indeed received letters for Tubize, for Quévy-Mons, for line 161 and for other lines. The request made to both companies is to understand why there has been a degradation of punctuality in the space of three, four months and what measures they intend to implement to meet the legitimate expectations of commuters, namely trains arriving on time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u28	Thank you, Minister. We must respect speaking time because we have a hundred questions. That is true for Members of Parliament, but it is also true for the minister, otherwise we will not get away with it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u29	Minister, thank you for these answers and specifically for the answer to the question of Tubize. What worries me is the mention of a degradation of punctuality for four months. But it's not new! The problem is previous. You asked to re-invent, to see if the problem required work, you asked for a new schedule. As we discuss an investment plan and a transport plan, if all this has not been taken into account, I wonder when we will be able to make progress. Of course, it is right to empower the directors of both entities. But I would remind you that you have the first responsibility. I really invite you to take the case with the body to move things forward, because the commuters, in any case on the lines you mentioned, are really tired of it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u30	Mr Minister, you have explained in detail how the draft transport plan has been drawn up, based on information from stakeholders, road shows, sitting together with the Regions. This is all a good thing, but the information I have received shows that my Region was surprised by the sudden communication of the draft transport plan. In that sense, it's a good thing that we're sitting together, but it can always be better. As far as my specific question is concerned, I understand that I also have respect for the fact that official ratification will follow and that we will be able to ask you again about the concrete lines and projects at a later stage. I will, but I would like to point out to you that some reasonableness may be expected. I have asked you about a number of additional stops in the province of Liège, which is equipped with a beautiful station. I'd love to go there. It's not that far from me. Nor far from me, in Hasselt, however, is there a dump. We need to be a little balanced and I hope that the ratification of the transport plan will lead to a result that is fair and takes account of the sighs throughout the country. I will certainly come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u31	I thank the minister for his response. I will re-examine him, since he invites me to do so. But the minister recalled what we already knew. Those who regularly attend this commission know how the transportation plan is designed. We have even received, designed by communication specialists, via PowerPoint, all the stages of the development of the transport plan and we therefore do not ignore the role of the boards of directors. We also know that there are representatives of sometimes partisan tendencies. We are also aware of the fact that at some point, in the end, the board of directors will adopt on December 23, on Christmas Eve. Nor do we ignore the role that the government will play. We also know that there will be roadshows in spring 2017. You understand that, despite the letter you sent on the more precise question of punctuality which has deteriorated sharply, especially in October – it is still a difficult month for the SNCB – and the acknowledgement of receipt – for which it took 15 days to send what does not campaign in the sense of waiting for a lot of speed in punctuality if I can afford this bad oxymore – I will only be able to re-examine and share the answer that I have received. It is highly imprecise on the issue of the Tubize railway station, which is in such a precarious situation that it has moved the communal council and all the living forces of the region. But, like the other one said, I'll come back.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u32	Mr Minister, you announced today in committee that, on your own initiative, you had made the necessary contacts with your colleagues to work on connecting Brussels to Zurich. I'll take note of that. I will come back to this shortly, at the same time as the evolution of the Thalys Wallon which is also a very important line for us as it connects the Walloon cities to Paris. Paris and Zurich are equally important for Wallonia. Since you did not reply yesterday, I will also rely on the profit or deficit balance of the Benelux line. You think Thalys Walloon is too expensive. We will see what will cost the State to travel from Luxembourg to Brussels, Antwerp to the Netherlands. Then we can make the accounts. As you said yesterday, the figures are important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As a colleague said, the beginning of your reply was already known to us. Most of us also attended road shows in the area where they live. The problem is that there is nowhere to go with comments and questions. Although there is consultation with the regions and with large cities, the same is actually said of what you are replying to here, namely the broad lines of the transport plan in the future. There is never an exact answer to the very specific questions. So you are really the only one, and this committee is the only place where we can ask these specific questions. Of course, after March or April, when the final plan will be in place and when the road show will be given, I will come back with my questions. After all, I am convinced that some things will have been posted, but then it is too late, because a decision has already been taken. It is quite possible and I understand very well that it is not obvious to answer the punctual questions. However, even the small stations are part of a larger whole of public transport. Those small stations are also very important. I would like to emphasise that. I hope you will take that into account in the final decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u34	Minister, I do not think I have really received an answer to my questions. I was not concerned with the coordination between SNCB and the regional transport companies in terms of transport plan. My question was more specifically about good coordination on the ground. In the event of delays, there should be better contacts between the different transport companies. I will therefore submit my question again in writing. Maybe I'll get a specific correct answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u35	We see that this exercise does not work, as all questions will be rested. Let's try to work. As Chair, I will now enforce the Rules of Procedure. With a hundred questions, we have until midnight. So it'll be two minutes by question. Minister, you will also reply as quickly as possible. Otherwise, we won't make it. On the other hand, Minister, I will come back with proposals for exchanges of views on major topics. Each time, the majority rejects these exchanges of views. I believe that without an exchange of views, hundreds of questions will not be answered. If we can have, as we have asked, exchanges of views on the IPP, on the transport plan, on punctuality, this would allow us to work much more usefully and that it is not small hands, but the bosses here who answer our questions. I think it's important. In the meantime, we will continue. We'll have this working meeting. But I think that on the questions that have already been asked, all the speakers intend to rest their question. You understand that then I will stop chairing these question-and-answer sessions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u36	Madam President, Minister, as you know, I am very attentive to the condition of the Ottignies station, whose capacity for reception, surface access, wharves, and track crossings are seriously inadequate for passenger traffic, which is constantly growing. This station, which is of major importance for Wallonia, is an important railway and intermodal node and must be treated as such. In 2015, all the political forces of Ottinto had expressed themselves with one voice in demanding these modifications, within the framework of the masterplan developed for a very long time, in partnership with SNCB and Infrabel, on the plateau of the station. Their commitment was reaffirmed by a new motion passed by the Communal Council of Ottignies, recalling that part of the funds had to come from the former PPI, i.e. 63.6 million euros out of the 89 million needed for the realization of this project. But Mrs. Galant sat down with this PPI a few months ago! Today, the new IPP is being finalized. In this context, it is up to us that the amounts planned for the Ottignies station would be drastically reduced. Although the shorter duration of the new IPP is probably partly responsible for this development, it would be at least a bad signal. This station must be thoroughly and urgently reviewed. As the second Walloon station, it must be the priority in terms of investment. On the other hand, a short-term policy, over three years, does not allow for the proper management of construction sites of this importance, let alone the proper orientation of major and capital investments for the future of Belgian mobility. Minister, what are the amounts finally provided for the Ottignies station, and for what work? If these budgets are drastically revised downwards with a view to a phase of work, as we fear, can you provide us with guarantees that the complete project will be carried out, as studied in depth by the city, the SNCB and Infrabel within the framework of the masterplan? I ask you here for a firm commitment! Do you think it is reasonable to consider such projects as part of a three-year investment plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u37	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the state of Wavre station and the promises that were made in the town of Wavre a few months ago. Ms. Galant had even come to the field to see the difficulty. A motion was voted unanimously at the October Communal Council in order to reiterate a new request to SNCB for the necessary work to be carried out on the outskirts of the Wavre railway station. Minister, several requests to refurbish the outskirts of the Wavre station have already been made to the SNCB - the first are from February 2015 -; can you tell me whether the redevelopment of the Wavre station is on the agenda and what budget will be allocated to it? If work is planned, can you give me an indicative date for the start of this work?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u38	Madam President, I know that the agenda for questions is busy, but it is also important that the minister can come to committee on a regular basis. I know he respects Parliament, but if we had this question-session at least every fortnight, it would be better. Minister, we recently learned from the press that the average age of SNCB rolling stock is 21 years compared to 16 years in neighbouring countries. As a result, 17.4 per cent of the equipment is permanently immobilized at the workshop for maintenance, repair or modernization. An action plan was identified to reduce equipment's capitalization rate to 12.7% by 2020. What is the status of the investment plan presented in this commission by the former Minister, Ms. Galant? In the Prime Minister's draft investment plan, the federal government intends to deploy a few tens of billion euros until 2030, through public-private partnerships. One of the components of this investment plan is mobility with the development of the RER, the rehabilitation of Brussels tunnels and the development of port areas (Antwerp, among others). A committee of experts will be appointed in consultation with the various regional executive bodies in order to select the projects. Can you give us more details on the investments and planned mobility amounts in this federal investment plan? What is the status of the procedure for appointing the Committee of Experts? Can you give us more information about this? How long will we be aware of the selected projects? Minister, we learned from CSC Transcom and the Shuttle Travellers Association that Infrabel was considering closing and deselecting lines to save money. You call this the redeployment plan. Both organisations strongly denounce these proposals by highlighting the increase in traffic congestion. You yourself highlighted the regional investments in this area yesterday on the road network, particularly in the vicinity of the major cities - you have just mentioned - and the mobility needs that are becoming increasingly important. You're right. Minister, what are Infrabel's ways of achieving savings? Are the closure and deselectrification of the lines well considered by Infrabel? Isn't it contradictory to the 2017 transport plan, which aims to expand the mobility offer? I could go further on this subject, but I have the respect of colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u39	Mr Devin, you're right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u40	Mr Bellot, you will learn that during this Parliament, I am always right. I'm glad to hear another tone today. It will save us time and energy. We have learned from the press that a bold 30-year-old strategy must be put in place to attract as many commuters as possible to the rail. However, the railway company is still waiting for its management contract and investment plan, as is the system manager, Infrabel. As you know, these elements are essential to putting the long-term strategy in place for both companies. Minister, can you give us more information on the development of management contracts and investment plans for SNCB and Infrabel? How long do you think they will be ready and put in place? What is the status of the discussions on this subject? Madam President, I wanted to stay on track.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u41	Minister, I have three questions. My first question is, of course, a general question which will probably also be put by other fellow Members. More than 750 000 train passengers, 36 000 railmen and women, at least 17 members of this committee and probably many other Members of Parliament have been waiting for a new management agreement and a multi-annual investment plan for SNCB and Infrabel for two years now. The number of days that this government is already working there requires white smoke. I'd like an update. When will a new management agreement and a multi-annual investment plan be brought to Parliament effectively? Madam President, if you will allow me, I will also ask my other questions. Mr Minister, this is a specific question concerning the electrification of the Mol-Hamont line. In the past, Mr Cd&V's colleagues have tabled and adopted a resolution with this in order to implement the first part of that electrification. However, I fear that the second part of this, from Mol to Hamont, was unfortunately not approved by mistake. A week later, I read in the press that the group leader of CD&V called himself "Mr. electrification Mol-Neerpelt" and actually said that there were clear economic gains for SNCB. It asked for an investment of 35 million euros from Infrabel but there would be 11 million euros per year for SNCB. The investment is therefore actually paid back after three to four years. On the one hand, it is called a smart investment, on the other hand, it is also important for travellers in the region, also for employment in, for example, Dutch Limburg and the like. Agreements have been reached. Are you aware of that? Are you involved in the consultations that have been held, for example, between the different provinces? This actually brings me to my third question. I have read that everything is blocked but I hope you are willing to negotiate with Infrabel to revise such things. Finally, my final question concerning the investment stop at Infrabel itself. We discussed this yesterday. I have said that the various political parties in this majority must assume their responsibilities. On the federal level, the Flemish parties constantly insist on the additional savings while in Flanders they say that they want to realize this and that. In this House, however, they do approve of these savings... This seems to me to be a somewhat uncoherent attitude. We are in favour of the savings being made. We and a number of other Members have seen tweets on the subject. However, I would like to make it clear once again that it is very unwise to save money in this area. Economic gains and health gains can be achieved. Mr Minister, I shall now turn to my questions. You stated yesterday that you received all the documents from Infrabel. My questions are very clear, also in order to avoid such rounds of questions as they are today. That is why my question was tabled. Would it not be better for us to have a fair discussion on the basis of documents? After all, the current course does not matter much, not for you and not for us. We can go in circles, but the situation only leads to more frustration. Perhaps we can then have a proper discussion on the basis of documents, in which we absolutely cannot agree with each other. We probably won't be able to agree either. Nevertheless, we, as adults, can have a discussion in this way. My question is as follows. Would you please come to Parliament? We will not agree, but in that case we will discuss on the basis of documents which you can put forward here in your capacity as Minister, which means that we are suddenly off the mark of yesterday and today, which we are laughing at, namely that we should read the press, in order to be able to ask questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u42	Madam President, what I was concerned about was the reopening of the Valenciennes-Mons line. It's a matter that I've been interested in since I've been a Member of Parliament since 2007, and I've asked all your predecessors about it. I believe that you are the sixth minister I am asking about this and before you, five ministers were in favour of reopening the line. I hope you will follow the line drawn by your predecessors. I'm still worried. Firstly, I must recall the importance for the Valencian and Mons-Borinage regions of the reopening of this line for freight, which can be a very interesting investment for economic recovery, for the maintenance of economic activities and economic exchanges between France and Belgium, a plan to reopen an international line also supported by the port of Antwerp. I saw yesterday representatives of the port of Antwerp confirming this to me. So we are not at all in a Community logic on this issue. Yesterday, I attended a meeting organized by the sub-prefect of Valenciennes where all the actors in this dossier were gathered: the railways of France were there, representatives of the French region of the North as well, representatives of Infrabel and representatives of your cabinet. It has been learned that the reopening of this line requires an investment on the French side of around EUR 15 million and on the Belgian side of EUR 3 million. It would seem, according to the interlocutors who represented you in France yesterday, that 3 million euros, in the current context, is a very large sum. I am very surprised that when the French are ready to invest 15 million and we are asked to invest 3 million to reopen an international line, it seems that we have a financial problem for 3 million euros. When we know the amounts of the budgets used, you know better than I do what we're talking about, $3 million, actually, it's ridiculous, in my opinion. At the time when I had talked to your predecessor, Minister Galant, she had told me that he cared about this matter, that Charles Michel had spoken about it with François Hollande and that they both agreed – you see how far it goes for 3 million euros. So I'd like to know what's going on. Your predecessor told us that there were 500 million investments planned in Wallonia, that the Walloon Region had been asked to set priorities for using these 500 million. We are now told that the 500 million would have evaporated. This is still a bit of a pity, when we are talking about infrastructure that will enable our region to be economically revived and to support its development. I would like to know your position on this matter. [[Are you officially and clearly in favour of reopening this line?]] Will you, like the French authorities, find these 3 million euros to make this investment concretely? The French can be ready in 2019 for the line to be operational again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u43	Madam President, Minister, I will be brief. My question is actually about the management contracts of SNCB and Infrabel, and the consequences they have on the other files. We talked about this yesterday and I read it in the press before. The delay seems to be with Infrabel, who comes very late with his proposals. You mentioned this here yesterday. Is this information correct? Is Infrabel effectively left behind with his proposals? To what do we owe this? What's the problem? Can you explain this? Mr Minister, I think we should be careful because I refuse to go along with the logic of an independent public undertaking as a Member of Parliament. The government is ultimately the largest shareholder and we have a responsibility in that. You are a custody minister and I would have liked to have heard from you what initiatives you have already taken to avoid further delay. Can you document these interventions? Finally, what time do you consider it possible to submit management contracts to this Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u44	Madam President, Minister, I have asked you and Mrs Galant on several occasions about the finalisation of the work of the ER, and more specifically on lines 161 (Brussels-Ottignies) and 124 (Brussels-Nivelles). Faced with the various contradictions, I had asked for a meeting with all the elected members of the Walloon Brabant. You came a few weeks after your appointment, and I thank you for that. During that meeting, some fears had been eased. Unfortunately, however, no clear budget framework and timetable for the finalization of the work had been presented. However, you mentioned an increase in supply with a partial four-lane roll-out until 2024 before a full four-lane roll-out. In relation to this, I confess that the recently published 2016-2020 multi-annual investment plan, in which no budget is foreseen for the finalisation of this work, we are concerned. This new document casts much doubt and concern on the finalization of the work. Today, I read in the press that according to your statements, the Walloon RER would be completed by 2027, indicating certain amounts. Mr Minister, I think it would be important for our committee if you could take stock of this timetable. Do you now have a clear and precise timetable for work on both lines and on finalisation? Can you provide a clear picture of what amounts will be required and what resources are available for this work? Because what worries me too in your statement is that you are again talking about 60/40 compensation. Here too, I would like a clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u45	Minister, my question is attached to 16 other questions. I am surprised, however, that all these questions are joined together. You are complaining about the number of questions you are asked in the Infrastructure Committee. I think the number of questions is up to the growing problems facing SNCB. This inflation of questions really reflects this. You may also be able to put on a website all the ad hoc answers, because many travellers ask themselves questions and go through us. Here, in particular, it is the escalator of the train station of Antwerp-Sud, which has not worked, not for 18 days or 18 months, but for 18 years. For 18 years, SNCB has promised to repair the escalator. In 2014, the TreinTramBus user association campaigned. On 21 November, the Antwerp District Council also filed a resolution at the request of the PTB to insist on the repair and installation of an elevator. SNCB replied that it was planned. But already in 1998, she replied that. We wonder what's going on. What is the status of plans to replace the South Antwerp Escalator? There is also a question of dock cover. Can you tell us what's going on? Clearly, there were plans to upgrade the station. The Antwerp District Council would like them? Could you intervene in this direction? My second question concerns the disinvestment on Infrabel's side. We have learned from the press, but perhaps you will overturn it, that this company will invest €4.41 billion in the network by 2020 instead of the $6.2 billion planned. In short, this is a $1.8 billion restriction. This is obviously a problem in terms of infrastructure management. After making efforts to reduce its debt, Infrabel must visibly increase it from what had been announced. We remember you talking about growing that debt. We are also hearing that the Walloon RER is still being postponed and that we are now talking about 2027 as the year of completion of this project, which, I believe, has been the subject of a formal commitment by the government. In addition, workers are required to increase their productivity. So my questions are as follows. Will this carry-over or budget shortfall be sufficient to replace the used infrastructure? In security investments, what is the share reserved for ETCS and how are the remaining resources distributed? How many full-time equivalents of Infrabel are at risk of disappearing under this legislature? The press announces a number of 2,713 full-time equivalents. Can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u46	Madam President, I am going to be extremely brief since I asked a question...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u47	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u48	I tabled this question by hearing it from the press, minister. Since you invited us there, I now get up earlier every morning, which makes it easier to take the train. So I read the press on the train. And sometimes I have time. Infrabel's PPI has made sure that Infrabel himself has communicated, as it will not have escaped you since I know that you are a subtle minister, disparaging comments. We find the foot of Infrabel's CEO. He doesn't discover himself, but he feels a little loose. In the press, he complains that he can no longer do anything about the ER. For example, he complains about the reduction of what you yourself described as Saint-Nicolas policy of the previous government in what had been announced at the level of the means to come. I will not repeat yesterday's debate. My questions will focus on maintaining capacity. What are the real figures in the approximately $4 billion spent on capacity maintenance? I agree with you that this is a considerable issue if we are to resolve the punctuality issues in the long run. Internal factors include rolling stock and infrastructure. For Infrabel, this is the infrastructure. There is also, of course, the question of the RER, in which Infrabel's CEO complains that he can no longer do anything. I know that the file is complex because there is this aspect of the IPP as we know it today and it is defined. Then there are other things to take into account that we will not recall here: the RER Fund, the loan says "virtuous". This loan is so virtuous that it is becoming more and more distant from our cities. Maybe that's the principle of the virtuous. Beyond that, the RER, on line 124, in a DH article this morning, seems to give us apocalyptic perspectives. I would therefore like to hear from you on this underlying issue in relation to permits, the delay in permits, and the difficulties in meeting deadlines that are still worthy of being known to the people who are interrogating you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u49	Minister, I will try to be very brief. We read in the press that there will be no new railway lines until 2020 and that Infrabel will no longer be able to invest. The fact that there must be very tempered ambitions is a direct consequence of the savings that the government imposes on the railways. If that happens, it will of course have consequences for a lot of things, including the GEN network around several major cities: Ghent, Antwerp, Brussels, Charleroi, Liège and so on. Since I suspect that you will give a very general answer again, I will specifically address my question to line 204 which is part of the GEN around Ghent. That's the port railroad. We have a very important port in Antwerp, but I will not hide the fact that the economic pole of all East Flanders is in Ghent. It is the port with the most added value, more than that of Antwerp. Transport is therefore very important there. There is also a very big problem of congestion. That railroad 204 is there. So it's a much smaller additional investment. It is currently being used, to a far too small extent, for the transport of goods. In a previous reply, you said that there are studies going on there. I told you then that I could give you a meter of studies. I am not exaggerating: a meter of studies that highlight the potential of this line in terms of passenger transport. It would take no less than 10 000 cars per day off the road should this line be installed. What is the future of this line? Is she also included in the savings? What about the study that you would make on this, again, additional?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u50	Mr President, my question is not specifically about an investment project, but about the possibilities for co-financing and pre-financing. I refer to the possibility created by the sixth state reform in Article 92a (4) ninth of the Special Law on the Reform of the Institutions, which provides the Region with the possibility of additional investment in the construction, adaptation or modernisation of railway lines. If the Region wishes to do so, a cooperation agreement can be concluded between the Region and the federal government. This is discussed in the Flemish Parliament, but your Flemish colleague, Minister Weyts, is talking about pre-financing as a possible option to accelerate certain investments. Minister, will the Multi-annual Investment Programme (MIP) take into account the possibility of co-financing? If co-financing is to take place, there must of course also be federal funding available for it. Co-financing means that every government takes care of a piece. The question is whether funds are provided for this. Are concrete projects co-financed included in the multi-annual investment programme? Have you received proposals from your Flemish colleague to pre-finance certain priorities? We must make a clear distinction between co-financing and pre-financing. If so, have you given an answer to the Minister? What does this mean? Will concrete pre-financing projects be included in the investment plan? Is pre-financing a possible legal slope or is that only possible for co-financing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u51	Madam President, I think you should, once the investment plans, management contracts and business plans have been adopted, invite SNCB bosses to come and introduce you to their methods. Indeed, contrary to what you might think, they have a lot of freedom for their transportation plan. There is a goal, it is the offer for the commuter, the quality of the offer. I've been asked for new stations at a very high cost. The answer is no. For me, what matters is the commuter. When I get out of here and go to political assemblies, they keep talking to me about stations, places in front of stations, toilets in stations, and other things. What matters is the trade of SNCB and Infrabel, i.e. transporting people and goods. He's an important employer. They occupy a vital activity. Everything must revolve around the commuter, the transport of goods, the node of quality connections. Things are very clear. I have twice rejected points relating to railway stations, via the government commissioner, which were useless.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u52	Minister, is this your answer to the seventeen questions? We are here in a question-and-answer session. We had a very long debate on the policy note. You should have made that remark at that time. We ask for an exchange of views and these are not accepted. I ask you to answer the seventeen questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u53	I will respond roughly to what I said yesterday in my policy note. With regard to management contracts between the State and undertakings, Article 162decies § 6 of the 1991 Law provides that the business plan is a precondition for the conclusion of the management contract. As companies have a draft business plan, negotiations with them for the development of a respective management contract have entered a new phase. For their multi-annual investment plans, both companies have been aware of the available funds since June. Both SNCB and Infrabel have drawn up business plans and, in parallel, a draft multi-annual investment plan. Meanwhile, the new multi-annual investment plan was adopted. Infrabel's plan is still to be approved by the Governing Board of 19 December 2016. The Council of Ministers of 2 December approved the draft royal decree determining the composition and functioning of the investment unit. This investment unit will operate on two levels: first, at the technical level, with the public services concerned, i.e. representatives of the Regions and the Federal State and, second, at the strategic level. The draft IPP will also be the subject of a presentation and a request for an opinion from the Regions and an opinion from the Executive Committee of all mobility ministers in that country. This draft royal decree was the subject of a request for an opinion to the Council of State pursuant to article 84, paragraph 1, of the coordinated laws on the Council of State. The opinion of the Regions was also requested. We are waiting for this opinion today. However, we have already requested that the Mobility and Transport FPS analyse the two IPPs in order to ensure the proper coordination of the two companies in terms of investment. The SPF will analyse these two IPPs also taking into account the fact sheets that have been introduced by the Regions. A meeting is scheduled for 21 December between the SPF and the companies, following which the investment unit will meet with the regional public services to analyse the technical aspects of the two IPPs. Finally, the dossier will be presented to the Ministerial Select Committee in order to mandate the Minister of Mobility to present the IPP to the Regions and to the Executive Committee of the Ministers of Mobility for their opinion. This complements all the information already provided in response to the various questions concerning the virtuous billion. I also refer you to what I said yesterday with regard to the ER and the total expenditure planned by Infrabel, in particular the $4.4 billion. I would point out that the 4.4 billion in Infrabel will have to be added to the billion in additional loans. In order to establish the situation of the RER, we look forward very impatiently to the conclusions of the Court of Auditors' work. Mr Van den Bergh, as far as pre-financing is concerned, so far I have not had a proposal from the Flemish Government. Line 204 will be examined under the Multiannual Investment Plan in the envelope available under key 60/40, 60 on the Flemish side. The 40 will be discussed with the Walloon regional authorities. That's all I could tell you. I apologise for not going into detail but you will have every opportunity to do so when the conductors of the rail, with whom I can come, will be invited to respond in detail on management contracts, investment plans and business plans that are underlying the whole process.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u54	Mr President, I am surprised that the President has disappeared. I have not heard an answer at all with regard to the Ottignies station. Minister, I still wanted to say, without irritating myself, because you started talking about the stations, that I see what you're referring to. But I can't follow you by saying that it has no impact. I'll invite you to Ottignies station one morning. The question was not about the outside, so not about the "calatravesques"
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u55	I may have misunderstood my thinking. For me, a train station, it's docks, shelters, a no-lost room.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u56	I didn't get an answer to my question. I had summarized it orally but it was denser in writing. Flying verba, scripta manent. When I described the importance of the Ottignies station, it's not to make a new pyramid. The most beautiful are in Egypt. They are only used to bury a Pharaoh who is dead but believes in eternity. Whatever. In Ottignies, the passage under lanes in rush hours with strollers, with students who have to look for connections, is an unnamed combatant's route for this station which is the second station in Wallonia in terms of number of passengers. If this does not impact the commuters who miss their correspondence – I have checked it several times – we are not there in the same considerations. I can hear what you're telling me. But I'm talking about the masterplan promised for years to do this in the Ottignies station, not the beautifications we can find elsewhere. I shortened but understand – as the other said – my emotion. I think the Ottignies station deserves better than considerations about things that it absolutely does not have to blush. She doesn't have to blame herself for what might have been wrong elsewhere. Therefore, the Ottignies station should not suffer twice: not having received its due at a certain time and not receiving the elementary because it did not have its due.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u57	Minister, I also did not have an answer on Wavre station. I take note of this and we will continue to question you. This may also be why you often have an important list of questions. As for the RER, I won't be much longer. I asked you again about the funding. There too, unfortunately, we did not have an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u58	Madam President, I'm glad you're back.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u59	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u60	You don't have to apologize. It's very healthy and I congratulate you. We all have to. I am very cautious about this session. We're going to spend a lot of time together. We got few, if any, answers. Believe it, minister, I'm not the only one who thinks it on these benches. Majority as a minority, we share this disarray this afternoon. I will not be able to comment on your answer because I did not have one. Madam Chair, let us be very careful because, while the cabinet's option is to drown the discussion, we believe that parliamentarians can also make sure that they use a commission to spend a lot of time together! Believe it's true on one side or the other! What's going on this afternoon is good for once!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I really don't know what to say in my reply. We must not talk about broken stairs here. I remember that oral questions were once put in committee, and I am now looking at Mr Van den Bergh, who was also present at that meeting, about the number of toilet rolls at the Blankenberge or Ostend station, and I am now missing the exact station. In all wisdom, we sat together with all the members of the committee to organise the work and make it useful. The way things are going, I don't think it's gonna do much good.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u62	It's hard to reply, since I didn't get any answers either. None of the members present here appear to have received a response. I sought the Minister's opinion on the reopening of the Valenciennes-Mons line. You didn't say a word about it. You didn't even say Valenciennes' name. I wonder even if you've heard my question. I'll obviously come back and ask you until I get an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u63	I imagine you've globalized your lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u64	Minister, I asked you a specific question, not on a local issue, but on a general subject, which is the subject of the oral question. Like other Members of this House, I have not received a specific answer. I have heard in your reply that you want to put the problems of delays in the hands of the railway companies and, above all, in the shoes of Infrabel. You tell the committee to invite and question representatives of the company. I refuse to go along with that logic. You're the overseeing minister. You have government commissioners on those boards of directors. I really hope they've already opened their mouths. I'll check it out through a written question. After all, that is what I wanted to find out. As a government, we have a huge responsibility in these companies, especially with regard to travellers and taxpayers, and I do not need to repeat that here. Finally, Minister, there are many discussions today about who is responsible for mobility. About Infrabel and SNCB you have full authority. I will repeat this in a written question: what initiatives have you taken as the overseeing minister to speed up the delays in the management contracts and plans?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u65	Minister, as I have anticipated, your consolidated response is a consolidated non-response. You had 34 minutes to answer the questions. You used two to not answer. I asked you a specific question about the train station in Antwerp South where, for 18 years, an escalator has been promised. You talked in your introduction earlier about toilets that are the least of your worries. Your concern is the commuters. Excuse me, but there are also commuters who have mobility problems, in the narrow sense of the word, and who have to take an escalator. Commuters have to go to the bathroom in a train station. It exists and is part of Infrabel's and SNCB's work. I will ask this precise question in writing. I think above all, Minister, that the explosion of questions shows that you are really overwhelmed by the situation and by this explosion of problems. Indeed, you are not the only one responsible. The situation and your predecessors have contributed to it, but the problems are accumulating and, at some point, it is exploding. We're here today. You may be angry with the managers of the transport companies, but you should also be angry, in the first place, with yourself. It is this government's policy that today there is underinvestment in railway companies, which is the cause of the current problems. You can't hide your face either, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for the answer to the question on pre-financing. I did not get an answer to the question about cofinancing. I suppose I'll get an answer to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u67	Madam President, I have just arrived because I am moving on several committees successively. I realize that by listening (...) Even for this question, I see that we (...) These are completely different lines...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u68	(...) we will organize ourselves for the month of January. This is the first time this has happened and it will not happen anymore, but I ask that the debate no longer be opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u69	Madam President, Minister, I am not talking about all the lines, but specifically about line 96. I understand that I will receive an answer and do not reply, please, that there will be a specific manager for each line, including line 96. I would like to touch on this point in two respects. First, it is a major issue since it is one of the most catastrophic lines in Belgium, compared to non-compliance with punctuality. It must be said that, during rush hours, less than one train in two is on time on this line, even though Minister Galant had certified us, "promise, swear, spit out", two years ago, that she would take strong specific measures on this line. It must be recognized that this is a line that goes through Jurbise and, despite the commitment of Minister Galant, the situation is worse today than before. I also insist because this line 96 goes beyond Mons, to Frameries and Quévy and concerns a significant number of commuters and above all an important mobility logic. These commuters must not leave their homes and come by car to Mons, thus contributing to the congestion of the entrances of the large cities already saturated. One of the great difficulties is that there has been a removal of the direct line from Quévy to Brussels, now a year ago. Moreover, I have just discovered a bit by chance the longer schedules – application, no doubt, of the new transport plan. For three quarters of the trips from Quévy-Frameries to Brussels, there will be an increase of ten minutes on the way back and forth. Since 2014, there will have been an increase of 20 minutes to go and 20 minutes to return, which increases the journey time by one hour by 30%. It's obviously huge. In view of this difficult situation, is it possible to review the current timetables? Beyond one manager per line, and given Minister Galant's ineffective actions, what are the specific steps you are going to take to enforce punctuality on line 96? The commuters are desperate, and I weigh my words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u70	Madam President, Minister, there are desperate commuters in every corner of Wallonia and perhaps even in Flanders. As far as I am concerned, I am particularly interested in a line that you are supposed to know, namely line 162, particularly between Ciney and Namur where the situation is critical because of the work that is under way and the establishment, since the beginning of November, of a single-track service between Ciney and Sart-Bernard in the municipality of Assesse. Over this section, the omnibus trains are replaced during the week by buses. However, commuters regularly miss the connection between the train and the bus due to the delay recorded by the train. Moreover, the conditions of comfort and safety of the persons concerned are very inadequate, despite the efforts made by the municipality of Assesse to try to improve things. Very recently, some 20 commuters travelling through the omnibus from Namur had to see, once they arrived in Sart-Bernard, that the bus had not waited for them. They had to wait an hour, in the cold, along the road with the risks that this entails in terms of safety. In another log, a few days earlier, a convoy was blocked for three hours at the exit of Ciney without any specific information being provided to the passengers. This disastrous situation cannot continue, at the risk of permanently discouraging commuters who, if they can afford to do so, will prefer the car at the risk of increasing car congestion. It is therefore essential to take specific measures for travellers from the South of Namibia. Minister, can you provide an update on the progress of work between Ciney and Namur? Can this project be accelerated? How long will the situation be normalized? Is it possible to re-establish a train service that is more efficient than a bus service? Since the work of the ER has not yet begun, can SNCB consider tightening the timetable? Indeed, the journeys are extended without this extension being useful for the work. What solutions will SNCB bring to the commuters in order to limit the inconvenience they face? What compensatory measures have been envisaged? Is work done on schedule adjustments and better coordination with TECs? Is it envisaged, for example, to provide for additional stops at peak P train hours in a station such as Courrières in order to provide additional access to Namur and Brussels for many commuters? Can the need to secure connections to Brussels, from Namur, be taken more into account in order to prevent them from accumulating delays which can have far-reaching consequences, as you imagine? This is one of the many problems encountered on this line.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u71	Minister, I do not teach you anything if I convey to you the anger of the commuters who use the Quiévrain-Mons-Bruxelles line every day, who are overwhelmed by the delays in rush hours. I am particularly familiar with the problem because I am a commuter myself and I am confronted with this situation. On average, it is eight minutes of time lost, every day, on the journey to the capital, according to the annual report of commuters.be. The Mons-Brussels line is therefore the line most affected by delays. Petitions, letters, reports, inquiries, working groups, nothing, the situation on line 96 remains difficult. In the light of your recent statements, I am afraid there will be no improvement. In the media and in a reply to an excavated commuter, you explained the delays as follows: "I want to refocus mobility policy on travellers." That's what you said earlier. "Unfortunately, in Mons, we made the choice of a beautiful and gigantic station, at the expense of the network." You think we could have invested that money in the network, or that's a common argument. But when you say that, you don't bring solutions. It's like you're telling the travelers that until the new train station in Mons is over, we can still run so that our trains are on time. Beyond comments on Infrabel's choice, what concrete initiatives are you taking to improve the situation of commuters on this line? What is the status of the working group "Punctuality line 96", which had been set up by Jacqueline Galant to analyse the delays on the Mons-Brussels line. I heard about its implementation a few months ago, but never the results of its work. Will any solutions be finally made?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u72	Madam President, my question also concerns questions of punctuality on the so-called boring lines, and it echoes the concerns of my colleagues and those discussed from yesterday to more thirsty... I would just like to stress the problem of comparing methodologies. On the one hand, we have the official figures that Infrabel and SNCB give us and which reflect a situation where, in 2016, everything is not so bad since we are in an average punctuality of 88.6% in rush hours, morning and evening. On the other hand, the methodology of the commuters.be association comes to figures that are simply unworthy of a modern railway since line 96, in particular, is heavily affected by delays. You know that this association is serious and that they are not amateurs, they carry out a real substantive work. Between 2015 and 2016, this association arrived at figures showing the punctuality of trains on the Mons-Bruxelles line at 48%, meaning that they were less than six minutes late, in other words. For Binche-Bruxelles, the punctuality is 47% and 50% on the Arlon-Bruxelles line to take another example. Minister, I already know your answer and I had no surprise listening to you earlier. You sent an acknowledgment mail, I'm aware of it. For form and for history, you have announced quick solutions. Do you expect real answers? (I adapt my question somewhat) In particular on these so-called boring lines, do you expect any particular solutions, since the figures are particularly bad? Finally, I suppose you'll be paying attention like us if ever, in the PPI, we had solutions to improve the situation on these boring lines?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u73	Madam Chair, Minister, sometimes delays have an advantage. Yesterday, when I left the commission, I was able to get the hour 47 train, which was eight minutes late at the Central Station. Thanks to this, I was able to be at home relatively early. However, the situation on the Belgian railways is deteriorating. Delays are increasing, making it difficult for many commuters who arrive late to work and who are sometimes not guaranteed to return home at a reasonable time in the evening. However, Minister, at the time of the previous plan put in place at the end of 2014, the timetables had been changed in order to extend the journey time in order to cope with the increase in the number of passengers and the number of trains put into service – which are good things, as Mr Cheron pointed out for the Nivelles line that has just been strengthened – in order to avoid any risk of congestion. The staff in charge of the management of the Brussels stations managed this growing traffic as best they could. However, at the Brussels-Central station, trains are often obliged to park in the corridors, pending the release of the docks by another train. Users must take their pains in patience early in the morning to see their train arrive late, sometimes after the next one on the schedule, with all the confusions, races from dock to dock, difficulties for less able people, stress that causes, etc. On the way, there too, the durations are longer and longer. The transport time has sometimes been doubled. Trains are often undercapacity compared to the number of cars and seats provided by SNCB itself. This undercapacity is further increased by the removal or significant delay of certain trains, forcing passengers to travel standing on the entire route. Minister, you have made the quality of customer service the backbone of your transportation policy. Therefore, in the face of this situation, you asked the officials of SNCB and Infrabel to finally stop their ego quarrels and to tell you the reasons for these delays and how to remedy them. Minister, can you tell us how much of SNCB's and Infrabel's independent reasons are in the multiplication of these delays? Can you give us more details on the reasons given? Is this the task of improving or increasing the rail network? Furthermore, at what time will the new cars and motors ordered be on the rails? Finally, you asked for a manager to be appointed per line. When will these people be operational?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u74	Minister, I think I'm the fifth to mention line 96. I therefore hope that we will have at least one specific answer on line 96, since I am the fifth to ask a question on this line. More specifically, I am relaying a petition that has been launched to complain about the delays. This petition received more than 1,000 signatures in a few days or even a few hours. I think this is a fairly good expression of the travellers' ras-le-bol on a line parallel to the one I am taking myself, which has been mentioned by a colleague and which has the same rates of delay. I will not repeat what colleagues have already said, but ras-le-bol is really very important. Minister, do you confirm the figures that have been cited or can you move forward with others? What are the main causes of these delays on line 96? Are you considering specific measures on line 96 to resolve the situation? Also consider initiatives to avoid the growing isolation of stations downstream of Mons, when you go in the direction of Mons-Bruxelles. I continue with my question on line 161, which was also raised by Mr Gilkinet. I'm talking about a specific section. Let's say, Minister, we have a bit of a reverse RER situation on line 161, that is, we have unpredictable and unexplained decreases in train frequency on weekends. In concrete terms, this is the section of just 14 kilometres between Ottignies and Brussels, more precisely between Boitsfort and Rixensart. It's typically a RER section. On the weekend, without the passengers knowing why, a train every two hours is deleted, purely and simply. At some time, the planned train is there and the other hour, the scheduled train is not there. So it's a train deleted at 0818, at 1018, at 1218, at 1418, without any explanation! In addition, RER work is stopped. For several weekends, one train in two was removed, without explanation, including – it's a peak – on September 18, the date of the day without a car and mobility. What is the cause of these significant frequency reductions? It is not a question of delays, it is a question of trains being abolished. I don't know why you put this together with the questions about the delay. Does this not pose serious mobility problems and the reliability of SNCB? Does this also happen on other lines? What arrangements do you intend to make for this problem? I will keep the floor to speak of your "mouthing" when you declare that you want to take action on the delays. You should also push him against Minister Bellot. I will not go back to the numbers of delays and the problems of punctuality, but it is certain that the situation is reaching a critical threshold, far above that of last year, which was already high. You say you want to appoint line managers. What will they be able to do in practice? What solutions will they bring? How many managers have you planned? There will be additional hirings or will this be done on the workforce of transport companies? What skills will they need? Will they come from SNCB or Infrabel?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u75	Madam Chair, Minister, the press recently reported on an emergency meeting between the delegated directors of SNCB and Infrabel and yourself regarding the latest report of very bad punctuality of commuters.be. This report denounces recurring delays on line 96 Mons-Bruxelles. As the question may not be followed by an answer, we ask it five times! Line 96 is a line that MM is familiar with. Van Hees and Flahaux. Mr. Van Hees still borrows it on a daily basis. I borrowed it at a time when I was working in a cabinet, with the MR and Ecolo. Mr. Bellot, times are changing. The friends of one day are sometimes the ones who bother you the next day! Minister, you said you had to take care of the commuters. You can ask Mr. Van Hees how many toilets there are at the station he frequents every morning. None. The station also has only one macadamie sidewalk. The commuters park on a few cobblestones that date from a time we haven't known and walk in the mud. If for you it is a caricature, for us it is a daily reality! I also refer to lines 161 and 162 because we are also thinking in Luxembourg. I know you've been very harsh about Wallonia since yesterday. We'll still be a few to defend it and talk about it well. A petition is online to denounce the frequent delays on the Mons-Brussels line. It totals hundreds of signatures. Minister, what came out of this emergency meeting? What short- and medium-term measures do you intend to take to improve the punctuality of trains on these lines? I cannot believe that a tripartite summit meeting with the Minister and the delegated directors of SNCB and Infrabel will be concluded without important decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u76	This is a sad reality for a large number of commuters, the punctuality of trains has deteriorated in recent times in an unacceptable way. This is particularly the case on lines 94, 96, 161, 162, 89 and 50A. Your various questions reflect the current discomfort and the daily difficulties faced by travellers, mainly commuters. Indicatively, last week's punctuality rate fell 8.2 per cent compared to the same week of 2015 and the previous week was 7.1 per cent. On 23 November last I therefore summoned the punctuality of both companies to my cabinet to sound the alarm. I have formulated the idea of setting up line managers to analyse the "sick" lines and propose solutions in order to achieve results as soon as possible. I also wrote a letter to the CEOs of SNCB and Infrabel and to the members of the two boards of directors to underline the urgent need for measures to break the negative spiral. I understand from SNCB and Infrabel that on 6 December last there was a meeting on the question of punctuality between the delegates. directors of both companies. At that meeting the causes of the low punctuality were discussed and the measures to be taken were discussed. Both companies have decided to continue the implementation of their Action Plan Stipity and to take actions to reduce the impact of the works and reduce the number of incidents involving infrastructure and equipment. Infrabel and SNCB tell me about other measures, which I will list you. Continued attention will be paid to the first departures. The discipline and vigilance of the operational staff of the two companies will be increased. In addition, efforts will be made to combat the phenomenon of people on the road. In addition to the actions already under way, an intensification of preventive measures will be carried out, for example in the form of a presence of the teams of Securail in Brussels stations during peak hours. The infrastructure manager's regulations will be revised to try to reduce the impact of the phenomenon. I have reported the designation of line managers for those who have a recurring problem in terms of punctuality. They will be responsible for the monitoring of trains, the consequences of incidents caused by delays and the development of concrete solutions aimed at structurally improving the punctuality of the line allocated to them. They will be asked to take specific measures for fragile lines. They will be operational in early 2017. These line managers will not operate in real time. They will be responsible for one or more lines that have a recurring punctuality problem. The line manager is someone who is already in service at Infrabel or SNCB and who has a knowledge of the line and train service. Ms Fonck, with particular reference to Line 96, Infrabel launched an infrastructure modernisation project on a track between Mons and Quévy between December 2016 and April 2017. During this period, the trains cannot cross between these two stations between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. As a result, the service of the trains in off-peak hours is adapted by about 10 minutes to allow the work of Infrabel during the construction period. The claims are therefore correct: the work will be carried out during a period of four months and only during the off-peak hours, informs Infrabel. With regard to the delays on line 96, three cases were identified by Infrabel and SNCB. This is first of all the work at Mons station. Then, a slowing notice is in effect between boring H and Tubize and should end today. Finally, external causes, the increase in which is still relatively worrying. With regard to lines 161 and 162, six projects are currently under way. The length of the single lanes between Namur and Ciney is particularly important and the slightest incident that occurs there results in very long delays. Delays and work lead to problems of correspondence, particularly with buses between Sart-Bernard and Ciney. SNCB was asked to find a solution because, indeed, if a train is too late, the bus is not waiting. People must wait at least three quarters of an hour to get the next bus. With regard to the planning of work on lines 161 and 162, I have not received the information from Infrabel and will insist that I be able to obtain it accurately. With regard to the meetings between CEOs, SNCB officials and the Minister on punctuality and Infrabel, I have answered you what was happening. I expect, as of the beginning of January 2017, concrete measures to be able to combat this deterioration of punctuality, which is the daily lot of too many commuters especially during rush hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u77	Minister, thank you for your answers. As far as line 96 is concerned, I understand that this would be a construction site that would explain the increase in the length of the journey. However, there was already a significant increase in the length of the journey in 2015. I call on you to ensure that your remarks are respected, that you return to a journey time as it existed until the end of November and that commuters are not, once again, penalized. They've already paid for it before and widely, and it wasn't provisional! As regards the punctuality of line 96 and more broadly, I would like to make two comments. First, line managers already exist in Infrabel. I expect to see what these new line managers, even though they are already effective, will bring positive results. I'll give you the benefit of the doubt. Second, when it comes to punctuality, you have to call a cat, a cat. In practice, why is punctuality significantly worsen? That's because you and the government decided to significantly amputate budgets. In reality, there is a lack of track maintenance. Indeed, it is not possible to have optimal and efficient maintenance when budgets are cut. And when there is a lack of track maintenance, trains must slow down mainly for safety reasons and to avoid accidents and tragedies. Today, if you want to improve punctuality, your responsibility is to stop these permanent budget amputations and reinvest so that track maintenance can be done properly. The mail you sent to the administrators is a firewall to try to cover you up and try to hide the fire. Commuters are, today, the direct victims of the budgetary decisions and the lack of a political vision of your government's mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u78	Mr President, Minister, it has been a long time since I asked a question in the Committee on Infrastructure. But I must note that the situation is problematic in all regions of the country and that it is relayed by all my colleagues. In my view, this is the consequence of SNCB's disinvestment. In doing so, writing to SNCB, appointing managers, is sending the hot potato back to others. As far as the really problematic situation of line 161 and the commuters between Ciney and Namur is concerned, there is perhaps a small additional consideration to the extent that you are geographically close, as Rochefortois, to this line. But your answers leave me hungry. You asked for a schedule of work. However, it should be considered whether the latter could not be accelerated and whether two-line sections could not be reintroduced to limit inconvenience. Priority should be given to commuters who need to make connections, and consideration should be given, even if this does not change much, to a commercial gesture towards the persons concerned. This is, moreover, the meaning of a motion recently voted unanimously by the communal council of Assesse and forwarded to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u79	Thank you, Minister, for that clarification. We no longer speak, we have received no report from the working group on punctuality, implemented by your predecessor Jacqueline Galant. Many delays are due to a lack of maintenance of the line. I am told that many elements of the line are expected to fail naturally to replace them. There is a lack of preventive maintenance policy. As a result, there is a constant disinvestment on the rail. There was another big delay, a week ago, for a broken train in the direction of Binche. A broken train, it's not someone crossing the tracks, it's a material, maintenance, so disinvestment problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u80	Madam Chair, I take note of the minister's response and I am not going to break the nail again. I want to quote Leo Ferré: "Desperation is a higher form of criticism."
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u81	It is true that there is a great frustration. When the trains arrive with three cars rather than six, that the controller threatens not to start the train if we persist in wanting to climb in, it's a bit bisting. That being said, it must be acknowledged that work is being done and you have referred to boredom. We're changing all the tracks on that side. We have just replaced the Infrabel bridge, just outside Braine-le-Comte, in the direction of Soignies and Morlanwelz. But, often too, the information is somewhat deficient and it is an element on which to rely. People can understand that there are delays, but we must first and foremost, all the time, explain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u82	Mr Minister, you have answered some of the questions asked by my colleague Gilkinet about line 161, but I would like to ask a specific question: why, on the weekend, is one train out of two deleted? You don't have an answer to that question! Another question that I will have to ask again! As far as lines 96 and 161 are concerned, you referred to work. I find this explanation a little easy. If every time there is work, the delays are infernal, your answer is not enough, minister. You were asking for line managers! Who believes that this will be a solution because if they see problems and the problem lies in underinvestment, we will not make progress! We can already make this observation today. When one sees, through statistics, what are the main causes of delays, they are each due to your policy of disinvestment, "your" implied that of the government! When it is said that the first cause is SNCB's equipment, it is your disinvestment policy When it is said that the second cause is the disruption of the infrastructure, it is again due to your disinvestment policy. When people are mentioned on the roads – and I have a question about it – it is still a problem of disinvestment because there is a lack of infrastructure preventing people from walking on the tracks. Indeed, specific solutions must be found, but don't hide your face against the root causes of these delays! In my opinion, this is going to get worse and your position is going to become more and more difficult, minister. Unfortunately, I am not guessing, but I think that your situation will become difficult to maintain, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u83	Mr Van Hees, indeed, neither Ferré nor Devin belong to you. But you know I'm your best advocate for mobility. Minister: finally, an answer! You see, not only am I always right, but also I'm right. There, you're giving an answer in three steps. You recognize the unacceptable difficulties faced by commuters on these lines. Two Ecolo interventions, two socialist interventions, Mrs Fonck, who is moving. And I see that in the answer, there is a particular mention for Mrs Fonck. Mr. Van Hees, too, was entitled to your answer. I am the same railway as Mr Flahaux: Binche, La Louvière, Braine-le-Comte, Brussels. You've recognized these problems. You've exposed us to the ways in which you can solve this problem. The second part of the answer: you will end up recognizing that this is only the beginning of the problems. When a catenary looses, it is just a realization of what Infrabel tells us: "We no longer have the means to properly maintain what is necessary to maintain" – and therefore the catenaries. Then we will see ourselves saying that some ways can no longer be well maintained. Then stations will be closed. And this will continue. Third thing, I'll take my hat off you. Because Mr. Van Hees is not a guess, but not only do you recognize the unacceptable difficulties, but today you are coming to announce the next ones. On Mons-Quévy, you tell us: there is work. But sincerely, if there are disruptions because of work, we can understand that. But if we have to expect disruptions every time there's the least work, we'll end up not doing it anymore, because it's going to disturb everyone. But how can we improve our network? Madam President, I believe that the debate is far from over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u84	Mr Minister, for many years, students from the province of Luxembourg and South-Namurois who, on Sunday evenings, take up the train to reach university cities, are regularly confronted with crowded trains. If not all trains are involved in the same way, it should be recognised that IC 2141 is particularly problematic to Namur, especially if the connection to Liège is not ensured in Marloie. The testimonies of students who have been brought to my knowledge refer to really chaotic situations. Undoubtedly, the choice of rolling stock in the composition of this train is not unrelated to the problem. The use of old international cars is indeed a question. Although you have recently stated that 17.4% of the rolling stock is immobilized, which is quite disturbing, I do not think it is for students to systematically charge for it, on the pretext that they benefit from an attractive rate. Let's always keep in mind that they're tomorrow's commuters. In addition, if the problems encountered by the students on Sunday evening on the Arlon-Namur train of 6:31 p.m. caught my attention in particular, it came back to me that similar situations would exist on other routes. And now I'm not talking about Friday returns, which are also problematic. Minister, how do you explain that old, impractical international cars can fit into the composition of a high-occupancy train? How many double-storey trainsets are available to SNCB and how are they distributed between the two regions of the country? Are you considering, as part of the new transportation plan, some arrangements to meet the expectations of students, especially students who use IC 2141? Is there a cadastre of trains operating in Wallonia on Sunday and Friday night that pose a problem of overoccupation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u85	Dear colleague, the IC 2141 train, referred to above, consists of five M6 double-storey cars and six international single-storey cars, for a total capacity of 1010 seats. Since this train comes from Luxembourg, only equipment certified in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg is suitable for the route. These are either AM26 motor vehicles with a maximum capacity of 848 seats, M6 double-deck cars or I6-I10 international cars. Given the need for double-deck cars throughout the network at the dawn of Monday morning, SNCB informs me that it does not have the ability to take this Sunday evening trip to Brussels with nine double-deck cars, unlike the departures from Arlon at 16h32 and 18h00, which have 1,152 seats. The SNCB has 56 M6 or M5 double-storey trainsets. The majority of these trains, i.e. 38%, circulate in regionally mixed relations, such as Charleroi-Brussels-Anvers, Courtrai-Brussels-Welkenraedt or Binche-Brussels-Turnhout. 41% of the other trains run on Flanders-Flandre or Flanders-Brussels relations, compared with 21% of the trains in Wallonia-Brussels relations. In the absence of regionally mixed relations, there is therefore a distribution of Flanders-Wallonia of the order of 65-35 for double-storey trainsets. According to SNCB, this ratio corresponds to the distribution of demand observed, with 64.7% of SNCB passengers travelling to a station in Flanders compared with 35.3% in a Walloon station, excluding Brussels. SNCB informs me that it occasionally finds overoccupation on train IC 2141 on some Sundays, even though train P 8621 circulates specifically for students. It was put in place during the 2012 transport plan and travels 30 minutes earlier, with 1,152 seats. SNCB notes that there are still many seating positions on train P, as well as on IC 2142 operating one hour after IC 2141. I have also personally noted this on two occasions. Seats are available in the first two cars, as well as in the train's tail cars. This is a general finding; travellers tend to concentrate on cars that stop at the level of the stairs at the station, and do not divide over the whole train, which yet has 9 cars. I ask SNCB to better inform its customers about the possibilities of transportation that are at its disposal and that can prove to be excellent alternatives to IC 2141. SNCB adds that it conducts daily reviews of all occupations and over-occupations on its network, and that it re-evaluates the commissioning of its equipment on a monthly basis, in particular to reduce the number of over-occupied trains. This study takes into account both structurally over-occupied trains in normal situations and over-occupied trains for one-off reasons of equipment damage or traffic failure of other nearby trains. In addition, a report detailing all over-occupied trains and the measures applied to overcome the problem is presented to the management committee of the undertaking on a monthly basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u86	Minister, I still see that between 65% and 35% there is a large gap. If it were normally studied, we wouldn't get there. It's a fact, the trains are crowded. You say there are empty trainsets. That's not what the evidence says. Even in first class it's crowded. I read some testimonials: "Take the train is an unnamed calvary"; "Every week it's the same song, the train is crowded, which forces us to sit down on the floor"; "When we go up to Libramont, there are already people sitting on the stairs, so we can sit on our suitcase in the hallways"; "We are even obliged to stack the luggage in the toilet, preventing anyone from going there if the need arises." You see it yourself, we're with crowded trains, even if you say cars are empty, which I can't believe. There's a security problem. Let's imagine an unexpected shock. You become responsible. The situation must be reviewed to avoid such situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u87	Madam President, Minister, this is actually a follow-up question to questions put together by Mrs Lalieux and myself, who were on the agenda of a meeting at which I could not, however, be present. However, you answered my questions for which thank you and one of the aspects of your answer was the shortage of train supervisors and drivers on the Dutch-speaking side, namely 40 and 80 people respectively. Another debate we have had on this subject concerns the duration of basic training for additional knowledge of equipment and linework and so on. We also discussed the large draft decision on the longer working hours of a number of staff, creating additional concerns. This would also be reflected in the number of requests to go to private operators, as wage and working conditions would be better there. How many men and women are currently taking part in training to become a train driver, given the shortage you spoke to us about a few weeks ago. Are there any additional initiatives to reduce the deficit? Is there an exit call with people leaving? Is it effective about changing the retirement age, or are there other reasons for leaving? Following the submission of this question, I saw a job fair organised by SNCB on 3 December 2016. Do you have a visual on how many people there are offering? What percentage effectively starts with the training and what percentage is prevented?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u88	Minister, we recently learned from the press that of the 32,357 employees in SNCB, 4,593 are women. In addition, according to HR Rail figures, 157 women drive trains compared to 4,020 men. What do you think of this situation and what are your actions in this regard? In addition, SNCB's new business plan foresees that the public enterprise will work with a workforce of 16,955 employees in 2020. However, in its initial plan, the number of staff planned for 2020 was 17,241. Minister, can you give us the reasons for this downsizing of the public enterprise? Can you tell us how this staff reduction will be implemented? Are, however, staff commitments planned? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u89	Madam President, there are currently 160 men and 19 women in training as train drivers at SNCB. SNCB informs me that it will intensify and expand its recruitment campaign. She will do this by using, among other things, various TV channels, cinemas, social forums and also through her presence at job fairs. It also explores how to cooperate more closely with the VDAB. Thereafter, the effectiveness of the current recruitment process will be examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u90	Excuse me, but I asked a question in French and I have an answer in Dutch. It's your right, too, but I don't have any more translations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u91	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u92	That's it. There was a technical problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u93	Minister, you can continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u94	I thank Mr. Interpreter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u95	It's not just on the track that there's trouble.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u96	It's already settled here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u97	HR Rail will launch several initiatives in the coming months to attract more candidate drivers. Firstly, there will be a publication in newspapers, online newspapers and social media, coupled with a publicity campaign on various TV channels and in the Flemish and Brussels cinemas. Secondly, there is cooperation with the VDAB. Thirdly, school visits are planned. Fourthly, HR Rail will be present at job fairs. Finally, jobs are offered at www.derailwayenwervenaan.be. Various information sessions will be organised in the coming months. A job day was already organized on 3 December. A job train will also be installed. The main reason is that the labour market of technicians is very tight, especially in Flanders. In addition, SNCB also notes that young people are increasingly looking up to irregular hours and weekend work. SNCB states that it has strong indications that other operators face the same problems. To continue on this subject of staff and to answer Mr Devin's questions, the Belgian railways employed, as of 1 November 2016, 32,165 persons, of whom 4,591 were women. The train driving environment employs 4,163 people, of whom 159 are women. As I have just explained, different actions are being taken to recruit more women and, more generally, more train drivers. More specifically for women, I can add the Expo Girl Power in the stations of Brussels-Central, Bruges, Saint-Nicolas, Ottignies and Tournai. Employment events are also announced on the website www.pathsdeferenger.be. Finally, SNCB points out to me that, for budgetary reasons and as part of the increase in productivity, a slight adjustment has been made to the number of staff planned for 2020. This downsizing will take the form of natural departures. Some officers who leave SNCB will not be replaced primarily in non-operational services. This mainly concerns administrative, accounting and legal staff. The 16,955 full-time equivalents referred to provide out-of-impact staffing of the 100 full-time equivalents to be hired for safety and non-rolling personnel for the future transportation plan. The business plan includes this staff well and the number of full-time equivalents expected at the end of 2020 will, in fact, be 17,251 workers, which is almost the same as the original plan, taking into account the transfer of agents to SNCB Logistics. Reduction of the number of staff will be addressed through the merger of offices, division of labour and future computerization and digitization. As I have already pointed out, the reduction in staff will focus on administrative staff. For 2016, SNCB requested 1,782 new employees from HR Rail. Selections had been organized mainly for train drivers, train attendants, technicians, academics, safety staff and station deputy heads. By 30 November, 1,162 new staff had already been recruited, not to mention the 260 pre-recruitment staff. This year, just as will be the case at the beginning of next year, HR Rail has regularly organized selections targeting more particularly those in need, technicians, train drivers and train attendants. The planned commitments will therefore focus on operational personnel as a result of the new transportation plan and retirements. For 2017, the SNCB Executive Committee has already agreed to the recruitment of 1,239 full-time equivalents, broken down as follows: B-Transport, 1,001 full-time equivalents (station conductors, attendants and sub-heads); B-Technics, 175 full-time equivalents (technical staff); B-Stations, 63 full-time equivalents (technical staff). That, Madam President, is the figures that I could give to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u98	Minister, I will read the specific details in the report. The reason for my question was the following. I have now noted that there are 160 men and 19 women in training to become train drivers or escorts. The element of the shortage in the labour market is certainly right for the technical profiles. Many companies have a problem with that. I can follow you in that. But that problem doesn't really arise for train attendants and train drivers. The reason I asked this question is as follows. During the summer period, additional trains are always laid in. I fear that if the deficits are not eliminated, the workload of those who remain today will become so high that there may be another deficit, and a greater deficit, threatening the drivers and supervisors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u99	Mr.Minister, according to my information, in the first quarter of 2016, the number of offences related to the use of the telephone in driving would be 27,675. In 2016, the total would be 110,000 offences, a slight decrease from 2015. Nevertheless, according to the IBSR spokesman, since the widespread use of smartphones, the use of telephones in driving has been steadily increasing. At a time when several awareness-raising campaigns are under way, one problem remains the difficulty of finding out the offence. Although several techniques have been considered by the police, such as riding a line of vehicles on a motorcycle during peak hours, control does not appear to be sufficient to prevent such behaviour and to ensure maximum safety for users. Minister, I am aware that it is complex to solve this problem, particularly because the infringement is difficult to see. Nevertheless, it seems useful to me to look at this situation, bearing in mind that many dangers may arise from this practice. Indeed, the use of the telephone on the steering wheel could lead to a later or even more abrupt braking. It is also estimated that the risk of an accident increases by 23 when a text message is sent. Minister, what steps are you planning to take to better prevent and control this dangerous practice and on what agenda? According to IBSR figures, young people would be more likely to use their gsm while driving. Do you intend to take specific measures for this audience? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u100	According to a study by the international consulting firm Alix Partner, in 2018, 78 million cars worldwide will be connected. Apart from autonomous cars, I am referring here to all the multimedia applications, social media, or navigation that are growing more and more in cars: Facebook, Snapchat, etc. If these, and others, are now installed on the smartphones of many drivers, they will increasingly be installed natively on the multimedia systems of connected cars. In both cases, there is concern about the impact on road safety. Indeed, all this develops an important lack of attention in relation to the primary mission of a driver, namely to drive the car. Even if the latest vehicles are equipped with technologies that allow drivers to keep their hands on the wheel, the brains and concentration are becoming more and more demanding. For example, after more than four decades of steady decline, road accidents in the United States experienced their largest increase in the last 50 years in 2015. It was before Trump arrived. And the figures for the first half of 2016 are far from happy, according to the U.S. Federal Road Safety Agency. In percentage terms, the increase (+7%) is the highest in 50 years. While the causes are likely to be multifactorial, insurance companies in the United States, which carefully monitor traffic accident factors, appear to be convinced that the increase in the use of electronic accessories during driving is the greatest cause of the increase in accidents. In Belgium, the phenomenon may not yet be as developed. However, two very recent studies conducted by the IBSR show the importance of this type of behaviour. According to the findings of the first study, Smart phones Smart drivers, 1 in 5 young people use their smartphone while driving. Similarly, one in 10 people interviewed uses their smartphone on the highway. In the second study, it is found that even by using a hands-free kit, a driver who calls at the wheel looks at road signs twice as much during his journey. It also pays much less attention to other road users. The findings of the second study show that embarking applications into a car-integrated system, even if it is easier to access them by voice recognition or motion technologies, is not a solution. Given that the number of uses of this type of application is constantly increasing and that the phenomenon is still in its infancy in Belgium, it seems to me urgent and important to take action to better control their use at the wheel. Minister, what steps do you intend to take to guide the use of apps via smartphone or on-board driving system? What are your levers of action? What are the possibilities of guiding vehicle design standards to frame the installation of certain CC applications related to driving comfort or occupant safety? Finally, does the IBSR have any figures on the consequences of this specific problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u101	Minister, in the first quarter of this year, there were 27,675 offences for using mobile phones while driving. According to the IBSR, the phenomenon is increasing with the widespread use of smartphones. A recent survey by the Institute shows that more than 8 out of 10 respondents use their mobile phones while driving. It is mainly young people under the age of 34 who are concerned: 23% of them use their smartphone at least once on each trip. This is more than for the 35-54-year-olds (20%) and the 55-year-olds and over (8%). In this study, Mr. Cheron, the IBSR recalls the danger of using the telephone while driving, as it also recalls the danger of drinking alcohol while driving. According to studies, the reaction time on the road increases by 20 to 40% when you phone without a free hand kit while driving. This leads, Mr. Cheron, to a later and more abrupt braking and an increase of 23% in the risk of an accident. This committee is quite exceptional: you ask a question and I answer you, no language of wood in relation to that. Minister, like Mr Cheron and Mr Calomne, what measures do you intend to put in place in the short and long term to counter the ever-increasing use of the telephone while driving? Are there any heavier fines for this act of infringement?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u102	Colleagues, in order to combat the use of gsm at the wheel, several levers can be operated by different actors. The first lever brings together awareness-raising and communication about the dangers of such a practice; since the sixth reform of the State of the Regions, it has been very effective. Secondly, to step up controls. I am currently discussing with my colleague from the Interior to take further steps to strengthen, in particular, the control of the use of gsm while driving. The aim is not to increase the amount of the fine, but to increase the number of checks. Thirdly, to improve vehicle technical standards at European and international level. The experts of the Mobility and Transport FPS participate actively in these meetings. Under my leadership, Belgium supports the introduction, as a standard in many vehicles, of technologies that have shown a positive impact on road safety, either because they continue to improve the fight against driving distraction or because they contribute to reducing its consequences. Fourthly, pending new standards being discussed, there are already private initiatives that are helping to curb the use of gsm while driving. For example, insurance companies already provide lower premiums for vehicles equipped with data event recorders, kinds of black boxes. They could extend the measure to vehicles that are equipped with a system blocking the gsm or certain applications when the vehicle is running. There are already systems that, through the contact keys, prevent the use of gsm when you start the vehicle; such systems are expected to multiply by 2018 and, as I have just said, I support initiatives at European level to speed up their implementation. It is neither my competence nor my will to prohibit all on-board applications that are not necessary for driving comfort or occupant safety. On the one hand, there is no legal basis other than compliance with the Road Traffic Code. International technical standards set minimum requirements to be met. Then the manufacturer or passenger is free to add new applications. They can also be very useful from the point of view of mobility. At the same time, a minimum of individual freedom must be respected. Rather, my role is to supervise the use of the driver. As I said before, awareness raising and sanctioning in combination can help to empower the use of smartphones or applications at the wheel without harming the freedom of other occupants. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the IBSR has different sources of information and data about driving distraction. In particular, I recommend that you consult the 2016 statistical report on traffic behaviour and adopt this good resolution to never use gsm when you are driving.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u103	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is indeed important to have this balance between awareness-raising and sanction, especially since control is particularly difficult. I note your willingness to strengthen it rather than increase the amount of the sanction. That's positive. But I stress the awareness and prevention aspect, particularly among young people. This is one of the keys to improving this aspect of road safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u104	Minister, thank you for your answer. I don't know if it's related to the subject, but this is a good answer. I'm not judging the minister, it's not my role. I only read the press, you know that. Trier of jokes, you've made a good argument about what's possible and what's not. Of course, as from 1 January, the Regions will be competent. I remember this article of the reform of the State, which has been the subject of much discussion. But on the other hand, you are leading an important societal debate on the sharing between what comes out of the freedom and the use of it while the technology is embedded in the initial - this is increasingly the case - and what is brought into the car. A smartphone is an on-board technology. This societal debate is going to be important. The United States is not necessarily a model, but it is a well-known factual situation. The figures are very worrying in terms of results for road safety. I ask you to be attentive to the future because connected cars are often presented as a source of progress. But what we see in the United States in terms of the consequences for road safety requires us to ask the right questions and find the right solutions – and I recognize that, according to your answer, you are contributing – with respect for each other and for freedom, but also for the freedom not to be the victim of an accident following the misuse of technology.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u105	Minister, I have heard your answer, in balance. Solemnly, I ask you to be very attentive to this problem because, in this case, the gsm kills!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u106	Madam Chair, Minister, the purpose of my question is on line 130a. I had asked your predecessor, Mrs Galant, a question about this Charleroi-Erquelinnes line which, at the time, had just been rehabilitated. In particular, I asked him whether a direct line between Charleroi-Sud and Paris via Maubeuge and Saint-Quentin could not be considered again, given that this line was rehabilitated to Erquelinnes and that it was therefore entirely electrified from Charleroi to Paris. It was necessary to look at a possible partnership with SNCF to extend the existing line which makes Paris-Maubuge (TER) until Charleroi. Ms Galant had told me that this possibility was under consideration and that SNCB was studying the different scenarios for new cross-border links. On 9 June, following a question asked to you by one of my colleagues, you indicated that the Thalys connecting Charleroi to Paris via Maubeuge would not see the light of day. In your opinion, this alternative results in a longer journey time for the traveller than if he or she passes via Brussels. In addition, SNCB does not have high-speed trainsets. Since this possibility is buried, I therefore come back to the alternative that I had proposed to your colleague Mrs Galant, who seemed to me the right one. In fact, previously, the 130a line made it possible to reach Paris in three hours from Charleroi. Today, if we follow your answer of going through Brussels, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Charleroi-Brussels route represents 55 minutes. The Charleroi-Sud-Brussels-Midi train arrives at its destination every 17 or 47 hours, while the Brussels-Midi-Paris connection can be taken every 13 or 43 hours. From then on, the commuters have to wait a little less than thirty minutes before having the correspondence Thalys for Paris. The journey takes one hour and twenty-two minutes. If we do the calculation, the commuters take two hours and forty-seven minutes from Charleroi and pay about 110 euros while the 130a line is cheaper. Since this is a Thalys between Brussels-Midi and Paris, the commuter has no interest in his train being late because he is obliged to take the Thalys he has booked, not another. However, on an extension from Maubeuge to Charleroi to Paris, there is no reserved place. So it's much easier. This means that a person who has to take another Thalys because, unfortunately, there has been a small delay – everyone knows that this never happens! – it entails additional costs for her. Minister, has your predecessor's study been completed? If so, could you provide us with the details? I'm not asking you to give them to me here. If you wish, you can send them to me in writing. Does this study refer to the partnership with SNCF and the potential costs of extending the line to Charleroi? If this study has been carried out and the results are conclusive, do you envisage extending the Paris-Maubeuge line to Charleroi, with an agreement with SNCF?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u107	Madam Chair, Mr.Massin, SNCB informed me that a study was conducted and presented to the SNCB Executive Committee on March 21, 2016. Seven service scenarios were studied. Taking account of the fact that these are documents belonging to a commercial service and not to public service missions, SNCB is not in favour of the detailed distribution of these documents. Be aware that they have not been communicated to me either, Mr. Massin. The study was carried out in good cooperation with SNCF in order to find out what was technically possible for both SNCB and SNCF in the form of a partnership or the execution of the service using their rolling stock. The SNCB study concludes that the scenario of a Paris-Maubuge-Charleroi relationship is technically not possible in the short term because neither SNCB nor SNCF has adequate certified equipment to ensure this relationship. A locomotive of 3,000 continuous volts, 25,000 alternative volts equipped with ERTMS and certified both on the Belgian network and on the French network, would be required. However, I have recently asked SNCB to examine the feasibility of a loop in Avesnois. By this I mean a service between Charleroi, Maubeuge, Aulnoye, Mons, La Louvière which would match the trains to Paris at the departure of Maubeuge and Aulnoye. The cost of this option has not yet been communicated to me since this request dates from a month ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u108	Minister, it is rather frustrating to be limited to what the SNCB tells you. Since these are commercial aspects, it does not transmit the study. It is a society governed by public law that must be held accountable. Since this is a planned partnership with SNCF, we will finally get the information more quickly by contacting SNCF! I am counting on you to request this study from SNCB so that we can receive it. According to the information that comes from the French, it's quite practical. There are already some drivers who can travel on the French and Belgian rails. However, we will have to adapt to security systems, I agree. There is probably an investment that needs to be made. The fact that it is impossible is an answer that is too short! You're talking about Aulnoye's loop. If you put it in place, it is clear that, coming from Mons or Charleroi, we have every interest in going directly to Brussels to take the Thalys! This will not be particularly fast, the service is not likely to be very important. You will barely have a train every hour and I am not at all sure of the attendance or the profitability! On the other hand, if you were to make this connection between Charleroi, Maubeuge and Paris, a retracement can be made from Namur, Mons and La Louvière sur Charleroi on this line which has been completely re-established in terms of electrification and works of art. It is therefore perfect since it is also a corridor for the passage of freight trains. You understand my frustration with that. You will allow me the expression: "I have the impression that the SNCB is rolling you in the flour"!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u109	Mr President, Minister, in my question I mentioned the advantages of a bicycle fee and cycling workers and employees, including less illness and better motivation. Moreover, the investment in bicycle infrastructure is tax deductible and interesting for the companies themselves. A bicycle fee is indeed not mandatory and can only be granted through sectoral negotiations, private collective bargaining and the like. In 2009 I asked a question about the bicycle fee at the Belgian Railways. In the meantime, I thought the problem had been solved, but I note that the bicycle fee is still not in force at the branches of the Belgian Railways. To be honest, I didn't know that. For what reason is that not yet in force? Have the various companies provided you with figures on the number of workers coming to work by bicycle, so that a budget calculation can be made of the cost if a bicycle fee is paid today? Is there a study to grant, for example, a bicycle fee in the framework of the last mile?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, HR Rail carried out a mobility survey in 2011 and 2014 in accordance with the legal obligations, which looked at the commuting habits of employees. The employment rate was only 27 % in 2011, while already more than 45% of staff participated in the 2014 survey. In both 2011 and 2014, 6% of the employees of the Belgian Railways used the bicycle as the main means of movement. The percentage of employees using the train as the main means of movement increased from 52% to more than 56%. The car's share dropped from 31 % to 30 %. Infrabel lets me know that 24 percent of Infrabel's employees use the bike to get from home to their main means of movement and that 15% of Infrabel's employees call on the bike to go from their main means of movement to work. Employees of the Belgian Railways are currently not entitled to a bicycle allowance for commuting. Nevertheless, the Belgian Railways have been pursuing a sustainable mobility policy for many years by making available to all employees a train ticket valid in the Benelux countries. The social protocol agreement of 2016-2018 provides for a modernisation of the policy on allowances, premiums and allowances. In this context, the introduction of a bicycle allowance for commuting could be examined. The allocation arrangements, including for the first and last miles and the possible cost of the measures, will be examined in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u111	I hope, Minister, that the figures used in the trade-union negotiations will be used to introduce the bicycle fee in order to achieve the modal shift, which we have discussed before.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u112	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Geerts converted 15052 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u113	Recently, the press echoed Belgocontrol's €97 million three-year investment programme. The aim of the programme is, inter alia, to move the current Belgocontrol navigation system operating on the basis of ground beacons to the new navigation system using satellite data. Can you give us more information on this investment programme? Does it include measures to enhance the safety of the sky?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, Belgocontrol has invested insufficiently in recent years because of financial difficulties. Following the adoption of a new financing system at the time of the conclusion of the third management contract in 2014, Belgocontrol has, since 2015, again had an investment capacity to modernise and make its equipment and systems reliable. To this end, the public company has launched an investment plan of around €97 million over the next three years. They will replace some end-of-life aids to air navigation (ILS and beacons) and upgrade ground-to-ground and ground-to-air communication systems. The plan also provides for the deployment of new air navigation technologies within the framework of the European programme for the modernisation of air navigation in Europe: the CESAR programme. It also provides for the development of new surveillance services at Walloon regional airports to improve aviation safety in the event of poor visibility. Finally, these investments will prepare for the modernisation of the Steenokkerzeel air traffic control centre by 2020-2025. This modernisation is necessary in order to be able to offer the new features required for the regulation of the Single European Sky. Ultimately, these investments will allow the deployment of a new technical architecture to ensure continuity of services and aviation safety in the event of technical failures. This new architecture is part of Belgocontrol's strategy to improve service continuity. A first part of this strategy has already been implemented in 2016 to enable airports to continue their operations in the event of a failure of the Steenokkerzeel control centre.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u115	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u116	From the 2018 budget year onwards, the planned end of the special pension schemes for SNCB rolling staff will be implemented. This means that SNCB's rolling staff, who are now eligible for pension at the age of 55, will be progressively deferred to 63 years by 2030. Mr. Minister, railway work is a difficult job in several areas, including schedule, working conditions and workspace. Even if some of the workers are likely to be able to take up their pension before 2030 in the event of a long career or recognition of penitibility, what do you really think of this decision to postpone the pension of these workers to 63 years? If you feel that it is not fair, do you consider ways to alleviate career ends, such as conversions to administrative, logistical or maintenance functions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u117	Minister, your colleague Minister of Pensions has announced the raising of the pension age for railway workers. It will be increased from 55 to 57 years in 2018, then increased from six months a year to 63 years in 2030, increasing career time from a minimum of 30 years to 42 years in 2030. Among other arguments, the trade unionists raised their fears, particularly in the context of the papy boom, which will concern SNCB staff as well as other sectors of the economy, to see too few candidates apply for positions which, according to the trade union organisations, would have become too unattractive as a result of this pension reform. Minister, can you provide us with information on the evolution of the retirement of railway workers in the years to come? What impact will the planned reform have on the number of posts to be filled in relation to the number of persons to be recruited under the current law? Has the announcement of the reform led to an increase in pension claims among the staff concerned? What corrective actions has this already led to with regard to recruitment, if proven? Can you inform us about the trades promotion campaign and the SNCB recruitment campaign? Do any interested persons mention this aspect at the meetings held? Do they also raise concerns about increased fatigue and less vigilance associated with a later retirement from the pension? What can you tell us about this risk raised by the unions? Is there a negative or positive change in the number of candidates for the positions proposed by the recruitment campaign, or is the situation unchanged, following the announcement of the reform? Can you tell us whether these changes in the pension age will complicate the recruitment of the staff in question? Thank you for your answers to my many questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u118	Minister, I would like to join in on this. I had tabled my question in writing, but since a number of oral questions had also been tabled, I added my own. I refer to the pension reform and I also refer to the staff age pyramid. I also refer to the challenge of driving additional train kilometres from the end of 2017. These three elements mean that a lot of new staff will have to be recruited in the coming year. It is an important challenge to realise these elements effectively. Minister, I have a lot of specific questions. Is there any more clarity about the pension reform? Doesn't it have an impact on the number of people who may soon be using their rights, even though they didn't intend to, and will retire earlier than planned? How many train drivers and train escorts does SNCB currently need to work comfortably? I would have liked to have a split between French and Dutch speakers. Is there currently a shortage of train drivers, on the one hand, and train drivers, on the other? If so, how much is the deficit? What is the division between French and Dutch speakers? Is the deficit already causing operational problems today? Is it true that train drivers, for example, are no longer able to take their leave or compensation days? How much are we talking about? How many train drivers and train escorts are expected to retire before the end of 2017? Can this be divided into Dutch speakers and French speakers? How many train drivers will SNCB have to recruit by the end of 2017 to replace, on the one hand, the number of pensioners and, on the other hand, to cover the additional train kilometres of the new transport plan? Also before that I liked to have a split. How many train escorts will SNCB have to recruit by the end of 2017? Finally, what measures does SNCB intend to take to recruit additional train drivers and train escorts?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to point out that it is the rolling staff, i.e. mainly train drivers and attendants who have seen their pension plans adapted. The other railway workers were already under another regime. SNCB informs me that, since the announcement of the reform, there has been a slight increase in pension claims among rolling staff. However, the recent guarantees provided by the Minister of Pensions in respect of pensions and acquired rights have been brought to the attention of the staff concerned and should reassure him of his rights. The recruitment quotas for all railway trades for 2016 and 2017 take account of this phenomenon to the extent of the budgetary possibilities of the undertakings concerned. HR Rail organises actions to attract as many candidates as possible to the rail industry. [[As such, she organizes dozens of jobs days, participates in dozens of job fairs, organizes a lot of school visits and brings a large number of students to visit the workshops of SNCB and Infrabel, sets up competitions, is present in social media (LinkedIn, Facebook, etc.). as well as in the classical media (on television and in cinemas in Flanders), launches actions such as Refer a friend, launched in early 2016, in collaboration with the Communications services of SNCB and Infrabel, a brand new image campaign "Hier to your dream, today your job", updates its website dedicated to recruitment (www.lescheminsdefer Engres.be), developed a simulator of train and technical train used during the job events and available on the website as an Android and IOS app, participates in various training projects with the VDAB and FOREM, organized various summer actions in the stations to raise awareness of the railway trades, developed actions in favour of diversity, launched the filming of certain trains in favor of its website and its recruitment, will organize the job train at the beginning of 2017.]] So far, the candidates met are mainly motivated by the advantages of the trades offered by the railways. At present, the elements relating to the end of a career are little mentioned by candidates who wish to embark on a professional career within the railways. It seems premature to answer the question on the risk raised by trade unions. Railways do not have figures in one direction or another. So the correction invites me not to provide you with more elements at this level. Nevertheless, I am aware of the difficulties inherent in the profession, for example, as a driver, and I will ensure that these are taken into account in the work on penitibility. The railways are seeing a decrease in the number of visits to the website, but they are experiencing an increase in the number of applications submitted to the website. The railways are aware that candidates applying for a job do so primarily for the content of the job itself, but also, among other things, for the benefits of a stable statutory career. The main difficulty of recruitment is mainly related to the difference between the labour market in Flanders and Wallonia. As far as the figures requested are concerned, I can tell you the following. There are currently 2 413 operational train escorts, of which 1 390 Dutch speakers and 1 105 French speakers, and 2 974 operational train drivers, of which 1 649 Dutch speakers and 1 327 French speakers. To work comfortably, 2 466 operational train escorts are needed, including 1 351 Dutch speakers and 1 115 French speakers, and 2 893 operational train drivers, including 1 615 Dutch speakers and 1 278 French speakers. There is therefore currently a shortage of some forty Dutch train drivers. There are currently no operational problems due to staff shortages and leave can still be granted. 174 train escorts will retire before the end of 2017, including 75 Dutch speakers and 99 French speakers, and 272 train drivers, of which 155 Dutch speakers and 170 French speakers. SNCB should recruit 472 train drivers, of which 252 Dutch speakers and 220 French speakers, and 312 train escorts, of which 187 Dutch speakers and 125 French speakers, to replace pensioners and to cover the additional train kilometres of the new transport plan by the end of 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u120	Mr President, I see that, finally, the Centre region is getting jobs that it deserves. I salute your presidency, Mr Flahaux. Minister, we recently learned from the press that SNCB had set up a customer testing and consulting centre, the Customer Experience Lab. The aim is to analyse customers' wishes and evaluate SNCB's new products and services. Since mid-July, approximately 40 clients have been consulted at the Customer Experience Lab of the public company. Can you give us more information about this customer testing and consultation centre? When can we obtain the first results of this experiment?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u121	Minister, you have stated your willingness to put the client at the centre of SNCB's action. With a view to improving the supply and adapting to the changing needs of the customer, SNCB set up a Customer Experience Lab in the basement of SNCB's headquarters in July in order to involve its customers in the development of its products. Groups, drawn from a panel of 4,000 volunteers who have shown up to participate in the experiment, have access to a room that contains an automaton, a false window, a PC, tablets with visual analysis software to study the reading of web pages by panel members. These groups work to improve the company's services and co-create new SNCB products, such as the ergonomics of the website, the use of car parks, the content and layout of internet tickets, in order to make them more practical and playful as well. Minister, soon six months after the implementation of this tool, what feedback do you have from SNCB users on the panel? What perception do SNCB professionals, once accustomed to working in a vacuum, have of experience, whose reality they can see in situ thanks to a tonless mirror that looks at the laboratory? At the rate of one to two panels per month, what are the fields of the company's multiple practices that have been or will be addressed? In what timeframe will the aspects studied by the various panels have a concrete impact on SNCB's policy and its various tools at the service of the customer? When will it be possible to have a situation assessment of these co-productions, on the part of both railway staff and users? Finally, is this laboratory intended to become a permanent tool for testing, improving and adapting the evolution of the railway tool?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the digital revolution, customers no longer approach SNCB's service products in the same way as they did ten years ago. Clients expect businesses to be able to respond more easily and quickly to their business and information needs. SNCB informs me that with this tool it wanted to anticipate these expectations. To find out what the customer wants, SNCB has decided to involve him in a transparent way in the development and evaluation of new services. By working with its clients, SNCB intends to place them at the centre of its concerns. Thanks to this new Customer Test Center, the SNCB has the ideal tools to engage in dialogue with its customers and to reflect with them on the improvements in the service offered. Through focus groups and individual interviews, the SNCB investigates customers' expectations and feedback in an objective way, starting with the development phase, the testing and evaluation of new services and products. To do this, SNCB can draw on a large database of clients who wish to participate in the analysis. The existing sales and information channels have also been magnified, as the laboratory is equipped with both an operational window and a sales machine. Thus, via an eye tracking device, the SNCB tests how to optimally arrange layout and information on a screen or ticket. The device follows the movement of the eyes and clearly shows where the customer is paying attention. Thanks to this method, adaptations to the automaton have already been made to increase its ease of use. SNCB also informs me that customer feedback is very positive. They appreciate being listened to and that their input is really taken into account. This is particularly the case for the online home print ticket for which a customer, during the second session, was able to find that the version had been adapted according to his own remarks. This experience allows SNCB employees who need to make the changes, to better understand customers' wishes, requests and opinions. The Customer Experience Lab is a new step in the transformation into a customer-conscious organization. The following topics were discussed: - in July, the new online home print ticket; - in August, the simplification of transport conditions; - still in August, the website user test, with emphasis on the travel planner, schedules and ticket purchase; - in September, the car parks at the railway stations; - in October, the new online home ticket, the presentation of the adapted project after consulting the July target group; - in November, the test of the new designs of the website; - and in December, the review with a view to improving the online contact form. The various panels will have an effect on SNCB policy based on the findings of the studies. The more important the action will be, the more priority will be given to the impact in the timing and/or the means required. Thus, the adaptation of the first designs of the website has already taken place during the week following the survey. The actual implementation of these innovations in IT systems will take place in the second half of 2017. Evaluation of these co-productions is part of a standard process. Each action taken as a result of such an investigation will also be evaluated thereafter. Finally, SNCB does want to invest in this process in order to be able to carry out these surveys on an ongoing basis in order to improve and adapt its multiple practices as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u123	Minister, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u124	I'll do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u125	Mr President, you will notice that this Parliament is currently composed of three-fifths of the people from the Central Region and we have the Presidency.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u126	What are we gonna do with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u127	We're gonna make it! Imagine: 3/5th, we'd have a line with trains and... beautiful! We wouldn't even stop there. In 2016, from January to July, there were 31,816 trains abolished on the Belgian rail network as a whole. It's almost 10,000 more trains off than in the entire year 2015. Minister, can you give us the main reasons for this increase in the number of trains abolished in the first half of 2016? As much as last year, you told me that there were a lot of strikes in 2015... In 2016, there were fewer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u128	Mr President, my colleague, in 2015, from January to July, there were 13,781 trains abolished on the Belgian rail network as a whole. In 2016, there were 31 816 deleted on the entire rail network. The main reasons for this increase in 2016 are due to the explosion of social actions and the consequences of the attacks in Brussels. We have the detailed figure. These events are mentioned below with the number of trains deleted. From 5 January to 8 January, strike announced; 5,525 trains abolished in Wallonia; only in Wallonia. From 21 to 31 March: security measures at the request of the police following the terrorist attacks; 1,132 trains. From 25 to 30 May, spontaneous strike: 8,301 trains abolished. From 30 to 31 May, social action announced: 2,684 trains abolished. From 1 to 7 June, spontaneous strike: 4,463 trains abolished throughout the network. From 23 to 25 June, national strike announced: 997 trains abolished throughout the SNCB network. A total of 23,302 trains were abolished as a result of these various events.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u129	Thank you, Minister, for that clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u130	Minister, SNCB intends to invest €75 million in a new data center, a data storage centre. A call for tenders has been launched. Several companies are likely to respond, such as Siemens, NRB or Win. Minister, can you give us more information on the procedure for awarding the contract? At what time, do you think you can attribute it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u131	Mr Devin, SNCB informs me that it has indeed initiated a procedure for data centre services. This procurement was published at Belgian and European level with publication in the Bulletin of invitations to tender of 7 August 2015 and in the Official Journal of the European Communities of 12 August 2015. The deadline for submission of applications was September 18, 2015. As the procedure is in progress, SNCB cannot communicate details at the risk of breaching the confidentiality rules applicable to this type of market. However, we can point out that the evaluation of offers is under way. This is a technically complex and highly important issue for SNCB, both financially and operationally. For this reason, the award is certainly not expected until mid-2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u132	Mr President, I have heard very well the Minister's answer and thank him for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u133	Mr President, Minister, the purpose of the minimum service would be to ensure the continuity of public service during strikes. You have presented four models that are under consideration in trade union bodies. There are two constants in these four models: the system of census of workers and strikers and the severe penalties provided for persons who have replied that they would come to work but who would not appear on the day of the strike. Minister, can you give us more information on the sanctions envisaged against workers who would not appear on the day of the strike despite having responded in advance that they would come to work? During the strike on 24 June, non-gravist workers were unable to go to their place of work because of a strike movement. Will these non-gravist workers also be penalized if they fail to reach their workplace on the day of a strike? How will you determine those who will be penalized because they have not responded to the call of those who are prevented against their will?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u134	Mr President, I would like to point out that every rail strike is an action of workers against other workers. This must be borne in mind as this justifies the successful establishment of a guaranteed service to protect workers. As I have indicated, it is for the time being up to companies to develop, in consultation with trade union organisations, a practical formula for what is called the guaranteed service. The models proposed are not those of the previous minister or minister. These are the models for which you had hearings at the end of June and the beginning of July. These models are based on the assumption that those who have presented themselves as volunteers will also make every effort to be present at their work, under the penalty of being considered illegally absent. The provision of appropriate disciplinary sanctions for these cases of illegal absences is part of what I mean by "developing a practical formula". From a concrete point of view, however, it will always be up to the administrative authority to assess and justify the imposition of disciplinary sanctions for unlawful absence, including in the context of strike actions. It would therefore be premature for me already to propose a concrete disciplinary sanction for the cases you are referring to.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u135	[[Mr President, I have heard the Minister's reply on this sensitive issue.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u136	Mr. Chairman, Minister, three train attendants are attacked every day at their workplace. More than 1,000 cases of physical and verbal violence are recorded each year; 70 per cent of these attacks occur when the transport document is checked. Of the 1,039 attacks reported by SNCB, there were 181 cases of assault, 260 cases of mild violence, 403 threats and 195 insults. Minister, what is in place to combat and prevent these acts of violence against train attendants?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u137	Mr Devin, SNCB informs me that attacks on staff are one of its top priorities. An anti-aggression master plan has been put in place proposing some 50 measures aimed both at drastically reducing the risk of aggression and at promoting the care of the victim staff. This plan is regularly monitored, evaluated and adapted in the framework of a joint steering group composed of a delegation from SNCB and representatives of recognised trade union organisations. It defines the strategies to be implemented. SNCB has also conducted extensive surveys of its staff to obtain a more accurate picture of the extent of the phenomenon and its impact. Assault-related figures are monitored on a daily basis. The measures resulting from the masterplan are discussed in joint working groups. Finally, SNCB collaborates intensively with the police services, in particular in the framework of its cooperation agreements with local authorities on safety in and around railway stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u138	Minister, thank you. I really encourage you to do all these tasks. In my view, particular attention should be paid to this issue of violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u139	Minister, your colleague, the Minister of Justice, Koen Geens, has announced that he has prepared a project that is making significant changes to road legislation. One of its amendments includes the creation of a new carrefour bank to better track recidivism and more severe penalties for offences. For example, the project provides that drivers who fail to comply with the Highway Traffic Code will lose their standard driver's licence for six hours instead of two or three hours, as is the case today. Minister, can you give us more detailed information on the measures provided for in this proposed amendment to road legislation? Was the IBSR involved in the formation of this project? What will be the concrete sanctions against a repeat offender? What types of information will contain the new carrefour bank? How will it work?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u140	Colleagues, the proposal for a draft bill is currently the subject of consultation meetings between the Justice and Mobility offices. As mentioned in my policy note, this project aims, among other things, to increase penalties for driving licence and flight offences, a wider application of anti-start ethylotest and increased liability for license holders in connection with escape offences. This bill is expected to be tabled in Parliament in 2017. It's not about a new carrefour bank. The bank-carrefour des licensures de conduite, created by the Law of 14 April 2011 on various provisions, is the bank-carrefour Mercurius, referred to in the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u141	Mr Minister, I thank you for the clarifications and the President for the good conduct of this meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u142	Minister, this question concerns the CEO of SNCB. I had already asked you the same question in October, when the appointment was normally scheduled. Today, almost two months later, we are still awaiting the appointment of this CEO. Why the delay? The press reports that objective criteria would be applied. A person's name is circulating. She would clearly be at the top of the short list that comes out. But, obviously, there are oppositions within the majority towards this person. Why the delay? Who or what political forces are responsible for this delay? It is a matter of concern to see that this procedure is so slow. Is this appointment related to other appointments, such as within the SNCB or Infrabel? For you, is the decision made? Was the ideal candidate or was the ideal candidate found? These are the questions that I am asking myself, Minister, and to which I would like to have a frank and open answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u143	Although we have already talked about this yesterday in the Committee on Infrastructure, the Minister will be happy to respond again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u144	Mr Van Hees, the recruitment of the CEO of SNCB is a matter that I took over as soon as I received the mandate of the Kern specifying the method. Several methods were possible. It was the objective of choice that was pursued by the designation of a lead hunter after a public procurement procedure. In a record time of two months, during the great holidays, as the Kern asked me, different stages were taken. First of all, to avoid the pitfalls that have been known in the past, a law firm was selected to accompany the choice of the head hunter's office. Secondly, we recruited a lead hunter after a consultation, in which seven had been consulted. Third, the mission itself was carried out in the traditional stages of research, namely the identification of potential candidates, the selection of the most suitable candidates for the function, and the presentation of the best profiles for the function as a complete file. We are talking here about the four candidates selected in the short list. As I told you yesterday, I learned from the press the night before that one of the candidates was no longer there. So we end up with a list of three names. The case is currently before Kern and a decision will be taken shortly. As I have already indicated, Kern will take advantage of this redesign to finally put in place the regional administrators expected for many years and one or a president of Infrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u145	Mr Minister, I thank you for this complete history of the procedure, but it is a little light about the delay that is being made. That was the meaning of my question. On this delay and the causes of this delay, I get no answer. If Kern is seized of the case, it must be concluded that political difficulties within the majority prevent a conclusion from being reached. You tell us that in record time, the whole procedure has been put in place. This increases the question about the delay after this procedure carried out in record time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u146	Mr Gilkinet, since your questions are so close, I imagine you will synthesize them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u147	Yes, Mr. Chairman, because the second one is an update of the first one. Minister, I would like to ask you about access to the waiting room at Ciney Station and the future of Ciney Station. Just now, I told you about your priority of driving trains, but a minimum quality of reception is also needed for commuters in terms of safety and user-friendliness. I fear, however, that it will no longer be guaranteed. Commuters embarking or disembarking at Ciney station recently discovered, via a poster, that the station lobby would now be closed at 8:00 p.m. during the week and at 8:30 p.m. on the weekend. At a time when commuters on line 162 are subject to recurring delays, SNCB's decision is even more incomprehensible. One can think of students who join the university cities on Sunday night and who will no longer be able to wait for their train in the lobby. Infrabel has thus built an absolutely unsightly wooden box. It is also possible to mention the mechanical stairs which are no longer in operation and which, therefore, hinder everyone's access to the station. Nearly a year ago, I asked you about the deterioration of the service at this important station in Wallonia, used on average daily by nearly 2,000 commuters (1,804 according to 2014 figures). As far as the old buffet is concerned, you said that SNCB was planning to set up a so-called "mixed" operation, allowing a horeca activity to be combined with the sale of press. Since that reply, both the cafeteria and the old press point have been empty. You also announced the creation of a second 88-seat parking lot. It has indeed come into being, but it is far from being finalized. The conditions there are very precarious, not to mention security. When asked at Ma TV's microphone (local television) on November 30, you made a surprising announcement. Indeed, you mentioned "a master plan to re-design both the parking areas around Ciney station and the point where the no-lost room and the station will be located", stating that a new station would be "decalated from 200 to 300 meters to Namur". At no time has such a hypothesis been discussed so far and, a fortiori, presented to the municipal council of Ciney. Minister, do you confirm the closure of the Ciney train station lobby at the same time as the counters? Why did SNCB make this decision? What is the expected economy? What consultation was held with the City of Ciney? What solutions will be implemented to maintain the comfort of commuters and their safety, especially in winter, and while delays are very important, unfortunately leading them to wait for their train? Can you tell me if a decision has been made regarding the resumption of a horeca-type activity and the distribution of press at Ciney station? Can you tell me how soon the parking lot located in the extension of the bus station will be finalized? Has SNCB planned to repair out-of-service escalators for some time? Can you tell us why SNCB is considering moving Ciney Station? At what cost is such a project being evaluated? Has the latter been the subject of consultation with local authorities? What decision did it reach? What justifies the construction of a new station? On what land, if any, would it be built and for what cost? In what calendar? What would be the characteristics in terms of welcoming commuters? Where appropriate, what will be put in place, in the meantime, to ensure the quality of reception, safety and comfort? Here are my questions about Ciney station.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u148	I imagine that the minister is particularly familiar with this regional issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u149	Mr President, the SNCB informs me that the hours of access to the Ciney waiting room will indeed be aligned with the opening hours of the windows. For operational reasons, this measure will apply as of Thursday, 15 December. Indeed, the staff of the signal booth, which managed the opening and closing of the no-lost room, will no longer be present at the station. This task will therefore be carried out temporarily by a private security company before eventually being passed on to the staff serving the counter. This method of work is applicable in all stations of the same category of more than 10,000 passengers per week. The City of Ciney was informed of this change at a meeting held in October 2016. In order to allow customers access to the lane corridor outside the opening hours of the station, a night lock is currently being constructed. As regards the concession in the former buffet, the successful candidate for the latter's take-over failed to comply with the contract sent to him by SNCB, which therefore continues to pursue the market. No additional repairs are planned in the short term for the parking lot. Indeed, the project of the new station planned for 2019-2020 is likely to see the construction of a two-storey car park at this place. The SNCB therefore wishes to limit the cost of finishing the current car park because the escalator concerned is irreparable. Infrabel also plans to move the wharfs and build new access to the wharfs in 2019-2020. Infrabel must carry out important work as part of the modernization of Axis 3. Ciney station will be heavily impacted. The wharfs will be more than 150 metres away to Namur. The station will therefore have to be centered in relation to the future wharfs and a new gateway to the wharfs and parking. The total budget is €6 million, including the passenger building, car parks and the bridge. These charges will be divided between Infrabel and SNCB. Local authorities have been consulted, as in any such project. The new station should be built on the ground between the current bus station and the new car park built inside the road curve. The new building would be adjacent to the nearby parking lot and would provide access to the future bridge, to be built next to the new bridge. This construction will meet the needs of travellers and will be fully accessible to PMRs. SNCB reports that in the meantime, interim solutions will be found where appropriate, but that it will seek to minimize customer inconvenience. With regard to access to the no-lose room, apart from the presence of a counterman, following contacts I had with both the SNCB and the mayor, we envisage the placement of electric spoils, which automatically open, at one hour to be agreed in the morning, very early, before the first passengers need to enter the no-lost room and will be closed after the arrival of the last train at around 10:30 p.m. or 11:00 p.m. The police will check regularly to see that everything is going well in the no-lost room. It is this proposal that we are putting on the table today and that we want to implement quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u150	The latter is essential. The last train stopping at Jemelle must stop at Ciney station at 11:30 p.m. Is this a project or a firm commitment?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u151	This is an agreed solution with the City of Ciney. We await the return of SNCB on the date of its placement. This solution has already been achieved at other stations; it gives satisfaction when it comes to stations located near the city centre, in places still relatively inhabited, which is the case there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u152	(...) and other positive positions that were taken by the Municipal Council of Ciney. It is just unimaginable to leave outside or in poorly lit corridors, open to any wind, travellers frequenting such an important station. In my view, SNCB must provide all its travellers with accommodation conditions that are not necessarily expensive, but that are simply comfortable and secure. The closure of this station from tomorrow is a real problem. I expect the solution you have just suggested to be implemented as quickly as possible. We are in the middle of winter and it is now that it is necessary. I also take note of the medium-term projects, for 2019-2020, aimed at the total modification of the station's configuration. I am already insisting on the need for these famous temporary solutions, which must allow travellers waiting to live their lives as commuters in suitable conditions. At Ciney, these conditions are, for the time being, at the limit of the acceptable. Yet you tell us that the temporary parking will not be arranged. You should go there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u153	I've been there several times, Mr. Gilkinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u154	You could then find that these are not acceptable reception conditions for a public railway undertaking.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u155	Minister, just a few days ago, a plane departing from Zaventem to Alicante had to postpone its departure for several hours due to disturbances caused by 41 drunken passengers at the time of take-off. The commanding officer, seeing his calls calmly without effect, having even received threats, was forced to return to the boarding gate to evacuate the troublemakers. The delay caused forced the replacement of the crew, resulting in delays and disruptions in the organization of the service. Mr Minister, while there have been no complaints filed, no arrests by law enforcement officials, it should be noted, however, that this kind of problem is increasingly happening on a regular basis, making it at best difficult for staff to fly and delay passengers, at worst, at risk, when it happens in flight and ends in fights. Minister, can you tell us how these kinds of incidents have evolved? Is it related to the zero-rating of alcohols in the free shop or duty free area, as well as to the fact that it is not possible, on the other hand, to board in the cabin with liquids, which causes some travellers to consume the alcohol they have just bought quickly and excessively? How can this be addressed? Is it necessary and possible, above all, to check the alcohol levels of certain passengers prior to boarding? This would involve law enforcement officers who are already in high demand for security at airports. Can staff assigned to boarding be empowered to carry out these checks or to ask passengers showing signs of drunkenness to remain on the side, while airport security officers come to carry out the necessary checks? Is it necessary and especially possible to limit the amount of alcohol sold per passenger in shops, knowing that travellers can go to several shops to make their purchases? This measure would also penalise travellers who make their purchases without drinking these drinks in the moment. It would also affect the commercial activity of the airport's shops, an activity that has already been affected by the aftermath of the attacks in March 2016. Should troublemakers be threatened for a certain period of time? Finally - I would like to remind you that at the beginning the question was asked to Deputy Prime Minister Jambon but it was recycled to the Minister of Mobility - how do you intend to deal with this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u156	Mr President, in the jargon of air transport, unruly passengers are called turbulent passengers! Their actions include acts of turbulence, refusal to comply with flight attendants, verbal or physical assaults, sexual threats or harassment. Passengers in a state of alcohol impregnation are counted with other turbulent passengers. The use of narcotics or alcohol prior to departure or frustration with the ban on smoking or using an electronic device are all reasons for passengers to justify their behaviour. The 1963 Tokyo Convention provides that only the authorities of the State, where the aircraft carrying the passenger at fault was registered, have jurisdiction. In 2014, the OASI submitted a protocol called the Montreal Protocol, amending this convention, which extends compulsory jurisdiction to the landing state. In addition to clarifying the definition of unacceptable behaviour (threats, physical attacks, refusal to comply with security measures) and filling several loopholes in the law that would allow the wrongdoers to escape justice, the Montreal Protocol proposes ways to compensate for the often significant costs associated with such measures. Belgium has not yet ratified this Protocol. In 2015, 136 cases of turbulent passengers were recorded and for the year 2016 until August 31, 72 cases, a decrease of the order of 20%. In the light of recent events, the Directorate-General for Air Transport will analyse the various means it could use to avoid or at least limit such incidents, including possible passenger-specific communication, in collaboration with airports and airlines. Airline personnel may already refuse to board persons at risk of flight safety, including those showing signs of intoxication. In the course of flight, the pilot is a master on board and is responsible for the safety of the flight and may, as such, impose all necessary measures as the circumstances require. The solutions put forward by the honourable Member, Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, are conceivable under the constraints which he himself cites. Sanctions are already provided for this type of behaviour: there does not seem to be a need to add new ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u157	Minister, I have no further comments to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u158	Minister, you pointed out just now the number of human incidents that sometimes cause an accumulation of delays. On 17 August, one of my fellow citizens died by throwing himself from a bridge under a train in H annoyed. It is obviously a horrible tragedy, especially for a young man with so many prospects for the future and so much kindness in him. For the family and loved ones, even if it is a voluntary act, it is always an absolute tragedy. When such a tragedy occurs, SNCB usually requests, at the earliest one month after the event, a letter to repair the costs incurred in terms of the personnel involved and the repair of the equipment. In fact, the purpose of the mail is to request the insurer's contact information in order to cause civil liability to be exercised, if the deceased had subscribed to one. If this is not the case, SNCB addresses the notary responsible for settling the estate. If the latter cannot bear the cost of claiming compensation, SNCB abandons the claim. Infrabel, which mobilizes only staff costs, usually does not claim compensation and, if it does, it is only if insurance exists. There is also some flexibility in how SNCB processes these files. To the point that if there is no response from the family, SNCB closes the files by classifying them as non-recoverable amounts. Minister, except in exceptional cases, the amount generally requested is between EUR 3 000 and EUR 5 000. Can you tell us exactly what this amount is? If this is essentially a wage cost, is it not possible to proceed as Infrabel does, by not asking for anything or by reducing the demand for material repairs? It is true that while each case amounts to only EUR 3 000 to EUR 5 000, the total amount, according to SNCB, amounts to EUR 2 million per year. The procedure for requesting reimbursement of costs appears to be getting tougher. Is that really the case? Is this linked to SNCB's budgetary policy? What direction do you intend to give to the treatment of this issue, which, if it is of real financial interest to SNCB, adds material concern to the suffering of the deceased's family?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u159	Mr Flahaux, the SNCB informs me that its policy of recovering the harm suffered in relation to suicide has not been tightened. Each file is reviewed on a case-by-case basis with respect for bereaved families. I invite you to read the answers of my predecessor to Oral Question No 662 and Question No 865. The injury situation of Infrabel and SNCB is not comparable. Indeed, as it is pointed out, Infrabel bears the costs of the staff who intervene on the spot to manage the situation. The case of SNCB is quite different and the damage suffered may vary depending on the following factors: - Did the accident occur in rush hour or late in the evening? - did the accident occur on a particularly busy track such as the North-Midi junction or on a track where only one train runs every two hours? - did the accident cause damage to the rolling stock? - How long did the prosecutor stop the train? - was it possible to evacuate passengers directly or was it necessary to wait for an evacuation train? - Did buses and taxis have to be ordered to take travellers to their destination? In the most important cases, the following will be taken into account: repair of rolling stock; trains affected by the disturbance of traffic and hence the minutes of delay recorded, which give rise to a real cost; alternative transport bills (bus, train or taxi); staff costs exempt from normal work to intervene in an emergency; psychological support to the driver and possible replacement. As far as SNCB is concerned, therefore, the wage cost represents only a small part of the costs incurred.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u160	Thank you for all this clarification, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u161	Mr Minister, Ryanair occupies an important place in Belgian and European air navigation. The positions of his boss Michael O的Leary therefore raise a major interest in the future of air transport and airports. It is well known that he likes to stir up ideas, but Mr. O的Leary, at a recent conference, has put forward the idea, in the near future, within ten years, of the free allocation of a large part of the seats offered on flights. This free of charge would be the result of a shift in airport policy, which, based on strong traffic growth, and to boost traffic growth in their commercial areas, would lower airport taxes, even up to paying the airlines to bring as many passengers as possible into their terminals, thereby increasing traffic and thereby the turnover and fees that shops will pay to airports. This surprising announcement, which in fact concerns mainly medium-sized airports used by Ryanair, while attractive to travellers, seems unrealistic to many experts who recall that the taxes levied by airports are mainly used to cover operational costs and infrastructure investments. The only commercial revenue from duty free would therefore not be sufficient to finance both the services offered by airports and airlines for the full cost of passengers, except that shops are part of aggressive trade policies, which could put them in difficulty. Minister, are these statements echoed by other airline managers? Does the air forward-looking services indicate a possible change in this direction over time? Has the increase in traffic already had an impact on the amount of airport taxes in the direction of a structural decline? Have the airports that have reduced their taxes done so as a result of the increase in revenues from the increase in the number of shops? Beyond Ryanair's constant willingness to lower airport taxes, do you think Mr O'Leary's statements are realistic?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u162	Mr President, to our knowledge, Mr O'Leary's statements are not repeated by other leaders. In recent years, airlines' representative organisations have put increased pressure on them to reduce airport fares. However, these requests do not go so far as the abolition of tariffs. It is important for an airport to be able to offer competitive fares while preserving its ability to finance its obligations, particularly in terms of infrastructure and operational cost capacity independently. Foresight services in the field of air transport do not indicate any possible changes in this direction. The purpose of airport charges is to finance all infrastructure and operational costs. Admittedly, some regional airports that receive subsidies to finance these costs in whole or in part may, therefore, offer lower rates. However, these situations do not fall within the normal market in which an airport operates independently and must, by definition, incorporate the cost base into its tariffs. Airport pricing is part of a European and national regulation that clearly describes how fares should be set. The airport cost model is similar to that of any infrastructure, i.e. it evolves in increments. For a given infrastructure with a given capacity, costs are largely fixed, in that they do not vary in proportion to the use of the infrastructure. On the other hand, as soon as capacity is insufficient and infrastructure needs to be increased, this requires significant investment. Therefore, the increase in traffic may have the effect of reducing the unit cost, but this is only true when the infrastructure capacity is not to be resized. In Europe, few airports reduce the amount of taxes due to an increase in passenger traffic. It is rather the opposite that happens, as in Frankfurt and Charles de Gaulle in France. Some European airports – Nice and Zurich – have reduced their airport taxes by a few percent and conditionally, too recently to measure their impact, but with the aim of making their site more attractive. In Strasbourg, a 40% reduction in local authority-funded charges was decided in 2012-2013 and reached 60% in 2014, from 12 euros to 5 euros, but only led to a 10% increase in the number of passengers, leaving the airport very in deficit. Airports that have reduced their taxes have not done so due to an increase in revenues as a result of increased shopping. In general, there is a need to clearly distinguish between regulated airport activities and commercial activities. In addition, the level of aeronautical revenues is regulated, limited and controlled by an independent regulator. This applies to Brussels Airport, which is regulated on the basis of European regulations. In the current state of legislation, the proposals that have been made do not appear to be capable of being implemented. An unsubsidized airport needs airport revenues to finance investments and operational costs. They are necessary to ensure the continuity of the proper management of an airport.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u163	Minister, thank you. I fully share your analysis and therefore have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u164	Mr President, Minister, until recently the Dinant station was accessible to people with reduced mobility and the agents present on the site were happy to help them cross the tracks. It appears that SNCB has decided to reduce the human presence at the Dinant station site, with very serious consequences for the quality of reception of travellers and their safety. A particularly steep and unsightly temporary metal bridge has been built. The temporary bridge set up is not practical for older people, strollers or users carrying heavy luggage, such as students of the Belle-Vue Institute directly near the station. Persons with reduced mobility will now have to seek assistance from SNCB 48 hours prior to their travel. The commuters in the more rural areas, already faced with significant delays and longer journey times, are further reduced in comfort and safety. This is a bad signal, while the use of public transport should be encouraged. Minister, do you confirm that the hall at Dinant Station is closed at the same time as the counters? Why did SNCB make this decision? What alternative solutions have been studied following the departure of Infrabel agents, which seems to be at the root of the problem? Are you ready to challenge this decision? What was the cost of the bridge that Infrabel installed at Dinant station? Is this a definitive solution? If not, what long-term avenues are envisaged to ensure the reception and safety of travellers? What solutions will be implemented to maintain the comfort and safety of commuters at Dinant station, especially in winter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u165	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of the Dinant station is complex. The final bridge was installed by Infrabel when the jurisdiction for the removal of level crossings and for the reception of passengers was both vested in the company. It then proposed a bridge to solve the problem of crossing the tracks at the station, to remove the crossing 115 - very close to the station - and to address the City's concerns about mobility around the Collège de Bellevue, the road congestion close to the crossing, and its crossing by many sometimes unruly students. Infrabel had applied for a building permit in 2013 for this final railway bridge, also serving the Collège de Bellevue. The permit was granted on condition that the crossing should not be removed. This was obviously not at all in line with what had been planned and negotiated prior to the filing of the permit. The transfer of the "passenger reception" competence to SNCB in 2014 further complicated the file. Infrabel has nevertheless proposed an agreement to its partners, so that it pays for the major work of the bridge between Pier No. 1 and Pier Nos. 2 and 3, while SNCB finances the finishing of the bridge and elevators and the City takes over the part giving access to the college. The City and SNCB have reached an agreement-in-principle. It is only expected that a regional subside granted to the City by Prévot will be confirmed. On February 23, 2016, the SPW refused to extend the period of validity of the permit. Infrabel will therefore have to reintroduce a new permit to start work on the final bridge at the station, once the agreements with the City and the Region have been confirmed. Given the time lost and the fact that Infrabel must maintain very expensive personnel at Dinant station in order to monitor the crossing of the tracks, an interim solution must be found. In addition, the transportation plan was reviewed to allow for major and urgent roadway remediation and rock-wall treatment between Dinant and Beauraing on line 166, requiring a single track between these two entities. Infrabel has therefore taken the initiative to lay at its own expense - on the budget for the work of the said line - a temporary bridge to be maintained at least for the duration of the construction site, that is, until mid-2018 in principle. This bridge cost 90,000 euros but remains the property of Infrabel and can be reused for other construction sites. If you understood correctly, for the necessary work, they had to set up a bridge. They were counting on the final bridge as there were procedures. According to SNCB, following the departure of Infrabel's agents, responsible for the closure and opening of the public hall at Dinant Station, the hours of access to the station will be aligned with the opening hours of the windows, from 05:45 a.m. to 20:00 a.m. on weekdays, instead of 04:50 a.m. to 23:45 a.m., and 06:00 a.m. to 20:30 p.m. on weekends instead of 05:30 a.m. to 23:00 a.m. This management is applicable in all stations in this category. Infrabel is well aware that the bridge is not easily accessible to PMRs. To remedy this, Infrabel planned to carry out, at the beginning of 2017, a crossing adapted to the end of the wharf, in an area that will be fenced, to avoid its use without supervision and support by SNCB staff. In the meantime, Infrabel plans to maintain the passenger crossing and the upper bridge, as well as the guarding for several months. It is expected that the guard will stop in the evening between 9:30 p.m. and 5:30 p.m. At that time, there were only four trains planned. As a result, travellers will be forced to take the bridge, or they will face fines. The situation in Dinant is exceptional due to the upcoming use of all tracks, which explains this exceptional decision to maintain the guard. In view of the current budgetary context, no specific arrangements are foreseen outside the access to the railway hall during the opening hours of the windows. Furthermore, due to the risks of incivility and vandalism, SNCB cannot consider leaving access to the waiting room unattended. There have already been problems in several places. "The creation of the temporary bridge tends to increase safety by removing a crossing that is increasingly dangerous for our customers," says SNCB. A PMR crossing will be carried out as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u166	Minister, I am not sure that this bridge is not very dangerous, given its steep side. However, with regard to basic permits and development projects with the removal of the crossing and the creation of a bridge to the Belle-Vue Institute, the situation is somewhat Kafkaian. I therefore hope that a solution can be found in terms of subsidies and that the permit can be confirmed. In the meantime, as in Ciney, there is a real problem in the reception of travellers beyond 8:00 p.m. I understand that this deadline has been extended by 1:30 p.m. and that only four trains are impacted. Unlike Ciney, you do not envisage opening the waiting room in electronic form, in the absence of a human presence. What a craft, Mr. Minister of Mobility! What uninviting reception conditions for travellers who would like to abandon their car and take the train from Dinant in advanced hours! I note that an effort has already been made, but I ask you to consider more structural solutions with the maintenance of a human presence until the last train, and the maintenance of a secure and heated welcome for travellers, especially during these winter months, not to mention the PMRs and we will be attentive to the confirmation of your commitments with regard to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u167	Minister, since March 1, the SNCB has reduced the opening hours of the Andenne station counter, which is now accessible only from 6:00 a.m. to 1:15 p.m. during the week. This was already bad news for the users of this station - an average of 1,584 on a daily basis in 2015 - from which more than forty trains start each week day. Now, the gathering of Infrabel's signaling teams in Namur raises concerns about the closure of the no-lost room, as at other stations, at the time of departure of the employee assigned to the counter either early in the afternoon. If this early closure of the lobby is confirmed, it will once again be the commuters who, through the reduction of their comfort or even their safety, will pay the price of searching for savings at all costs and the lack of consultation between the entities of the SNCB. In addition, the question of parking is raised in Andenne since it appears that the staff assigned to the ticket office can no longer grant parking permission to subscribers for a period of more than one month. Do you confirm the closing of the lobby of the train station in Andenne at the same time as the counters, i.e. early in the afternoon? Why did SNCB make this decision? What alternative solutions have been explored to ensure access to the no-lost room at any useful time? Are you ready to challenge this decision, as you did partially in Dinant and almost completely in Ciney? Can you tell me what solutions will be implemented to maintain the comfort and safety of commuters, especially during the winter season, at the train station in Andenne? Can you tell me why the certifications for the use of car parks by subscribers are limited to one month? Does SNCB intend to generalize paid parking for all users of the train station in Andenne?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u168	Dear colleague, SNCB informs me that the time range of the Public Lobby at Andenne Station has been aligned to the opening hours of the windows, from 6:00 a.m. to 1:15 p.m. on weekdays and 7:15 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. on weekends. This action was taken for operational reasons. Staff in the signal booth managing the opening and closing of the no-lost room are not present at the station. This management method is applicable in all stations in the same category. Without on-site staff, SNCB cannot extend the hours of accessibility to the Public Lobby. It has tried in the past to maintain accessibility to the waiting room outside the opening hours of the window and unfortunately has had to observe significant acts of recurrent incivility and vandalism. The car parks at the Andenne train station will be free from February 2017 for all passengers, whether they are subscribers or occasional. This is why parking permits will be limited in time. This decision was made because there was no longer any control over permits or the payment of car parks. It made no sense to continue selling parking products. However, an annual evaluation of this measure is planned. SNCB will therefore remain attentive to the possible need to equip the car parks of the Andenne station with an access control in order to guarantee a place for commuters.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u169	Mr Minister, I really regret the lack of openness with regard to a solution for the train station in Andenne, whereas with regard to the stations in Dinant and Ciney, obviously solutions have been found, at least in part, in consultation with the municipal authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u170	I am open to such consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u171	I note that you are open to this and I will relay it to our local councillors. I think it is really a strategic wrong choice on the part of SNCB in a structural way to consider that travellers, at such important stations, cannot be accommodated in heated and secure places. Solutions must be found with electronic airlocks and in collaboration with local authorities. I really ask you to consider the problem beyond the three cases I have just mentioned. This seems essential to me if we are to promote the use of rail. It is not normal for the users of medium and small stations to be so disadvantaged as to build rather pharaonic stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u172	Mr President, the government of the Brussels-Capital Region has confirmed its plan to reduce the number of bands on the E40 at the borders of the capital. In concrete terms, this portion of the highway is expected to move from twice six traffic bands to twice four bands in 2017. From the outset, it must be noted that this narrowing of the road seems to have been endorsed without any form of consultation with the federal authorities, the other federated entities and with all the municipalities concerned. I deeply regret this single rider of the Brussels Minister of Mobility, who did not inform his counterparts in the Executive Committee of Ministers of Mobility (ECMM), particularly when he considered the next SNCB Transport Plan. It is deplorable that the logic of strong synergies and the imperative need for a sustained dialogue on mobility management have been put on the shelf. I simply do not understand this isolated approach which will create more congestion in the roads. According to an impact study carried out last June, it is established, for example, that the rate of congestion of the Montgomery tunnel could reach the thresholds of 135 % in the day and 110 % in the evening: in both cases the simple double! In addition, there is a great risk of causing significant delays in traffic in the municipal roads in the middle of urban areas, with a deterioration in the quality of life. For those who, like me, have experienced narrowing strips of the Louise roundabout with the result of monster traffic jams, including three to five hours of waiting to get out of the parking lot on Waterloo Boulevard, the E40 scenario is a disaster without concerted action or concerted action between the levels of power. Like the record of the said roundabout, I hope that there will be a break from the Brussels government for motorway developments. As you pointed out in your plenary speech on this subject, this regional decision could undermine the policies put in place by the federal government, which aim to bring about a real modal shift in favour of public transport while reducing road congestion. These two federal objectives are perfectly compatible, if not directly complementary. Therefore, Minister, I would like to take stock of this general issue and therefore ask you the following questions. Following the momentum of consultation that you have launched within the ECMM, have you decided to put the E40 dossier on the agenda for the next meeting? Given the unilateral nature of the Brussels government's decision, can you inform me of the rail transport offer that exists in parallel with this motorway route, especially from Liège to Leuven and from Louvain to Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u173	Mr Calomne, thank you for this interesting question, even though others are. Given the lack of consultation on this issue affecting mobility in general to, from and around Brussels, I would like to confirm that this item is on the agenda of the next ECMM (Executive Committee of Ministers for Mobility), which will take place in early 2017. Given the latest developments in the press, I do not finally know whether this project is being maintained, postponed or adopted. It would be interesting to have specific information on this subject. Let me say further that for the wise observer – and what to say about the layman! –, it is extremely difficult to understand the underlying logics. When you are outside, when you see that the Flemish government, rightly, wants to expand the Brussels ring and improve six exchangers, including the Carrefour Léonard, and that two or three months later, an urban boulevard on the E40 is announced – I will allow myself not to criticize it too much, having not seen the concrete project – it is still necessary to admit that it is a little disorienting. These two projects appear to have different objectives. I regret once again that this decision was taken and announced without any form of consultation, even though the ECMM has already met several times. We have taken important decisions, at my initiative, to encourage modal shift and reduce road congestion, in particular through the concerted development of the SNCB 2017 transport plan, which foresees a substantial increase in the number of trains. So when it comes to consulting on what the federal government is doing, the Regions are here to discuss with us. We invited them. Indeed, I wanted this consultation with the Regions to be important, while railway powers are exclusively the responsibility of the federal government. In the interest of mobility and the solutions expected by citizens and businesses, I expect a minimum of reciprocity from the Brussels government. The Brussels Region is not an isolated island. Walloon and Flemish companies and commuters participate widely in the Brussels economy and deserve respect. Finally, since taking up my duties, I have been making every effort to improve the supply of rail transport to Brussels, but also to Brussels, in particular, through the development of the S offer: an increase in the number of trains with 72 additional trains since Sunday 11 December, including a number transiting from Leuven to Nivelles and Waterloo – I will come back earlier on the subject –, an improvement in the frequency of trains, the opening of new stations, better information and signalling of the offer. In this context, it is essential to avoid re-creating mobility problems at a time when solutions are being made by the federal government. Indeed, road supply should not be reduced as long as there is not a larger structural public supply. Indeed, if a significant effort has been made in the area of railways, we should perhaps now think of other modes of public transport. As I said, I heard the Brussels Minister-President say that the RSP must resolve this. I note that the E40 does not serve an area where the ER will pass. You know geography. Maybe we'll have to give him an atlas. The SNCB's closed offer between Liège, Louvain and Brussels consists, each hour, of two half-hourly connections to the high-speed line, as well as an IC line via the classic line, for a total of 50 trains a day in the direction of Liège-Brussels. This is, in terms of speed, the best Belgian line in the entire Belgian network, with 132 km/h. It takes 52 minutes to reach the centre of Brussels and the centre of Liège. This offer is supplemented, between 06:00 and 09:00 in the morning, by two fast P trains via the unserviced LGV in Leuven, and two P trains via the classic line. From Leuven there are also trains from Limburg via Hasselt and Landen: two linked ICs, i.e. 37 trains a day, and 4 P trains during peak time. The S9 relationship with 31 trains to Brussels completes the locked offer by serving the intermediate stops between Leuven and Brussels every half hour. The trains from Tongres and Hasselt which, after Aarschot, use the Leuven curve to reach Brussels live, without serving Louvain, a closed IC relationship of 18 trains and two state-of-the-art trains are also part of the offer to Brussels. I must mention again the S9 relationship, which since Monday runs all day, thus offering a locked relationship of 16 trains a day between Landen and Louvain and the European quarter, before continuing to Braine-l'Alleud, thus connecting the two Brabants. In summary, 162 trains converge every week day towards this part of Brussels, offering a capacity of around 100 000 seats, of which almost 27 000 during the morning peak hours, i.e. 36 trains. The offer of trains is probably the most extensive for this region of the country, on a line with very high quality features since it is the entrance from Brussels for the high speed line (LGV). Not content with this, we maintained an offer of trains on conventional lines. That, Mr Calomne, is what I wanted to say to you and what I will communicate to you in CEMM. The federal effort is, I think, maximum and the subsequent efforts will have to be made on less well-served regions and, in any case, the RER on line 161 and 124 will have to be completed in order to complete the accessibility in Brussels on the star network converging towards this city. It should be noted that for the first time, according to the latest studies, access to Brussels by train has exceeded access by car in the last few months. This is proof that the offer, despite all the difficulties I recognize, is an offer of quantity, perhaps not always of quality, but I intend to work on this quality. Colleagues are no longer here, but I think they could read it: when I said that the traveller was at the centre of our concerns, Infrabel included in its investment budgets 4 400 million in maintaining and improving existing network capacity. As I always say, we're not going to build a new house or make a new bathroom if the roof pierces everywhere. We've got to get the roof over again first. We have to go to the essentials. Then we go to what's more decorative. This is the strategy that I am, and it is the strategy that I have asked the two companies to print out in their choices.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u174	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer. Before giving the floor to Member Calomne, I would like to thank the minister and his staff, but also the services of the House, the bailiffs, the translators and the secretariat, for having worked until this very late hour. Mr Calomne, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u175	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, in particular the many elements that you have mentioned in relation to the rail links on this axis, which we have seen to be particularly comprehensive. I also wanted to welcome the fact that you put this issue on the agenda at the beginning of January because it deserves to be clarified on two aspects, first and foremost the question of consultation. You said it, but it is important to stress it, it must go in both directions. It is the federal towards the federated entities but it is also the federated entities towards the federal government and even the federated entities among them. There, we can still regret that the Brussels Region is acting alone. I hope that you will be able to make him feel right because beyond this lack of consultation, there is also a certain cacophony that reigns around this issue. You said it, but we don't really know if it's going to happen, when it's going to happen. Ministers and members of the Government of Brussels de-edit and contradict each other by means of an interposed press. There is also a certain cacophony which is harmful. But, as you said, Brussels is not an island. Walloon and Flemish commuters deserve respect, as well as Brusselsers. The road currently being taken by the Brussels regional authorities is clearly not going in this direction. Minister, I hope that the meeting that you will have at the beginning of January will allow both clarification and dialogue. It's important. It's a file we haven't finished hearing about. Thank you, Minister, at least for the positive news.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic553x.u176	I wish you a good evening and I join the President in thanking all the staff who accompanied us on this long afternoon's question-and-answer adventure.
