ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Gilkinet's 5633 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 8057 by Mr Hedebouw has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u2	Madam President, I wish all colleagues a happy New Year. Minister, I would like to share with you as comprehensively as possible the small and large Kyoto funds. Could you describe to me the state of resources and related expenditures? I would also like you to tell us how the federal government will fund the policies and measures it has undertaken in the context of burden sharing to reduce greenhouse gases in sectors not covered by the ETS (Emission Trading Scheme). You will recall, Madam Minister, that we have dealt with this issue in the course of the budget work. My question therefore allows you to re-explain what it is going on in order to start the year calmly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u3	Mr Nollet, if the calm is intrinsically linked to the content of the questions, we must continue to do so. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all a happy New Year. The 25-7 budget fund of the Public Health FPS, called "Food Chain Security and Environment" or "Small Kyoto Fund", has been used to finance both the activities and the staff of the Climate Change Service since its establishment in 2003. I would like to recall that on 1 October last, during the discussions on the abolition of organic budgetary funds, the Council of Ministers unanimously decided on its provisional retention. To date, this fund still has reserves of EUR 12.664 million in commitment appropriations. The Council of Ministers also decided to continue to feed it up to 2017 for €3.6 million from the reserves of the major Kyoto fund. The latter is managed by CREG and currently has €54.8 million in reserves, which the law provides for the financing of federal climate policy. In addition to the EUR 3.6 million, this year the small fund will continue to benefit from the revenue from the remuneration paid by account holders in the national greenhouse gas register and from the cooperation agreement with our Luxembourg neighbours for the management of their national register, amounting respectively to EUR 207 609.20 and EUR 17 515.44. Its continuation will be discussed at the latest at the time of the preparation of the 2017 budget. The government agreement provides for the eventual abolition of the large Kyoto fund. However, it is essential for me to find a lasting solution for the financing of the federal climate policy and the Climate Change Service, given the federal government's essential role in this area within our country, as recently confirmed by the political agreement on burden sharing of 4 December. The Paris Agreement and the resulting obligations for our country further reinforce this need. The government agreement must, of course, be read in this new context. With regard to the expenditure envisaged for each of these funds, as you know, the 2016 budget provides for expenditure of €3.825 million for the small Kyoto fund. The planned spending in 2016 on the large Kyoto fund currently amounts to around EUR 300 000 in addition to the annual transfer of EUR 3.6 million to the small Kyoto fund, as I said earlier, and without taking into account any other needs as a result of the burden sharing agreement and the Paris agreement. With regard to the financing of the policies and measures to which the government has committed itself in the political agreement on burden sharing, we still have to calculate precisely what the costs of their implementation will be. My administration has begun to prepare a cooperation agreement between the federal state and the three regions to formalize and operationalize this burden sharing. I hope to be able to provide more clarity on the details of this cooperation agreement and its budgetary impact as soon as possible. The resulting federal climate plan will have to respect budgetary neutrality and additional expenditures will have to be offset by new revenues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u4	Minister, I will take the time to dissect this answer and come back to you later if necessary. However, I note your political position, when you say that there is a new context "after Paris". I welcome this, even though this political position has not yet been translated into concrete terms. That's normal. It takes time to digest it. At the beginning of the year, I can only invite you to consider both food, work and budgets for the Kyoto funds, especially for the missions of the Kyoto funds, in view of these new elements. I think you have answered my question about the timetable. You say it's guaranteed until 2017. In fact, it's pretty much until the end of 2016. For the 2017 budget, nothing is yet guaranteed. Until the end of 2016, things are clear. After that, in October, at the time of preparing the 2017 budget, you will review it in detail. I note that the federal costs of burden sharing are not yet fully calculated. Furthermore, the cooperation agreement has yet to be drafted and approved. Having said that, I have not understood well what you mean by budgetary neutrality. In my view, the Kyoto fund should be immunized as part of the linear efforts that administrations must make. Can you tell me that this framework will be respected?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u5	The policies and actions we need to take could result in expenditure and revenue that will have to balance to achieve a neutral outcome. In other words, when the federal government establishes a list of policies and measures to be taken to save an additional 7,000 kilotonnes in addition to the current 15,250, expenditures may be recorded, which will need to be offset by new revenues. This is what is meant by the "principle of neutrality".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u6	This is how things are clarified. But what about the 10% of staff, the 20% in operation and the 30% in investment? Will the fund be effectively immunized within this framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u7	It is not possible for me to answer this question today, but I can ask the competent people about it and give you the answer later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u8	Mr Nollet, you are free to submit a follow-up request, which the Minister can then prepare for.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u9	Minister, Belgium has committed itself to achieving a level of 13% renewable energy in the final consumption of gross energy in 2020. The objective is well defined as a relative share of final consumption. What, then, was not our surprise at the fact that the agreement on burden sharing was merely an effort in absolute numbers! My question is who will have to make the effort if the total consumption exceeds 4,224 Mtoe taken into consideration in order to allocate the effort in absolute terms between the Regions and the federal government. Do you have an agreement on this or is the discussion postponed to later?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u10	Mr Nollet, the content of the agreement has been communicated to you. You have already received some answers to this question. Firstly, in accordance with Article 3 of Directive 2009/28 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2009 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, Belgium is indeed committed to achieving the national objective you have indicated. If the target is expressed as a percentage, Article 5 of the same Directive, which concerns the calculation of the share of energy produced from renewable sources, states in its 6°: "The share of energy produced from renewable sources is calculated by dividing the gross final consumption of energy produced from renewable sources by the gross final consumption of energy from all sources, expressed as a percentage." This calculation therefore involves knowledge of two basic data: gross final energy consumption from renewable energy sources, absolute value, and gross final energy consumption from all sources. Defining an objective therefore amounts to positioning itself against these two absolute values. This also brings additional clarity, particularly for the players in the renewable sector, which means that it is readable over time with regard to a journey. The important political agreement reached on 4 December 2015 between the climate ministers on the sharing of intra-Belgian efforts, in particular on the targets for renewable energy sources by 2020, finally provides a solution to a problem that has remained open for many years. It is an important step in the implementation of the elements of the European energy-climate package for the period 2013-2020. The agreement states: "By taking as a reference the objective of final energy consumption notified by Belgium to the European Commission in the context of the European transposition of the Energy Efficiency Directive, the Belgian target of 13% for renewable energy sources represents an absolute value of 4.224 Mtoe. Each Contracting Party therefore undertakes to increase the share of renewable energy in 2020 to 2,156 Mtoe for the Flemish Region, 1,277 Mtoe for the Walloon Region, 0.073 Mtoe for the Brussels-Capital Region and 0.718 Mtoe for the Federal Region." This is therefore a link between the two 2020 targets, which I mentioned earlier and which are defined in absolute terms: the final energy consumption target and the renewable energy target, 4.224 Mtoe, the respective share of which for the entities was set out in the agreement, as I have just detailed. Your question concerns the case where a positive or negative difference would remain. Again, the agreement provided several responses through several mechanisms. First of all, there is an appointment clause: "Finally, if there remains a difference between the share of renewable energy sources and the target of 13% to be achieved by 2020, notwithstanding the implementation of the above objectives, the Parties will jointly agree on corrective measures to be undertaken within the framework of the first consultation committee which will follow directly the finalization of the inventory figures and assessments of the renewable energy target." Then there is a monitoring mechanism: "Progress in the promotion and use of energy from renewable sources will be evaluated at the end of 2017 and end 2019. The item will be monitored in a consultation group between the State and the Regions for Energy (CONCERE) and, where appropriate, in the concertation committee." Finally, freedom of action in the means used is also provided for possible cases of surplus. A principle favours intrabelgian preemption in this case. If one Region does more than the others, "the federal authority and the Regions will be able to have at their discretion any surplus in emission allowances and/or renewable energy production in relation to their greenhouse gas reduction and renewable energy production objective, while giving priority to the principle of federal and interregional solidarity before any transaction with third States." I continue: "Each entity defines its own means of action to achieve its own objectives, including the possible use of flexibility mechanisms." I repeat, a solution was found to a problem that had not been found for many years. However, this is one step, and there will be others. We are far from achieving the goal we are trying to achieve, it is only a first step in the fight against global warming. If you have not received the text of the agreement, we will forward it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u11	The agreement has officially been submitted to the committee secretariat. In the absence of the chairman of the committee this week, as Vice-President, I agree to distribute this agreement to the members. But I understand that Mr Nollet has already received it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u12	Mr. Nollet has his canals and sources...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u13	Yes, it is. At the time I tabled the question, I did not have the answer yet, but I got it elsewhere. Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I note that as far as renewable energy is concerned, there is indeed a clause of'rendez-vous', as you said, a postponement to later. I think it would have been simpler - and I hear that the Flemish Minister has called for this too - to set percentage distributions. This seems logical to me, even if it refers to two absolute values; two absolute values in a report are equivalent to a percentage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u14	No, it can be a percentage. This is not necessarily a percentage. It's a nominator and a denominator in a fraction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u15	We are not going to hold much debate on this, but it could have been said that these same proportions will be used in the future upwards or downwards if necessary. I would stress this because it gives a strong indication of the benefits of energy efficiency in relation to renewable energies, of the reduction in consumption, of the reduction of the two points of departure. Here, we do not want to make this link and reduce the overall consumption.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u16	No, there is freedom of action in the means implemented and each entity will progress according to its mode of operation, according to the decisions it will take, according to the configuration of the efforts it can make but on a path which, agreed by all parties, has been desired in absolute terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u17	It is therefore clear that there is a freedom for all parties to achieve things as they wish, and fortunately. Nevertheless, there is a lack of an internal incentive to the mechanism itself. That's what I want to emphasize here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u18	Madam President, my question concerns the 50 million annual commitments to 2020 under international climate finance. The federal government is taking over - it was discussed in plenary - a contribution of $25 million. It's also part of burden sharing. During the budgetary work in plenary we had the opportunity to make it clear by your colleague Wilmès that these 25 million would not be taken into account in development cooperation budgets but in the federal share of ETS revenue. I assume that you confirm this and the fact that these will be complementary and additional means; that these means ETS will not simply finance projects that were previously supported by the Development Cooperation budget. That's my first question. I would ask you to understand the concerns of the sectors concerned and the need for greater clarity in your response in view of the fact that the budget documents adopted at the end of December do not provide for a specific budget item on this subject. Can you also tell us how many years this ETS source will be mobilized? Some claim that it can only be used for 2 or up to 3 years. Do you confirm that? Depending on the numbers you have given at times, this will be an interesting parameter. If so, can you guarantee that we will remain in the future within the framework of additional and additional means and that the means of development cooperation will be well protected? What will then be the budgetary sources of this international funding? Given that burden sharing allocates 10% of the resources currently available to the federal government and that therefore only 32.6 million are guaranteed to the federal government, we can even more understand the concerns of the sectors and actors concerned. My second set of questions relates to how, if ETS resources are mobilized for international financing, the accountability mechanism will be funded. Which budget source will feed into this mechanism? Is there a precise debate by the government on these various points? Would we be able to receive a copy?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u19	Madam Chair, Mr. Nollet, thank you for these questions. It is indeed correct to say that at COP21 in Paris, the Prime Minister announced a commitment by Belgium to contribute 50 million euros per year to international climate finance until 2020 from 2016. Indeed, following the agreement with the Regions on burden sharing, the federal government will bear EUR 25 million per year in this envelope. I also confirm to you, as the Budget Minister recently said – we were both present during the debate on the 2016 budget – that the Council of Ministers has decided that this contribution will come from the federal share of ETS revenues. I can still tell you that if it turns out that the EUR 25 million is not reached in a given year, the missing part will be financed from the development cooperation budget. With regard to your question on the protection of the resources of this department, I suggest that you ask the competent minister. For my part, I intend to propose to Minister De Croo that our departments further strengthen their collaboration in order to maximize synergies in their actions in support of developing countries. I would admit that we are criticizing the fact that measures taken by the development cooperation sector should not be confused with these measures or should not be considered as if the money were being recycled a second time, but it must still be recognized that measures taken within the framework of development cooperation are de facto contributing to the fight against global warming. That is where there is greater clarity and cooperation, and that is what I want to do. The ETS source, as you call it, is sustainable as the European emissions trading system continues not only until 2020 but beyond. The agreement on Belgian burden sharing was concluded until 2020, ensuring that the federal government had auction revenues until then. For the later period, until 2030, we do not yet have a burden sharing – and we have to do this – because, among other things, the Belgian target for this period has not yet been set at European level. Once we have the elements coming from Europe, we will be able to get back to the table and continue our work for this 2020-2030 package. At this point, I cannot inform you beyond 2020 about the use of the federal share of these revenues. The exact amount of revenue from the auctioning of ETS allowances is difficult to forecast for the future, even in the coming years. These are forecasts (high range or low range) that are calculated by the people who manage this fund. When we say, even in 2016, that 32.6 million is equivalent to 10% of 326 million, it's because we're in an account. But when we are told that this should reach such an amount, then we are in a projection. We must therefore be careful. It can also be a projection that is underestimated. So we can have more than what was assessed as such. This amount is difficult to predict because we currently do not know the price of an issue quota since we do not know the impact of measures such as backloading and market stability reserve that will take effect in 2018. Today, therefore, we can only talk about forecasts and projections. It is hoped that the latter instrument will contribute to a stable and sufficiently high carbon price not only to ensure a stable income for climate policy but also to give a signal to investors. With regard to the accountability mechanism, the Special Funding Act 2014 provides that the bonuses to be paid to Regions that exceed their emission reduction target in the building sector will have to be funded by ETS. However, this mechanism is not, for the time being, operationalized. For this to happen, the political agreement on burden sharing will have to be translated into a formal cooperation agreement. Therefore, it is not yet possible to draw up the budgets involved. In conclusion, I agree with you that we need to think carefully about how to make the best use of ETS revenues for federal climate policy both internationally and within our country in order to begin the low-carbon transition on which we made commitments under the Paris Agreement. As many colleagues have said in this House, after the conclusion of COP21, this transition work has only just begun. In order to address a challenge such as this one, we will have to organize the transformation of our society in a broader way. Indeed, we cannot just focus on the point we are considering. I am thinking in particular of our economy, which we are already looking at. I have often told you about the circular economy what I am working on and will most likely continue to do for several years, in collaboration with my colleagues in the federal government, my colleagues in the regional governments, but also with all the actors involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u20	Madam Chair, Minister, your answer is cause for concern. Indeed, you have explained that the possible missing part will be taken on development cooperation. In doing so, we are no longer at all in a complementary and additional framework. This is all the more worrying given that we are faced with two uncertainties. Indeed, as you said, there are projections. Moreover, it is not possible today to say that ETS revenues will be sufficient. At the same time, the accountability mechanism is not yet in place, and when this is the case, we will draw on ETS revenues. In any case, to say today that, in the event of a shortage, the development cooperation budget will be drawn from, it is to depart from the commitments that Belgium has made and that the financing will be made in additional resources and additional resources. Clearly, funding had to come from the general budget and not from the development cooperation budget. For the exact wording of the decision, I would like you to send us the notification of the government's decision. Do this later, so that we can also receive it by email.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u21	Minister, the national climate change adaptation plan should have been adopted before the end of 2012. In response to my written question on the status of the case, more than two months ago, you told me that if the regional parts of the plan were to be completed, the federal contribution was being finalized and would be made shortly. My first question therefore is whether this federal part is now being drafted and when the inter-federal plan has been or will be finally adopted. My second question concerns the content of this plan and more specifically the 11 actions announced. What exactly do they cover and on what timetable will they be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u22	As you know, I made a commitment in my policy note to adopt a federal adaptation plan, for which a project was developed by my administration, in consultation with the federal departments concerned. This project was submitted to public inquiry and the opinion of the Federal Council on Sustainable Development in 2014. It was presented to my federal government partners and discussed with them in March 2015, but it has not yet been adopted in the state. I intend to submit to the Council of Ministers shortly an amended version, in the form of a federal contribution to adaptation to climate change in Belgium, taking into account the various comments I have received in the context of this interactive work. I can't say today, and you will understand it, and give you a precise deadline for adopting this contribution, but I look forward to a quick conclusion of this issue and the implementation of federal adaptation actions as soon as possible. The federal contribution to climate change adaptation project aims to leverage the range of levers available to the federal authority, within its jurisdiction, to pursue an effective and coordinated adaptation policy. This project identifies 28 federal actions to address the need to build capacity to assess, anticipate, and mitigate the risks associated with climate change impacts. These federal actions are designed to integrate the climate change adaptation component into ten federal sectoral policies. These include transport, the economy, energy, the marine environment, research, health, development cooperation, crisis management in natural disasters, international security and agriculture. Cross-cutting measures, linked to coherent integration of adaptation in different areas or policies, and awareness and understanding of the issues, are also identified. These actions will be implemented once the contribution has been adopted within six years. The draft national adaptation plan 2015-2020 identifies 11 actions of national scope aimed at enhancing the effectiveness of adaptation policies at the regional and federal levels. For the next five years, these measures will include improving and disseminating the knowledge base in terms of adaptation, strengthening sectoral coordination and taking adaptation into account in different sectors such as health, biodiversity, energy and crisis management. The draft national adaptation plan was submitted to the National Climate Commission on 7 July 2015. However, its adoption had to be postponed. Together with my counterparts, I hope that I can quickly reach a conclusion on the matter, with a view to adopting this plan as soon as possible. As you know, I have been chairing the National Commission since 1 January and it is 6 January!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u23	Madam Minister, I just wanted to congratulate you on that. It all depends on what the federal government still needs to close in order to be able to lead into the National Climate Commission. When you say "next," does it mean in the quarter or year?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u24	I understand that you always wanted to have agendas...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u25	But when are you going to file your project? I'm not asking when you're going to adopt it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u26	I must first introduce the desired amendments in the Council of Ministers and then follow the procedure. I can't tell you how long it'll take. At the level of the National Commission, I give you a first example. I met on Monday with Mr Peter Wittoeck for the drafting of the cooperation agreement on the burden sharing agreement of 4 December. I told him that there was a need for immediate flooring and he replied that it was complicated to draft legislation as a result of an agreement. You don't have to tell me. I offered him a technical meeting. So I can't tell you that we'll be done in three weeks or two months. It'll be as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u27	My question is not when you're done, but when you're going to table your point in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u28	As soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u29	For the rest, I agree that there are discussions, but that is up to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u30	We still have to go to DAB. The co-workers of the ministers concerned with these matters are working on them. Then it will go to the level of the collaborators of the Deputy Prime Ministers and finally to the government. I can't tell you how long it's going to take, but I'm just insisting on things moving forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic299x.u31	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Foret's 8212 was postponed.
