ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic400x.u1	Mr President, Minister, I am asking you today about the justice of peace in the canton of Saint-Josse-ten-Noode, 29 rue du Méridien. This building has been in an advanced state of disrepair for several years. The wish of the municipality of Saint-Josse-ten-Noode, owner of the premises, is to allow the justice of peace to work in safe and suitable premises. Nevertheless, the building is very delapidated and any repair would be like a plaster on a wooden leg given the importance of the repairs and the costs that could be incurred. I think I know that justice of peace is meant to remain in the territory of Saint-Josse. Last year, the Régie des Bâtiments visited a building on Avenue des Arts. I wanted to have some clarification. At the level of the Federal Ministry, a case was brought to trial. It's the owner of the building to put the place in good condition. To do this, we are forced to take an order of unsanitaryness and to ask the tenant to get rid of it. Minister, what about the provision of new premises adapted to the justice of peace in the canton of Saint-Josse-ten-Noode? Is the track mentioned last year during the visit of a building Avenue des Arts confirmed? What is the status of this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic400x.u2	Mr President, Mr Kir, the justice of peace in Saint-Josse-ten-Noode has been poorly housed for a long time. That is why, in view of the new 2014 law under which the federal authority became responsible for hosting the justices of the peace, it was quickly decided to leave the current building. After a previous exploration that did not yield any results, the Régie des Bâtiments recently conducted a new prospecting. Three buildings were held. After examination, only one of these buildings was eventually retained. My services went to the scene last week. Thus, it appears that this building could be suitable for a number of purposes. Negotiations with the owner are currently under way. As this matter is the responsibility of the Régie des Bâtiments, I would therefore refer you to the minister responsible for its oversight for more information on the timing, rent and other aspects.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic400x.u3	Mr Minister, it is therefore recently that a new building has been retained. Allow me to draw your attention to the fact that, within your government, a department has, for reasons related to the safety and working environment of public servants, brought legal action in the context of which it instructs the owner not to let its agents work under the conditions currently imposed on them. It would therefore be necessary to go very quickly to prevent the commune and the mayor of Saint-Josse being forced to take an expulsion order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic400x.u4	Questions Nos 9647 and 10186 by Mrs Matz were postponed. Point 3, namely the attached question No 10205 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez and the inquiry No 142 by Mrs Matz, is also postponed. Question No 10914 by Mrs Özen is postponed to two weeks. Question No 10938 by Mrs Lijnen and question No 10976 by Mrs Gerkens are postponed. Question No 11098 by Mrs Uyttersprot is transformed into a written question. As for Mrs Jadin, her question No 10897 was transformed into a written question and her question No 11083 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic400x.u5	Minister, at the request of the ASBL Islamic Religious Education of Belgium, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation has just authorised an Islamic Basic School in Schaerbeek to open a secondary section in September. This is a first, but probably not a last. In addition, this secondary section is expected to expand in the near future by opening other places and thus accommodate some 660 students only of Muslim faith. In the current climate, and while the federal government is announcing more than 30 measures and more than 400 million euros to counter terrorism, but also to prevent radicalisation so as to restore life together - currently poorly developed - I do not believe that this authorization is a measure in line with reality. I know this is a community jurisdiction, not a federal jurisdiction, but it demonstrates once again the lack of willingness of this community to integrate. There are many reactions among citizens. My question will be three times, minister. In this school, philosophical classes will be organized. In this regard, has a screening of Muslim religious teachers been set up? Has there been any consultation between the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and your department? Finally, has the State Security been consulted and issued an opinion on the matter? If so, which one? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic400x.u6	Mr Carcaci, the recognition of schools is a purely regional matter. For the Islamic school in question, the State Security has communicated to me that I have not received any request for information from the Wallonia-Brussels Federation concerning a screening of Muslim religious teachers. Therefore, it did not deliver an opinion. On a more general level, I can inform you that my services and those of the previous Minister of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, responsible for education, have been working together to explore the possibility of concluding a memorandum of understanding between the State Security and the administration of the Education of the federated entity with a view to mutual exchange of information. Such a memorandum of understanding already exists between the intelligence services and those of the Flemish Education Administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic400x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answer. Nevertheless, while the situation is somewhat tense between some communities, I personally consider that living together begins by attending school together, participating in activities together to be in phase with a view to better integration and feeling at home in the country. Therefore, this kind of school can only be a hindrance to this living-together that everyone wants.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic400x.u8	Minister, I would like to ask you a question on a specific issue, namely the purchase of hire. Since the banking crisis of 2008, Basel standards have been strengthened and each country has transposed these standards into national actions. This made banks more stringent in credit assessment for their customers, especially when granting mortgage loans. The bank is going to ask for an important contribution from its own resources. There is therefore a risk that the private individual, with his current income, will not be eligible for a mortgage loan at the present time, but because of insufficient own resources. That prevents a lot of people from buying a place. Several real estate offices show that the average age of buyers and builders of real estate is significantly increasing. One can of course always rent first and at the top of the rental price try to save a sum together. However, this is a process which is very slow and leads to expenses for a rental house in which one does not want to invest because one wants to keep the money available for a future home. With the lease purchase, traditional banking financing could be an alternative. This is a system created by the housing shortage after the Second World War. Especially in the Netherlands one tries to make a combination of two business rights, rent and buy. Both for the seller and for the rental buyer there are advantages and of course also disadvantages. The sixth state reform has shifted jurisdiction for rental to the Regions. Buying a place remains a federal jurisdiction. It is therefore a question of how we should deal with rental buying here: legal, fiscal and financial-economic. It becomes even more complex if, for example, we were to provide rental purchases for a particular target group, for example in the context of social housing. In the Netherlands there is a special type of credit with a transfer of ownership called hire purchase. Article 1576 of the book 7A of the Dutch Civil Code describes the rental purchase as a down payment purchase with retention of title. It is different from real estate leasing and it is also different from the purchase on post payment. The difference with the latter is that in the rental purchase the buyer only becomes the owner of the sold goods after the last term has been paid, so if the loan has been repaid in full. Until such time as this has been done, the buyer may not sell or lease the goods sold and the buyer is also liable for any damage. The Dutch law still makes a number of special demands. The system exists not only in the Netherlands but also in France and other countries since 1984. In Belgium it is not prohibited, but there is no clear regulation. It is also not individually determined as a legal legal figure, which means that it is actually governed by common law on purchase and contract concluded by the parties. There are clear deficits around workable and clear financial and tax rules. I come now to my point, after a long introduction. In the context of the strict requirements relating to mortgage loans and the modernisation of the real estate market, it seems interesting to me to go beyond the traditional avenues of leasing, selling and renting and, for example, to use rent-purchase. Several websites have already recommended this. Firstly, are the lease purchase agreements registered in a different way than rental or purchase agreements? Secondly, what are the main obstacles to the practical application of this right in Belgium? Thirdly, does the Minister see advantages in a system as a rental purchase to the extent that this could possibly be regulated by law?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic400x.u9	Mr President, Mr Vermeulen, the purchase of rents can indeed be a good way of acquiring property. The purchaser can acquire a house that he cannot normally pay. For the landlord/seller it can be an interesting investment. Hire purchase can be defined as the purchase of a property where the parties agree that the rental buyer will have the property available for a specified period of time, against payment of a price payable in periodic instalments in the form of a rental money. This implies that after that specified period, in so far as all payment periods have been met, the rental buyer acquires ownership of this property. The lease purchase thus concerns a sale contract of a real estate whereby the transfer of ownership is suspended until after the full payment. The purchase price is paid by monthly deposits and it is a sale with the modality for the payment of the price. The registration fees for sales are payable on a rental purchase. Indeed, it is assumed that a clause in a private sale contract of a property whereby the transfer of ownership is suspended until after the full payment of the selling price, to be paid by means of a number of monthly deposits, is not a lease with deferred transfer of ownership, but a sale providing for the modality of the payment of prices. Since all sales contracts must be entered in public mortgage retention registers, the lease purchase agreement will also take an authentic form. In addition, the rights of the rental buyer are guaranteed in this way, as the transfer makes his title contrary to third parties. Moreover, the transfer to public registers of mortgage firms avoids the possibility of double rental or sale by the seller. In Belgium there are no specific legislation on rental purchase. This legal figure is mainly governed by the common law on purchase and contract concluded by the two parties. It does not seem that special problems can arise in this context. Since in the present case the application of common law does not cause any particular problems in this matter, a legislative initiative does not seem necessary at the present time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic400x.u10	Thank you, Minister. You say a number of things that I was already aware of for 90%. You also say that there are no major problems which prevent legislative initiative from taking place. However, I note that this medicine is not being used, and it could be a very interesting solution in the future. We should discuss this later. An in-depth debate with the sector itself, based on figures, would be good to see how a better arrangement could be achieved. At the moment, when considering using this instrument, there are still too many questions that cannot be used. Sustainability and stability are better for the economy for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic400x.u11	Minister, this year the law on residence co-parenting has been in force for ten years. That law concerns the evenly distributed housing and also the enforced enforcement of the child's housing. If the parents do not agree on the stay of their children, the judge has since then examined first whether residence co-parenthood is possible as one of the parents asking questions to the court. If the judge finds that the evenly distributed accommodation is not the most appropriate solution, an unevenly divided stay is imposed. Whatever decision is taken, it must be thoroughly justified. Even after all these years there is still confusion and uneven interpretation of the words "as a matter of priority" in the law. Many of these words give the impression that residence co-parenting should be the rule, which I do not think is the case. There is a uniform and uneven distribution of residence and the judge must check, on a case-by-case basis, what is in the best interests of the children in a particular case. First of all, will the law be reviewed as a result of its ten-year existence? Or do there already exist evaluations, to which you can refer? Secondly, what have the consequences been on the ground? Thirdly, what is your position in relation to a possible change of law in the sense of deleting the words "as a matter of priority" in the said law?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic400x.u12	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, parliamentary preparation shows that the purpose of Article 374 (2) of the Civil Code is to make it clear to the court that preference should be given to the evenly distributed residence regime. The legislator intended to oblige the court first of all to consider whether it would be possible for parents to have an evenly distributed residence scheme for their child. At the same time, attention was also drawn to the fact that this is not always the most appropriate solution, so that the court cannot be obliged to impose an evenly distributed residence regime in all cases. For this reason, the court retains the right under the law to impose other rules, subject to detailed reasons, taking into account the specific circumstances of the case in the interests of the children and the parents. It was also noted that the evenly distributed residence scheme could be successful if a number of conditions were met in terms of, among other things, the guidance and behaviour of the parties, the availability of parents, the possibility of dialogue between parents, the fact that there should be no incompatible vision of education and the fact that parents' residences should not be too far apart. The government agreement does not provide for an evaluation of residence co-parenthood. At present, KU Leuven is carrying out a scientific study aimed at carrying out such an evaluation. I will take note of the results with great attention and, on this basis, will examine whether an evaluation or amendment of the law is necessary. I therefore do not think it is necessary at the moment to take initiatives to make the optional nature of an equally divided stay more known. No problems have been identified to date. I think it is advisable to await the results of the current investigation before making any amendment to Article 374, § 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic400x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I will wait with you with great interest the results of the KU Leuven research.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic400x.u14	Mr President, Minister, I refer to Articles 987 to 991a of the Legal Code, which regulate the payment of experts. The law entered into force on 1 September 2007 and was intended to speed up, reduce and improve the quality of legal proceedings. When the opposite turned out to be true, a repair law of 30 December 2009 introduced some practical changes, filling a number of gaps. However, according to my information, this repair law also has a number of gaps which lead to different practices within the courts. I'll give you three. Firstly, the fees granted by the courts would often be inadequate and sometimes even unrealistic. The introduction of VAT on expertise costs is often not taken into account. Secondly, obtaining the award and payment of an additional commission would often be difficult. This is, of course, not the case in all courts. It is reported that it may sometimes take months for a judgment to award an additional commission or for sums of money to be transferred to the experts. Thirdly, the Registrys of the Courts would not be equipped to transfer the signed amounts to the experts in good time. The present situation entails certain dangers. For example, experienced legal experts would drop out early and also young, upcoming experts wouldn't take the leap out of the cost if they did this job. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. First of all, what do you think is a reasonable lead time between a commission payment sentence and the payment of that commission? Secondly, do you acknowledge that the problems mentioned arise? Have these problems been mapped out in some way? Has any proposals been made to remedy the problem? Finally, do you have an idea of the amount of consigned funds in the various courts for the past three years?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic400x.u15	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, a distinction must be made between judicial costs in criminal matters and civil matters. The performance of judicial experts in criminal matters shall be regulated through fees on court fees in criminal matters. In that context, no commission shall be granted by the Registrys to the court experts. They shall be reimbursed on the basis of the cost statements which they deliver to the requesting judicial authority for the services performed. From the reading of your question, I think you mean the payment of legal experts in civil matters. For this, the required elements are not available in the administration. This is, after all, regulated by local judicial entities. My administration has therefore asked the lectures of the Public Prosecutor and the courts and courts to provide the figures and the data.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic400x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and I will put a question again when the information is available.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic400x.u17	I understand you're referring to civil matters, don't I?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic400x.u18	Indeed, Minister, the civil affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic400x.u19	Minister, the draft law approving the cooperation agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on the fight against organised crime and terrorism was recently adopted in Parliament. Article 12 of that Convention provides that each Contracting Party shall refuse assistance if the provision of assistance could threaten sovereignty, security, public policy or other essential State interests, or if it appears that the assistance is contrary to the legal provisions in force in its territory. That article is very important in terms of protecting human rights. According to the explanatory memorandum, Article 12 also refers to situations in which cooperation is likely to constitute a breach of fundamental rights, including the prohibition of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment. To date, several human rights organisations have reported the problem of torture in Morocco. For example, the fact that confessions are still being obtained in that country through torture has already had consequences in our country. In the case of El Haski, the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) found that our country had failed to comply with its obligations under Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR), as evidence was used that there was a real risk of being obtained in Morocco by a treatment contrary to Article 3 of the ECHR. In 2013, the Code of Criminal Procedure was amended on the nullity of evidence. However, the law amending the previous title of the Code of Criminal Procedure as regards nullities does not contain any explicit reference to torture or other abuse as grounds of nullity. However, the UN Committee against Torture already made recommendations in this respect. Of course, Morocco is not the only country where such a violation of human rights is conceivable. A general nullity basis would, of course, also have a general scope. Do you consider it appropriate to include torture and other abuse in the Code of Criminal Procedure as grounds for nullity for evidence? If so, what initiative do you intend to take and what is the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic400x.u20	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu referred to the case of El Haski in which our country was indeed convicted by judgment of 25 September 2012 of the ECHR. As always, an action plan was drawn up by the Belgian State following the judgment of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. In the context of your question, the general measures set out in that action plan are important. I am not going to go over this action plan in full and you can have access to it if you wish. However, I would like to point out that the federal prosecutor issued the service note 32/2013 in order to prevent the use of statements obtained through torture or inhuman or degrading treatment in a Belgian judicial procedure. The Action Plan also mentions the memo 492/2014 of 26 March 2014 distributed within the network for international cooperation among magistrates. The Law of 24 October 2013 amending the previous title of the Code of Criminal Procedure as regards the nullity is also cited in the Action Plan. The imported Article 32 states that the nullity of evidence obtained irregularly shall be decided only if compliance with the relevant formal conditions is prescribed on penalty of nullity or if the irregularity committed has affected the reliability of the evidence, or if the use of the evidence is contrary to the right to a fair trial. The Action Plan explicitly states that, although the use of evidence obtained through a treatment contrary to Article 3 of the ECHR is not explicitly mentioned in the legislative text, the chosen criteria allow for the possible exclusion of such evidence. Finally, the Action Plan states that the judgment in cassation of 11 December 2013 takes into account the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. On 10 September 2014, the Committee of Ministers declared the case of El Haski officially closed on the basis of the proposed and discussed action plan. In other words, for the Council of Europe as a Member State, we have done all we could to avoid a new conviction for similar facts. That is why I will not take any further initiative in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic400x.u21	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic400x.u22	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's 10690 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic400x.u23	Mr President, Minister, the fight against terrorism requires a multidisciplinary approach, some of which, such as the fight against arms trafficking or the fight against the financing of terrorism, are too often neglected. Articles 2 and 3 of the Royal Decree of 28 December 2006 on specific restrictive measures against certain persons who have been concerned in the fight against the financing of terrorism provide for the possibility of freezing the funds and economic resources of persons and entities who commit, attempt to commit, facilitate or participate in terrorist offences. When we know the necessary means (planks, travel, equipment, etc.) to carry out attacks such as those in Paris or Brussels, this possibility of freezing certain assets appears to be one of the priority tools to be used to prevent terrorism. The same decree, in articles 2, 3 and 5, based on United Nations resolution 1,373, provides that, on the basis of the assessments of the OCAM which are communicated ex officio to the members, the Ministerial Committee on Intelligence and Security established by the Royal Decree of 21 June 1996 shall submit to the Ministers for approval a list of persons and entities to be targeted for freezing, to be published by royal decree. This list of names must be reviewed at least every six months, or at the request of the persons concerned. It is, of course, a cornerstone, which must make it possible to operate the said decree. Since the adoption of the Decree under reference, how many times has the possibility of freezing assets of persons been used? Do you have any information on the amounts frozen in this context? What is their total and how much do they average? What types of funds or economic resources have been targeted? Do you believe that freezing funds and economic resources of persons guilty of or suspected of terrorist acts is an effective means of combating terrorism? What improvements can be made to this system to improve its effectiveness? With regard to the well-known lists mentioned in Articles 2, 3 and 5 of the Order, can you tell me how many names are there today? How many names have they been there since the adoption of the decree? Some of them may have disappeared. What are the difficulties encountered by the MACO or the Ministerial Intelligence Committee in preparing these lists? What improvements could be made to improve its effectiveness?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic400x.u24	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, the 2006 Royal Order concerns two mechanisms. Article 2 refers to the freezing of assets of persons and entities listed in the European Union and for which the Union had no powers to decide on the freezing of assets. The last list of these persons and entities published by the European Union was 31 persons and 18 entities. These are intra-EU terrorist individuals and entities, such as the Basque ETA or the Irish ERA. However, this mechanism is suspended. The Treaty of Lisbon gave the Union competence to decide on the freezing of the assets of terrorist persons and entities within the European Union. This competence has not yet been exercised by the Commission. There is indeed another mechanism for listing and freezing assets at the level of the Union and the United Nations Security Council. Groups such as Al Qaeda, the Islamic State or the PKK are on these lists and Belgium is implementing these decisions. But this does not fall within the scope of the 2006 Royal Order, which is the subject of your question. The Royal Decree of 2006 contains a second mechanism referred to in Article 3. Realizing that this mechanism has never been activated in Belgium, I took the initiative with the Minister of Finance to remedy this deficiency. Together, we adopted a circular in September to activate this mechanism and further define the procedure for putting the first people and groups on the list. It is the responsibility of the OCAM to propose the names to the National Security Council. There aren't any yet. In order to propose names, the OCAM must have the consent of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. It is essential that the freezing decision does not endanger the criminal investigation. This may be the case to the extent, for example, that the measure must be notified to the person concerned and justified by specific factors. These are the main obstacles to be overcome. Consultations are under way between the OCAM and the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office on the basis of the new circular. On the basis of these discussions with the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, the OCAM must identify the categories of terrorist individuals and groups for which the freezing of administrative assets is the appropriate tool, taking into account the judicial investigation. This national administrative assets freeze is only one of the tools in the fight against the financing of terrorism, but it is a useful tool and we must mobilize everything at our disposal to cut off the funds of terrorist organizations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic400x.u25	Minister, you are saying that this freeze mechanism has never been activated, while the Order dates back to 2006, and that no name is on the famous list that enables it to be activated. I think it's very serious. It's even very disturbing. It is clear that since 22 March, and perhaps since the Paris attacks, we are more aware of the terrorist risk here in Belgium, but I think that since 11 September 2001, the whole world has understood the scope of this risk. I really wonder why we have never been able to activate this important tool in the fight against the financing of terrorism. Is it a lack of resources, is it an inadaptation of laws? You exposed me to the risk of intruding on investigations. It is to give a signal to terrorist candidates to freeze their assets, to show them that they are being monitored. Nevertheless, I confess my greatest concern about the inoperability of such tools. I will discuss this with my colleagues, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, who sit for our group in the Committee on Terrorism. I think that is one of the things they will have to study with great interest.
