ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u1	Questions Nos 11321, 11327, 11402, 11646 and 11829 by Mr Vanvelthoven are converted into written questions to his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u2	Mr President, Minister, Article 6 of the draft on the new permanent tax regularisation provides that neither the regularisation declaration, nor the payment of the levy, nor the regularisation certificate provided for in the current law will have effect if the principal, for the submission of the regularisation declaration, has been informed in writing by a Belgian judicial service, a Belgian tax administration, a social security institution or a Belgian social inspection service or the FPS Economy of ongoing specific investigations. The majority of us have talked about this this week, and we are doing everything we can to ensure that the law is adopted as soon as possible and that it can be published in the Belgian Official Journal this month. This means that it was intended that the regularisation law would start on 1 June 2016. In the meantime, that date has expired, so it might be next month. I asked you earlier whether you could guarantee that the so-called Panama Belgians, the Belgian taxpayers who appear in the Panama Papers, would not be able to make use of the new regularisation. You couldn't give that guarantee. You said at some point that if you had gotten those data faster from the journalists, there would be no problem. Of course, you can solve the problem by making the entry date of the new law on regularisation dependent on it. However, my question was the following: in the meantime, we have received that information from the BBI. How many taxpayers in the Panama Papers were informed in writing by the administration? At the moment, it turns out to be nobody. Is it not wise to make the entry into force of the new law at least dependent on sending those first letters by the BBI or one of the tax administration offices?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u3	Mr Vanvelthoven, for one part of my answer, I refer to what Mr Philipsen said about this subject here on 17 May. As soon as the BBI got access to the lists of the consortium of investigative journalists on 9 May, unfortunately, the underlying documents were not started. On 30 May 2016, the BBI identified 244 natural and legal persons on the Panama Papers list. Several preliminary studies were initiated. At this very moment, today, a meeting of regional directors is taking place to determine whether and what additional preliminary investigations will be launched in the short term. So the process goes as it should. Regularisation approval will be delayed in any case. The risk you are so worried about is therefore reduced every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u4	So, Minister, the administration is working on it. We shall see when the vote on the law on regularisation will take place. I can announce that we will, of course, press again to postpone the date of entry into force.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u5	Mr Minister, since 1 January 2016, the size criteria have been on an individual basis for business accounting and on a consolidated basis for taxation - this means that the number of companies in each category is no longer the same for both points of view - what is the tax distribution of the categories of companies: microcompanies, small companies and large companies? This issue is of particular importance to a whole category of players in the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u6	Mr Clarinval, a number of advantageous tax measures apply to SMEs, small and even very small enterprises. From a fiscal point of view, continuity has been given priority, and the calculation is done on a consolidated basis. For SMEs, Article 15, § 1 to 6 of the Company Code is used. For very small enterprises, article 15/1 of the Company Code specifies the conditions to be met for micro-enterprises. From an organisational point of view, the general administration of taxation is divided into three target groups: individuals, SMEs and large enterprises. The services of the administration of large enterprises have priority but not exclusive competence with regard to undertakings and legal persons which are referred to as "large enterprises". One of the criteria for determining whether a company should be considered large is based on article 15 of the Company Code. For the financial years beginning before 31 December 2015, the former Article 15, § 1, 3 and 4 of the Company Code is used to determine which companies are to be selected on the basis of this criterion. For the financial years beginning after 31 December 2015, the new Article 15, § 1, 4 and 5 of the Company Code will be applied to assess the size criterion of these enterprises. The estimate of the number of companies concerned cannot be communicated because of the short time limit for replying to this oral question. However, if you wish, this may be transmitted in writing at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u7	Minister, thank you for the start of this response. I would indeed like to know these figures. Could you send them to me in writing as soon as possible? That would be nice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u8	Mr President, Minister, in the context of budgetary control, you said that a task force would be set up, together with the Minister of Justice, and you would take the initiative to do so. You have just announced that discussions are taking place on this subject today, but, as I understood, within the organisation of the tax administration. Minister, has this task force been set up by now? Who's a part of it? What are the precise tasks of this task force or what is the job description? Is there a timing for the work? By when are certain results expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u9	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, you know that the decision to set up this task force dates back to 22 April, well over a month ago. In the meantime, we are discussing with the Justice Department some of the questions you have raised. We are also trying to select people and to highlight some aspects of the job description. That work is not ready at the moment, it is on going, as it is called. When we are done with this, we will, of course, report on it. Unfortunately, I cannot say much concrete about it at the moment. We are certainly trying to get that task force up and running before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u10	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I shall, of course, come back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u11	Mr President, Minister, we are pleased that a great deal of work has been done in recent years on e-services, such as Biztax, Intervat, Tax-on-Web and so on. These have led to a genuine administrative simplification in the completion of the declarations by an accountant. For example, an accountant can now focus more on the essence of his work, namely assisting the clientele in order to be able to take the least burdened path. However, there are a lot of problems with e-services on a regular basis. When a deadline approaches, a system sometimes fails and accountants in practice find that e-services are not accessible or difficult to access. The question is whether there is sufficient work to be done on this. We're approaching very important deadlines again. There are always times when, as an accountant, you suddenly lose hours because you are not connected or can get in touch with the administration. It is also striking that every service has almost its own design and uniformity in that area is missing. You are also, of course, convinced that more uniformisation is needed, as well as that the temporary inaccessibility of e-services should be avoided. While you still have time before the deadlines arrive, what will you do about it? Can we be sure that the deadlines can be met and that the services are available at the time of the declaration? Employees of the FPS Finance have also announced that sabotage or the paralysis of those e-services could be used as a form of strike. This is not in the question, but recently it was mentioned as a possible form of protest. Can we continue to work in this way? How do you see that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u12	Mr Van Biesen, you actually asked three questions: the two that are on paper and the third that you have attached to them. As for your first question, by proactively strengthening capacity at expected peak periods, we aim to ensure the availability of e-services. The application also indicates a calendar in which we clearly indicate the expected peak periods. In this way we try to convince users to preferably use our applications in less busy periods and avoid the busy periods. The experience already gained in the use and availability of e-services enables the administration to make an accurate assessment of the IT resources needed for the user-friendly and efficient operation of these services. It can therefore be expected that the accessibility of e-services will be refined and improved every year, not taking into account unforeseen circumstances. As for your second question, over the past 10 years, the FPS Finance has invested heavily in the development of services and back office applications. After Tax-on-web and Intervat, more and more applications were added to serve our users. The aim was to find similar applications, using a so-called style guide. Priority shall be given to extending the useful functionalities of the applications and, secondly, to the outer characteristics of these applications. I can expressly confirm that, in view of the available budgets, the computerisation of e-services is continuing. As regards the third question, a little over two weeks ago, I had a first discussion with the syndicated representatives of the FPS Finance. They have expressed their grievances. I am now speaking with the top of the FOD to see to what extent and in what constructive way those desires can be met. There will certainly be a new conversation within two or three weeks to see how we can respond to the desires and needs of the staff of the FOD so that we can avoid actions in any direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u13	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I am convinced that the Minister knows that good cooperation between the accountants and the users of Tax-on-Web, as well as the availability of those services, is essential. I also hear that more investment is being made in the uniformity of applications. However, I have not received an answer to the question whether the threat of paralysing the e-services has been transferred to you or whether it was merely in the newspapers? Was that mentioned in the conversations or did this happen spontaneously?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u14	Mr Van Biesen, I can confirm that this kind of threat was not raised during the formal meeting with the various trade union representatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u15	That's reassuring. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u16	Question No 11508, 11509, 11510, 11511 Mr Dedecker's 11518 were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u17	Mr President, Diamond Office is a department of Antwerp World Diamand Centre which cooperates with the FPS Economy, namely with the Licence Department and with the FPS Finance Department, namely with the Customs and Excise Department, to control extra-Community trade in diamonds. Diamand Office checks about 550 shipments of diamonds in or out of the country every day. Each shipment is physically controlled by 18 sworn experts, who act under the supervision of the FPS Economy. The experts shall check the weight, classification and value of the goods of each consignment and compare them with the information on the commercial documents. The three entities have been working together in a constructive way for a long time, respecting everyone's competence. In early 2014, however, the FPS Finance decided to cancel this cooperation unilaterally. The General Administration of Customs and Excise then decided not to follow the procedures set out in the letter of 14 June 2010, which formed the basis for bilateral cooperation with Diamond Office. Since then, customs services have changed their approach, leading to a drastic increase in the number of shipments stopped. In order to free them, huge friendly settlements must be paid for. The reasons for these interventions are different, but in many cases they result from a discrepancy between the value of the shipment as indicated by the company on the commercial documents, i.e. the transaction value, and the reservation on the value made by the expert in Diamond Office, the expertise value. Evidence provided by the trader to prove the declared value is in most cases not accepted by the customs authorities. There is also no provision for an administrative appeal procedure. Furthermore, it is very easy to import diamonds into the EU via a different access point. For example, cut diamonds can easily be imported via Schiphol, Heathrow or Frankfurt Airport, and then transported to our country via intra-Community traffic. These countries do not control the import of cut diamonds at all. Trade is therefore becoming much less transparent. It is a little more difficult for rough diamonds, but there are still five other points where these goods can be imported into the EU, namely London, Idar-Oberstein, Lisbon, Prague and Bucharest. Similarly, competing diamond centres in countries such as India and the United Arab Emirates cannot wait to take part of Belgian trade off due to the above-mentioned problems. Diamond traders who do not want to run risks in Diamond Office therefore have many alternatives. However, this is detrimental to the transparency and central position of our country in the global diamond sector. Minister, I know that you are aware of this problem. However, it is high time that we had an exchange of views on this matter. I have the following questions for you. Can you tell me what steps your administration has already taken to resolve the above-mentioned situation? Who has your administration been in contact with in this file? The customs approach does not seem to be in line with European rules. The reservation on the value made by the experts cannot simply replace the transaction value. A proposal for a new agreement with the FPS Economy would drag on for a long time. Can you tell me why that takes so long? Where do you think it's going to go wrong? When is a new agreement expected, as it is urgently needed, as diamond dealers no longer see Diamond Office as a reliable control body, but as a source of uncertainty and unpredictability? What measures will you take with regard to the transparency of imports of diamonds and the control of imports of cut diamonds? The diamond industry in Belgium is very well known, but the problem raised is that the competing diamond centres in countries such as India and the United Arab Emirates are waiting to take over that part of our Belgian trade. What measures will you take with regard to the legal certainty of this sector so that it can compete again with countries such as India?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u18	Mr President, Mr Van Biesen, you have rightly said that I am well aware of the problems you have raised. Aware of this situation, which was absolutely not constructive at all, I personally urged both the customs services and the FPS Economy, SMEs, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Energy, to clarify cooperation or, rather, the lack of cooperation. I can inform you that both administrations, after various consultations, have agreed to implement and comply with the cooperation agreement, the so-called letter of 14 June 2010 "in its entirety'. This applies to each of the parties concerned. I can assure you that I will follow that up and that, if it is respected less loyally or totally than it is intended, we will certainly intervene again. Correct implementation of that agreement and joint communication between the two administrations seek greater legal certainty, which was urgently needed for all market participants. For the sake of completeness, the control of diamonds is laid down in the Royal Decree of 30 April 2004 laying down measures concerning the supervision of the diamond sector. It clearly sets out the procedures for controlling the import of diamonds, including, and not least, the least cut diamonds. The application of the Royal Decree of 30 December 1993 regulating the import, export and transit of goods and the associated technology also offers full transparency in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u19	Minister, I am very pleased that the good news is that both administrations are working together. It dates from a few weeks ago, you said?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u20	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u21	They were busy at the time, but you say there is now an agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u22	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u23	We will, of course, follow that up with you. Colleagues, I know that when people talk about diamonds here, some people start sweating. They immediately think of Panama or something. However, it must be clear that the diamond has always taken an important place for us and for Antwerp. We must pay particular attention to employment and work in our diamond sector. Our fear of staying active in this sector has already led us to respond to the European proposal to reject our diamond bank at KBC. This financial sector is now almost entirely in the hands of non-Belgen. As everyone knows, where the pennies go eventually follows the decision-making power. Eventually, the real activity will go there. We must make every effort to keep this sector here, of course in accordance with all the rules and subject to compliance with all the obligations. However, we must continue to invest and work together in order to achieve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u24	Debates of the European Parliament 11538 by Mr Van der Maelen has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u25	Mr. Secretary, it's time to fill out the paper report. With this question I would remind you of a number of recurring problems, especially in order to avoid them happening again. I am talking about the fact that for the 2014 attack, a lot of taxes have been mispaid to the wrong taxpayers as a result of a programmatic error. Can you inform us if tax refunds have already been made on a wrong or old number for the 2015 tax year? Do you have complete control of the problem? Have the computer problems, the synchronization problems relating to a new account number, been solved for the following years and certainly for the new declaration that is now before us?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u26	Mr Van Biesen, the settlement on closed account numbers is, unfortunately, never entirely impossible. Not every beneficiary of a tax refund shall notify in good time a change in an account number previously communicated to the tax authority. In 2014, 52 456 returned amounts, representing 1.2 % of the number of refund claims, were measured for all direct tax refunds. The light boom in 2014 is indeed explained by the synchronization problems. I can add, however, that in 2015 we saw a substantial reduction in the number of returns, from just over 52 000 to 44 000 returns. In order to solve the problem, the beneficiaries of a tax refund via the tax bill were and will be maximumly sensitised to check the accuracy of the mentioned account number. The implementation of a change is simplified, including the possibility for a taxpayer to do so electronically via My Minfin. Three initiatives were taken at the FPS Finance Office to solve the problems of synchronisation and information problems in general. The synchronization between the different data sources with account numbers has now been effectively optimized. As regards My Minfin, a project is ongoing to ensure that the validation of an account number communicated by the taxable person concerned is also carried out correctly. After the introduction of the validation procedure in My Minfin, a project will finally be set up that provides for the migration of all applications in which account numbers are managed to a single source, being the application SITRAN.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u27	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u28	Minister, the FPS Finance gives taxpayers the opportunity to submit their personal income tax returns via Tax-on-Web. However, there are still many taxable persons who opt for the paper declaration in order to submit their declaration in the personal income tax. The tax return is usually sent by post to the official residence of the taxable person in April or early May. The declaration form is in principle only sent to taxable persons who have submitted a paper declaration in previous years. However, it appears that a number of taxpayers have not yet received their paper returns. Can you tell me when the taxpayers will receive their tax return? I am also informed today by colleagues and other people that some people have not received the paper version. Can you assure me that all shipments have taken place? Can you tell me how many taxable persons have completed their personal income tax returns for the last year submitted by means of a paper declaration? Are there any taxable persons who have completed a personal tax return via Tax-on-web in previous years and applied for another paper return a year later? Are there any people getting off Tax-on-web? Did you write that down, too? What measures do you take to encourage taxpayers to further fill in their personal income tax returns via Tax-on-web?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u29	First, for the 2016 tax year, the declarations were sent without explanation from the beginning of May until the beginning of June 2016. The explanatory declarations were sent from the second week of May, including until early June. The simplified declaration proposals were sent from 9 to 20 May 2016. Secondly, for the 2015 tax year, 1.07 million paper returns were completed. Thirdly, taxpayers who chose to submit their tax-on-web returns in a given tax year can always, via My Minfin, choose to receive a paper return the following tax year. Given the short duration, no figures can be provided on this traffic, but if you wish we can always go after it. It should be noted that in the situations described below, the taxpayer cannot use Tax-on-web. This is the case, inter alia, in the case of a declaration made by, first, a taxable person who died in 2016, second, a widower or widow since 2016 or, third, taxpayers who are effectively separated for less than one year and who each want to make a separate declaration. Fourthly, the administration is doing everything in its power to optimise the provision of services. For example, Tax-on-web has become a user-friendly and secure electronic service to submit the declaration. The data is largely pre-filled, online auxiliary functions guide you through the form, errors are recognized and reported immediately, they receive an estimate of the calculation and so on. In addition, Tax-on-web is also promoted in different media. From this year the access possibilities will be extended. I am thinking of the wireless card and a connection with a unique code, via a mobile application.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u31	Minister, you know the story of the interest-free loan and most taxpayers who still need to get money back. Each year there is a suspicion that a little more than one year will be taken in order to do less in the other year in order to increase the result. There is always the feeling among the population that those who have something to withdraw are usually the last ones to be addressed. Maybe that's not true and it's just a feeling, but I've heard things on TV over the past year about perception and reality. Perhaps this is also an example of perception and reality. It's something that lives with people. People always say they have to wait until the last day when they have to retreat. The bill will be received on 30 June and then a payment will be made at the end of August. Could you inform me if you had a second opinion on the system of refunds, because there were some problems with that in the past? Can you inform us about the number of bills to be paid to date for the 2015 tax year? How many payments have already been made? What amounts are we talking about? Can you inform us about the number of hit notes to be returned to date for the 2015 tax year? How much has already been paid? I suppose you have a table of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u32	How could you guess? I propose that you hand over this table for the second part of your question. If you have any questions, I would like to address them. As far as your question of intent is concerned, the figures are in the answer I will give you, but I will debit them for the record anyway. I would like to give an example to show that there is no such intention, and I would like to conclude by saying that 1.8 million returns to be paid in return for the 2015 tax year. For the period August 2015-April 2016 there were on 31 December 2015, because that is the underlying suggestion of the intention question, which is 978 000 55%. On the 3.6 million declarations giving entitlement to a refund, 2.2 million, i.e. 62%, were returned on 31 December 2015. I think that's a pretty good indication. I will also give you the table in which the figures just quoted can also be found.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I'll take a quiet look at the numbers. I will also have them circulated to the fellow bookkeepers so that they can reassure people in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u34	Mr President, Minister, it is my responsibility that, for the past few months, significant changes have been made to the FPS Finance departments responsible for tax collection, including:- the possibility for the taxpayer to design his clearance plan on the My Minfin site alone; - the establishment of a strategic table for revenue personnel defining the attitude to be adopted according to the amount claimed; - limiting the number of maturities to a maximum of three or four maturities per month; - the almost systematic referral to a bailiff, even for taxpayers who are already in debt. These measures are clearly aimed at carrying out the collection work with fewer staff, given the sharp downsizing of the Finance FPS. But these new methods may have negative social consequences. Minister, what rules does this strategic table contain? Can you give me a copy? What is the maximum number of monthly maturities granted to a taxpayer who fails to pay taxes at one time? Do collection services take into account the taxpayer's social situation before defining the number of monthly deadlines to which it is entitled? Do you confirm this systematic referral to a bailiff? After how long? Do you think that the collection staff is sufficient to ensure effective tax recovery (recovery of which significant delays are known) and, on the other hand, to adapt the collection provisions to the social situation of taxpayers? This double constraint, which may seem somewhat contradictory, is fundamental to the FPS Finances.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u35	Mr President, Mr Van Hees, following the recommendations set out in the Court of Auditors' January 2014 report on tax measures for taxpayers in difficulty of payment, I can confirm that the general administration of collection and recovery has actually launched, in some of these "recovery" teams, a pilot project on clearance plans. So it's in progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u36	Minister, is that all? Is that the answer to my five questions? I'm on short notice. Do I need to make my five sub-questions a full question? Mr President, I wonder how to do this. I ask five specific questions. These are not ideological questions, but specific questions about how recipes work. In particular, I ask for the maximum number of monthly deadlines granted to a taxpayer. That is a specific question. Is there a systematic referral to a bailiff? That is a specific question. Do you think that the collection staff is sufficient? To the limit, it can be said that it is a question of appreciation. Frankly, Minister, I don't understand! I'm asking you specific questions and you might tell me you didn't have time to collect information to answer them, but in this case, your answer is a way of saying "I'm not answering you". It's incomprehensible!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u37	Minister, a few days after the Greek Parliament voted for a new package of reforms to meet the demands of its creditors, the Eurogroup's finance ministers met in Brussels on Tuesday 24 May. As I understood it, the objective of this meeting was twofold: first, to discuss the short-term disbursement of a new tranche of aid to Greece, so that Greece could honour its commitments and, secondly, to discuss the question of the adjustment of the Greek debt. It is clearly on this point that the differences have been the strongest within the Eurogroup. The IMF advocates partial debt relief to ensure the long-term sustainability of Greece's public finances. And, if I believe the various articles, Europeans have strongly opposed them. You yourself said on the margins of this advice that there was no question of any nominal reduction in Greek debt. However, the IMF obtained a postponement of this debate and the press reported a debate in mid-2018. Minister, can you give us a debriefing of this meeting? Can you tell us more about the measures taken in the short term to support Greece? How will they promote support for the real economy and economic recovery? Are the new austerity measures imposed on Greece not contradictory with the aim of bringing this Member State out of the infernal spiral in which it finds itself? Given your opposition to any nominal reduction in Greek debt, can you explain to us the solutions you have put on the table to arrange this debt?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u38	Minister, my question is complementary to that of Mr Crusnière on the agreement reached on 24 May on a new emergency loan of EUR 10.3 billion. What does this new emergency loan mean for Belgium? What impact will it have on our budget? Can you tell us what Belgium's share of the new loan is? What is Belgium's guarantee for? What debt relief measures were agreed? At the time, your predecessor Minister Reynders stated in plenary that the loans we made with Greece were a good thing, because they produced a higher interest rate than the market. If we do not get the total amount back, then of course we will have to turn in a piece. The question is therefore whether the debt relief measures have an effect on the Belgian budget. What kind of debt relief are we talking about? The new emergency loan is also intended to pay off debts to the European Central Bank. Does that have an impact on us?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u39	Colleagues, last week's Eurogroup meeting, to which reference is made, had a dual objective. As a first step, the Eurogroup took note of and discussed the agreement reached between the institutions, the famous Troika (the ECB, the IMF and the European Commission) on the one hand, and Greece on the other, and then approved this agreement, which is a little the finishing line of what is called the first review of last year's deal. Secondly, the discussion focused on the restructuring of Greek debt. For the discussion as such, the Eurogroup was based on the scheme approved at the meeting on 9 May, as well as on the analysis of debt sustainability by the European institutions (Commission and ECB) and the IMF. The new emergency loan of 10.3 billion is not a new loan in the sense of an additional loan. I would like to make that very clear. It includes the second disk of the 86 billion ESM loan, which was agreed last year. So that 10.3 billion is part of the amount of 86 billion. It is not, therefore, a question of 96 billion, i.e. 86 billion plus 10 billion. It's still 86 billion. Following the first imputation of the Bank, I would like to remind you of this: EUR 26 billion is now an additional injection of more than 10 billion. I would like to clarify this, because I have seen confusing reports in the media about this. The 10.3 billion loan is therefore the second instalment of the ESM loan of up to 86 billion approved by the European Stability Mechanism in August last year and linked to the third macroeconomic adjustment programme for Greece. The payment of the new discs will have no impact on the Belgian budget or on the Belgian debt. The loan is carried out entirely through the aforementioned ESM, which has its own capital base and does not work with guarantees. As always, Greece will have to meet a number of conditions in order to benefit from this aid. The precise conditions still need to be defined by the institutions, but they will cover the implementation of the adopted legislation, the continued implementation of the privatisation programme, reforms in the product and labour markets, as well as a number of administrative reforms, certainly also with regard to the collection of taxes. I remain convinced that if Greece fulfils its commitments and implements all the measures taken so far, including many structural reforms, the latter will have a positive impact on the Greek economy through increased competitiveness, growth and employment. Any measures to alleviate the Greek debt will focus mainly on debt management by the ESM in the short term. The ESM will further develop these measures, examine what is possible and then, of course, submit them to the Eurogroup. As I said earlier, the measures will have no impact on Belgium. In the medium term, it will cover measures to ensure the successful implementation of the programme in June 2018. This concerns the reimbursement of the so-called SMP and ANFA profits, for the record, the profits recorded on the interventions made by the European Central Bank on the international money and capital markets, from 2017 to 2026, and the early repayment of part of Belgium's bilateral loan to Greece of EUR 1.95 billion. The latter will have a limited positive impact on the overall Belgian debt. The impact on the budget of any reductions in interest will be rather limited given the amount. The long-term measures will cover further re-profiling of EFSF loans and a capping and postponement of interest payments. Such measures will in turn have no impact on Belgium. As for my opposition to the nominal reduction in Greek debt, I refer to the declaration of the euro area summit of 12 July 2015 which clearly states that a nominal reduction in debt is excluded. All euro area countries are opposed to nominal debt reduction for various reasons, mainly related to moral hazard (the moral hazard) and equal treatment of other countries that were under programme (Ireland, Portugal and Spain).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u40	Minister, thank you for your more complete answer than the previous one. I hear your arguments, but I don't think we can be insensitive either to the people in Greece and to the efforts the government has made despite everything. We believe that it is important for a debate on the burden of Greek debt to take place in order to give the country some oxygen and enable it to have the essential tools to revive its economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed answer. You have already earned your spurs in the Greek story, and you have clearly expressed the Belgian Government's position there. I do not share Mr Crusnière's view, but I agree with the Minister's firm position. Indeed, we must safeguard the unity of the euro group and continue to work for the strict reimbursement of the amount lent. Today we certainly do not need debt restructuring or debt relief for Greece. It is important that we stand on our feet and try to put Greece on the right track as we are putting this country on the right track.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u42	Minister, during the Second World War, a few thousand Belgians misled themselves by going to fight with the German army, especially on the eastern front. As such, and following a decree issued by Hitler, these collaborators apparently receive a pension from the German State. The Memoir Group which brings together former prisoners of war and resistance recently drew the attention of the general public and the political world to the payment of this pension - already unacceptable in itself - but also to the fact that these compensations would not be imposed. Germany would refuse to provide Belgium with the names of the beneficiaries of this pension and the amounts concerned. If proven, this situation is all the more shocking as the compensation received by forced workers from Germany is taxed. Minister, do you have an estimate of the number of Belgians who received or received compensation from the German State after fighting in the German army during the Second World War? How are these pensions treated from a tax point of view? Are some of these pensions reported? How are they therefore treated? How is the exchange of information organised with the German services which pay these pensions? Do you confirm that Germany refuses to supply some or all of the information relating to these pensions? Have you taken or are you ready to contact your German counterpart directly on the subject? If not, have you asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs to do so on behalf of the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u43	Mr Gilkinet, I have no evidence to suggest that the German authority is withholding information about the income in question here. It should be noted that, in principle, the Belgian-German Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation signed on 11 April 1967 should a priori grant Germany the right to tax the income concerned. Tax-free in Belgium, income which is contractually taxable in Germany contributes only to fixing the tax rate for any other income which is taxable under Belgian law. Where appropriate, they are also used to determine the additional taxes on the tax of natural persons imposed by municipalities and agglomerations. Information from Germany and other States is transmitted by income category. Unfortunately, I do not have figures on the number of potential beneficiaries of these pensions in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u44	All this therefore remains a mystery since very precise information is not available. I take note of this and regret it, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u45	During the plenary session of a few weeks ago, we discussed a new tax regime for the sharing economy in connection with the government's communication. Such a system is indeed necessary and useful. Your colleague, Minister De Croo, stated that this arrangement would bring simplicity and transparency. On the contrary, however, it appears to be true: only uncertainty is created. Indeed, Minister De Croo stated that the new scheme does not apply to Airbnbs, although there are also reports circulating according to which an Airbnb tenant is covered by the new scheme when a breakfast or fresh sheets are offered next to a room. This is not really a model of clarity and transparency that everyone talked about immediately after the announcement of the scheme. You are here, as Minister of Finance, competent. I would have liked an answer to the following questions. Can texts be consulted on this? Could you clarify the Airbnb regime?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u46	I agree with Mr Vanvelthoven for a great deal when he complains that there has not always been crystal clear clarity about the treatment of these new forms of economy. However, the development of the new arrangement on the sharing economy has now been incorporated into the programme law, which we discussed and approved in detail in the government last Friday. Very soon, this programme law will be submitted to Parliament. I am sure that we will have very constructive discussions, certainly in committee and perhaps in the plenary session, on exactly what has been put on paper. However, I would ask you to wait until the programme law is presented. That will be the case very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u47	Thank you, Minister. The sooner it's clear, the better. As has been said, it is important that the scheme is there and that it is clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u48	Mr President, at the risk of Mr Van Biesen starting to sweat, I am nevertheless asking my question. Mr Minister, I have already asked questions on the matter before. In an answer to an earlier question about the taxes paid by the diamond industry, you only provided figures for the year 2013. I had also asked for figures for the years 2014, 2015 and 2016, all the more so because for the past two years, 2015 and 2016, you had subscribed an additional 50 million euros in advance payments by the registered diamond companies. It goes without saying that your administration has the figures for the advance payments paid. That is why I would like to ask my question again. What amount of advance payments did the companies covered by NACE BEL codes 32121 and 46761 pay in 2014 and 2015 respectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u49	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, you are asking a very specific short question. So I assume you will be satisfied with a very specific, brief answer. The companies covered by the NACE BEL codes mentioned by you made advance payments of 6.3 million euros in 2014 and 7.6 million euros in 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u51	Mr. President, Minister, the Disinherited Assets Act provides that banks and insurance companies must identify the beneficiary of an account or safe in which no transactions have been registered for 5 years or, in the case of life insurance, whose beneficiary has died for 1.5 years, the beneficiary having not been found. If this research does not succeed, the assets (unless they do not exceed 20 euros) must be paid to the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations (CDC). They remain recoverable for 30 years. As such, EUR 388 million were managed by the Fund at the end of 2015. However, as you mentioned in a previous committee exchange, the life insurance of the second pillar was held outside the scope of the Sleeping Assets Act. This means that insurance undertakings do not have to transfer the capital to the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations if the beneficiary (or beneficiary) is not identified. This is an important gap since it is not always obvious for a worker who has been active with different employers to have a full view of his group insurance contracts. Similarly, it is not possible to obtain precise information from the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations on the distribution of funds in disinherence based on the fact that they originate from bank accounts or life insurance. However, it would be useful to have more precise indicators on the reality of this phenomenon. Minister, how do you explain the fact that the amounts transferred to the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations were multiplied by 4 between 2013 and 2014? Can you tell me how these figures have evolved over the last five years? Why can the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations not provide a more precise breakdown of the funds in disinherence according to the different categories? What is in place to address this shortfall, if any? How soon can this be put in place? For what reasons should the assets invested and generated by second pillar life insurances of which the beneficiary or the beneficiary has not been identified not be paid to the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations? Where appropriate, when will such an obligation be implemented? How do banks and insurance companies seek beneficiaries and beneficiaries? What control does the state operate to ensure that this research is carried out actively? Do you intend to take a new legislative initiative in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u52	Mr Gilkinet, the life insurance of the second pillar has been kept outside the scope of the Sleeping Assets Act, as you yourself have indicated. insurance undertakings are therefore not obliged to transfer the capital to the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations if they fail to contact the beneficiary within a specified period. This does not mean, however, that pension organizations have no research obligation with respect to rights arising from a pension plan that have become payable. Article 26(3) of the Act (Supplementary Pensions Act) provides that, when retirement or other benefits become payable, a pension body shall actively inform the beneficiary, i.e. the member himself or, in the event of death, the beneficiary of the benefits due, the possible payment options and the data necessary for payment. Pension bodies have also been given access to data from the national register. Following the entry into force on 1 January 2016 of the Act of 18 December 2015 to ensure the sustainability and social character of supplementary pensions and to strengthen the complementary nature of retirement pensions, supplementary pension benefits are, in principle, necessarily liquidated when taking effective courses of the statutory retirement pension. In order to ensure adequate payment of supplementary pension benefits, it is therefore important that the pension organisation is aware of the time when the legal pension of the member concerned begins. To this end, the law imposes a number of communication obligations. No later than 90 days before the member's retirement, the organiser – the employer or the sectoral organiser – must inform the pension organisation in writing of the retirement of the member concerned. However, if the member has already left the service, he or she must inform the pension organization of his or her future retirement. This scheme is only temporary in nature since, as of 1 January 2017, the ASBL Sigedis will resume the obligation to inform the pension organisation. In all cases, supplementary pension benefits must be paid within 30 days of the notification to the pension organisation by the affiliate of the data necessary for payment. As regards the benefits to be paid following the retirement of the member, it should also be pointed out that, from 1 January 2016, a back-up mechanism entered into force under which the ASBL Sigedis must seek each member who has not fully received the supplementary pension benefits to which he is entitled after a period of 6 months from the date of his legal pension. Sigedis must inform the affiliate without delay of this state of affairs by mail and tell him to which pension organisation or organiser he can apply to obtain payment of the benefits payable. FSMA is responsible for monitoring compliance with the above-mentioned provisions of social legislation. On the basis of the possibilities offered by DB2P (second pillar supplementary pension data bank), this social control is organised on a periodic and thematic basis. For example, the FSMA examined the issue of unpaid death benefits in 2015. The survey showed that few pension institutions used the possibility offered by law to consult the national register or the information that the data bank manager, Sigedis, makes available to them on an annual basis. As a result, these organizations are often not informed of the deaths of certain affiliates. This implies that they do not then pay to the beneficiaries certain pension rights which may be due. FSMA was able to establish this by comparing the data in the national register with those in DB2P. It has confronted the pension bodies concerned with these findings and demanded that they take the necessary organizational measures. During this year, FSMA will continue to follow this issue closely. Despite the legal measures mentioned above, the risk that a supplementary benefit will not be paid persists: for example, if a beneficiary cannot be found or if he does not react to the letter of the pension organisation. As a result, a transfer to the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations is a solution to be considered as a last resort.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u53	Minister, your answer is quite technical, but you confirm that a significant number of eligible individuals do not receive the amounts for which they - or their employers - have contributed. FSMA conducted an investigation into this matter. I consider that there is scope for legislation to make this work automatic by group insurance. It is also appropriate to provide, as you stated at the end of your response, for the transfer to the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations. This could serve as an incentive and would prevent insurance from engulfing profits on the back of workers – which would be problematic. I thank you, in any case, for your interest in this question. I assume you'll take an initiative. Otherwise, I will introduce a bill to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u54	I would suggest that we deal with items 42 and 43 in a moment, but since some fellow Members have to leave, we shall first deal with item 44.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u55	Mr.President, Minister, as an appendix to their 2016 tax return, our citizens who receive it in paper format were able to discover a covering letter dated 25 March, signed by your hand and relating to the tax shift. On the one hand, we do not agree with your analysis of the tax shift developed in this letter, as regards its effect on workers' incomes in the light of the tax increases decided elsewhere - which our committee has still been able to examine - as to its effect on employment or its financing and the budgetary consequences of its non-financing. At the very least, it must be admitted that the information contained in this letter is subjective. On the other hand, to my knowledge, and as a member of the ad hoc review committee, this letter has not been the subject of a prior request for advice from the House and does not comply with the rules commonly applied by the House, namely, at the very least, that the name and signature of a minister cannot appear on a printed paper financed by public means, which, in my opinion, is the case, unless you have personally financed this letter. Minister, can you tell me if you have made a pre-application to the Election Expenses Control Commission in respect of this mail? If not, why? Why didn't you abide by the Commission's constant rule - and reminded members of the government by it - that a minister's name and signature on this type of document should not be mentioned? How many copies were distributed? What was the cost of producing, printing and mailing this mail?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u56	Mr President, I will be brief, Mr Gilkinet's introduction has, of course, already been said. Parliament has a special regulation on the control of electoral expenditure, which provides that notifications and information campaigns must be submitted first. This was done at the time to prevent members of the government from financing their personal campaigns at taxpayers' expense. I know you've been to the control committee on certain matters you've done. Firstly, do you think it is deontologically correct to send such personal propaganda along with the tax return, right official government information? Secondly, why did you not submit a preliminary summary note to the Audit Committee on the electoral expenditure of the Chamber for the issue of this letter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u57	Minister, I am not going to repeat what colleagues have said to introduce the problem. I simply add that those who use Tax-on-web also have access to this letter, because on the Tax-on-web site, the letter is available in pdf format. Minister, you're bragging about the virtues of the tax shift. Do you accept that such a mail is illegitimate in that it constitutes genuine election advertising and does not respect the neutrality of a mail sent by the administration? Did you ask for the opinion of the Parliamentary Election Expenditure Control Committee before sending this personalized mail? If not, why? Have you found that the population, according to a recent poll that I fully understand, is more than sceptical about the tax shift? If you want to be complete in the information to the public, I have prepared an annex to be attached to the citizens' electricity bill, signed by your name: "Ma'am, sir, in 2016 and in the years to come, a lot of things are going to change in tax terms. This is the result of the famous tax shift. Thanks to this shift tax, the VAT on your electricity bill increases from 6 % to 21 %. This is not a vague promise from the government. You will find that the amount of the invoice is actually higher. With the return on this tax increase, we can give new gifts to employers, which will allow them to increase the dividends paid to their shareholders. Please accept, ma'am, sir, the assurance of my distinguished consideration. Johan Van Overtveldt, Minister for Finance and the Fight against Tax Fraud."
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u58	I don't remember signing this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u59	Yet, your signature appears there. My last question is: will you attach such a document to all electricity bills sent to the citizens of Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u60	Minister, if you're looking for a communications advisor, Mr. Maybe Van Hees would take it. Why not? This could be interesting. Minister, many things have already been said. The essence of the problem is to distinguish between de facto and moral judgment. You can provide purely factual information, saying: "We have carried out a tax reform. This is the transformation of the tax scale for natural persons, this is the way we review the exempted quotas, this is how we review other measures that reduce taxes." From the moment you're purely factual, for me, it's information. This one can be piecemeal. If you do not take up the increase in taxes on consumption, for example, you may regret it. But what you are saying today may be considered to be in line with reality. These are factual considerations. But when you are clearly outside this kind of considerations, you are making qualitative judgments in the moral judgment and you are interpreting your reform by adding more personal analytical considerations, of which you know that they can be challenged, particularly in the context of the parliamentary debate, you are, of course, in another register. This is where, in our view, information is no longer neutral. You make a judgment with the information you deliver. Since this is a particular type of communication, a fortiori, it would have been necessary to pass the Election Expenditure Control Commission. Even purely factual information should have passed there, but a fortiori, a communication carrying value judgments. I believe that there has indeed been a lack of respect for the law, in its strict meaning, as it is, therefore, neither restrictive nor extensive. From this point of view, there is a difficulty. These are my incidental questions. How many taxpayers have received this document? I have just learned that not only those who still receive the paper declaration have received it, but also those who have access to Tax-on-web. What is the amount spent on this information? That seems important to me. It will be necessary to see how things should be considered at the level of the Election Expenditure Control Commission. For the rest, let's be constructive. It may be good to give statistical information to taxpayers, such as telling them, for example, that for 1 000 euros they pay, this amount is allocated to the repayment of the debt, such amount goes to education, security, etc. This could be interesting. That is, Mr President, the questions I wanted to address to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u61	Yesterday, I received a letter from the Election Expenses Control Commission, which invited me to be heard next Tuesday, June 7. Unfortunately, I will be abroad on that date. So I asked the president to find an alternative date. He just confirmed to me that it will be June 14, 2016. I will of course cooperate fully with this Commission and provide it with the necessary and requested facts and explanations. I really insist that things be handled as they should. That is why, in response to the naturally legitimate questions raised here, it would not be appropriate to anticipate the work of the electoral expenditure committee. That would be a misconception of the functioning and powers of that committee. I am sure that the questions you raise today deserve the necessary answers in any case. Once again, and toute transparency et honnêteté, I would like to answer all the possible questions that can be asked on this matter and of which you have certainly raised a number in the last few minutes, or at least try to answer them thoroughly. However, it seems clear to me that the regular channels and the competent authorities will be the first to do so, if I may put it that way. I would like to confirm once again that I want to deal with the dossier in the most correct way, so that there is clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u62	Minister, we will wait. I confess that, just after writing this question to you, I also wrote to the Chair of the Election Expenses Control Board to activate the procedures to be applied when a minister did not seek the advice of the Commission in advance. The procedure will therefore follow. For my part, not to mention the substance on which I have already expressed myself at your initiative, I find it useful to communicate at least once a year, if not more than once, to the taxpayers, to do a little pedagogy, to explain to them the meaning and importance of the tax, the way in which revenues are distributed between corporate and personal taxes, indirect taxes, to which taxes are used (for public services, for the financing of regions and communities, therefore of schools, and for the support of our economy). That would be a useful work. On the other hand, it is unacceptable to use public money for propaganda purposes, which I believe is the case with the letter accompanying the statement extracted from the register. I really regret it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u63	You are right, Minister, we have an appropriate body for this, the monitoring committee, and the issue needs to be discussed there. That is where you can take up your defence, and the Audit Board must then see what is best done with the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u64	Minister, we will wait until June 14th and you come to the Election Expenses Committee. For me, it is clear that this is what you have done, your letter attached to the statement. It's clearly electoral propaganda. I would even say electoral lies because it is lies by omission when one says half of a reality and not the other half that invalidates the first. I'll stay on that. If I can make a suggestion to you, apart from attaching an annex to the citizens' electricity bill next year, to compensate for your electoral propaganda, let the opposition draft the annex that will be attached to the statements!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u65	I do not want to prejudge what will be said in the Election Expenses Committee. That is where we can hear the minister. In any case, take it not as a warning but as an element to be paid attention to because sanctions, which may not be negligible, exist in the law. We have to be careful. It is likely that the context will provide a better understanding of what has been done in the Minister's communications team, but there is a real need to be very careful. In the event of persistence in this type of practice, there could be an even stronger reaction from Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u66	Mr President, Minister, on 18 May the conclusion of a memorandum of understanding between Austria and some seventeen creditors of the Bad Bank Heta Asset Resolution was reported. Among the latter are Dexia, which was exposed to €395 million. According to the information available, part of the memorandum of understanding provides for a zero-coupon obligation of thirteen and a half years. To enter into force, the text must be approved by two thirds of the creditors. This proposal must also be put forward by the European Commission. Minister, can you tell me, or at least remind me, when and under what circumstances Dexia invested in this Austrian bank? Can you clarify and confirm the content of this draft agreement? Do you confirm that Dexia is exposed to nearly 400 million euros in this case? How much would be recovered through the application of this agreement? What will Dexia's position be in this regard? Does she intend to settle for it or will she claim more compensation? Who are the other stakeholders? Are they, according to the information available, in favour of this draft agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u67	Mr Gilkinet, I have to make a history for you to situate things. Between 2003 and 2007, Dexia acquired positions in Hypo Alpe Adria (HAA), a majority Austrian bank owned at the time by the Land of Carinthia, which financed the local public sector in particular. This exhibition was guaranteed by the same Land of Carinthia. After the 2008 crisis, the Austrian State nationalised HAA and injected public funds into it. In 2014, HAA was converted into a defeat structure and renamed Heta Asset Resolution (Heta), whose mission is to manage HAA's residual assets. The trigger: a moratorium on Heta's debt. On 1 March 2015, the Austrian Financial Market Supervisory Authority issued a decree under the Federal Bank Resolution and Remediation Act announcing the adoption of resolution measures consisting of a temporary moratorium until 31 May 2016 on a substantial part of Heta's debt. On 10 April 2016, the Austrian regulator imposed a partial lease of 54 % on Heta's senior debt (senior debt) and postponed the payment deadline of the remaining 46 % to 31 December 2023. In addition, all interest payments were cancelled retroactively to March 1, 2015. Dexia, via its subsidiary Dexia Kommunalbank Deutschland AG (DKD), has an outstanding amount of EUR 395 million as at 18 May 2016 on the State debt covered by this moratorium, which is covered by the guarantee of the Land of Carinthia. In the second quarter of 2015, DKD made a provision for specific depreciation of EUR 197 million, corresponding to 44% of its notional exposure on Heta and 5% of that amount to cover its exposure on associated derivatives. Dexia was one of the leading creditors in negotiations with the Austrian State over the past year. DKD and a pool of ten other creditors have initiated proceedings to oppose this moratorium. On 15 July 2015, they brought a legal action against Heta before the Frankfurt Regional Court in order to claim the immediate repayment of their claim. These procedures are still in progress. On 21 January 2016, the Land of Carinthia submitted to the market an offer to buy back the senior bonds issued by Heta at 75% of the pair and the subordinated bonds, not held by Dexia, at 30% of the pair. The pool of creditors of which DKD and other groups of creditors with a blocking minority together rejected this offer as well as the Austrian Government's additional offer, which was also considered unsatisfactory. Dexia was particularly active in the conduct of the negotiations. DKD obtained that the Department of Finance review its original proposal and improve its restructuring offer. Concerning the conclusion of a Memorandum of Understanding with the Republic of Austria, in the meantime discussions between Austria and creditors continued and, on 18 May 2016, an agreement in principle was reached. The Memorandum of Understanding provides for the principle of the exchange of securities issued by Heta and held by creditors for zero coupon bonds, of a maturity of approximately thirteen and a half years, issued by the Land of Carinthia via a specific entity, which will benefit from the specific guarantee of the Republic of Austria and from a temporary liquidity mechanism provided by the Austrian State. Dexia is a party to this agreement and believes that it avoids costly and costly disputes that could extend over several years and the result will remain uncertain. On the basis of the terms described in the Memorandum of Understanding, Dexia could have a positive impact in its accounts of between EUR 130 million and EUR 140 million. The Memorandum of Understanding was signed by 72 creditors who own and/or control EUR 5 billion in securities issued by Heta, representing about 50% of Heta's total exposure. The offer resulting from this Memorandum of Understanding requires the agreement of creditors who represent at least two thirds of this exposure. The finalisation of the offer is expected by the end of September 2016 and is subject to the fulfilment of various conditions, such as the creation of a legal basis in Austria and an evaluation by the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u68	Thank you, Minister. We have not finished talking about this Dexia issue, which continues to weigh heavily on our finances, such as radioactive waste that will have to be managed for hundreds of thousands of years when we decide to close our nuclear power plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u69	Minister, the board of directors of Dexia SA, meeting on May 18, took note of the completion of the term of office of director of Karel De Boeck, managing director and chairman of the executive committee of Dexia SA. The same general meeting approved the appointment of Wouter Devriendt as director and the board of directors decided to appoint him as managing director and chairman of the executive committee of Dexia SA. Minister, can you tell me what Mr. De Boeck as Managing Director of Dexia SA? Will he benefit from a capital pension or any other pension benefit at the end of his term with Dexia? How high? On what basis was Mr Devriendt chosen to replace him? What are Mr. Devriendt's salary and contractual conditions as a new managing director of Dexia? If so, what explains the difference in treatment between M and M. From Boeck? What mission letter was assigned by the government to Mr. Devriendt as part of his new duties? In what form has it been materialized?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u70	Mr Gilkinet, excuse me already because part of my answer will be in Dutch. Mr Devriendt's choice was made on the basis of the quality of his professional skills and experience, in compliance with the requirements for the performance of such a function in such a banking group. It was made on the basis of a pre-selection of candidates, carried out by a first-rate recruitment firm: Egon Zehnder. The selection process was managed by all stakeholders, including Dexia's nomination committee, its board of directors and shareholders, in consultation with regulators, as is the case in banking matters. The final choice of Mr Wouter Devriendt was approved by the European Banking Regulatory Authority, represented by the European Central Bank - what is known as the fit & proper procedure - in charge of the prudential supervision of Dexia. The letter of order sets out, inter alia, the fundamental principles to be respected in order to avoid additional financial efforts being made for the States that are shareholders of Dexia and guarantee Dexia, by ensuring that the required resolution plan as presented by Dexia and validated by the European Commission is properly implemented. The letter of order, signed by Dexia's two reference shareholders, namely our FPIM and the French company Agence des Participations de löwEtat, was sent by e-mail to Mr Devriendt following the general meeting which approved his appointment. A copy of the correspondence was also sent to him. The mandate of the delegated director requires a driver's mandate, which was approved at the general meeting of 18 May 2016 for a period of four years. That mandate is renewable. Mr Devriendt resigned from his other mandates, such as the Hellenic Financial Stability Fund and as director of the Board of Directors of Belfius. Mr Devriendt was recruited under the same conditions in connection with renomation and benefits granted to Mr De Boeck. These can be found on page 56 of Dexia's 2015 annual report. This is a remuneration of EUR 600 000 and EUR 6 324 representation costs for the year 2015 for Mr De Boeck. I'm not going to repeat the amounts in French. These are necessarily exactly the same amounts. Mr. Karel De Boeck does not benefit from a hat retreat. He is entitled to the extralegal pension plan which benefits all members of the Management Committee under Belgian contract. This is described on page 56 of the 2015 Annual Report. The 2015 premium paid is 120,968 euros. The extralegal pension plan which members of the Management Committee benefit from under their contract with Dexia entitles, at the time of retirement, the capital component of the annual contribution capitalization. The latter represent a fixed percentage of a fixed annual remuneration capped.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u71	Minister, thank you. The Dexia case is clearly not a financial loss to everyone. But it takes people to manage the future and avoid even higher costs, especially for the Belgian State. I hope that your selection is good in terms of skills and that the mission letter is clear as to the objective that should be to carry this ship properly. It will take a few more years, and perhaps a few more CEOs, before this unfortunate story is over and no longer weighs on public finances.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u72	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Cassart-Mailleux's 11757 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 117, by Mr de Lamotte Mr Pivin, Mr 11813 and Mr 11832, Mr Dispa.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u73	Minister, public services can't do it anymore. We had the demonstration today in committee, where we attended a small demonstration of the finance staff, if I saw their calico. FPS Finance is indeed the government's next target, as the government has said that 138 million savings still have to be made. The Finance Unions undertake actions of zeal at customs or perhaps against the Tax-on-web service - according to the known declarations - with the help of which very many Belgians complete their tax declaration during the month of June. These actions are largely motivated by the lack of staff and resources within the finance administration, which no longer has the means to work. Such a situation could affect tax collection and controls. It can't last any longer. Minister, how do you intend to respond to the worrying warnings of FPS Finance workers? Do you confirm that these 138 million euros of additional savings will be paid to the FPS Finances? How do you want the latter to carry out its tasks properly, while ambitions must be strong, without these additional resources?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u74	Minister, on Monday, May 23, you met with FPS Finance workers together. On this occasion, members of the common union front alerted you to the consequences of staff shortage. This is in fact likely to undermine the proper functioning of this essential public service of which you are responsible. Workers' representatives highlighted the reduction in the number of workers, from 31,700 to 24,350 in ten years, and the number of establishments, which had fallen by more than two hundred units. The result is a significant decrease in the number of checks, while the number of checks per agent has increased. This development does not allow for serious work. On many occasions, we have already had the opportunity to address the issue of decreasing the FPS Finance framework and the consequences of these policy choices in terms of good tax collection, combating tax evasion and the quality of service offered to the taxpayer. The new alarm cry of the agents is a new call to act. Instead, the workers' representatives expressed their disappointment after the meeting, to the extent that they were present in this room earlier for visual action. Minister, can you tell me how you intend to respond to the concern expressed by the workers' representatives? How do you intend to improve working conditions within the FPS Finance? What will be the means of training? Given the importance and usefulness of combating tax evasion, could a moratorium on savings in staff and resources be decided?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u75	Mr Crusnière, Mr Gilkinet, a €138.4 million credit underutilization target was imposed on my department for the 2016 budget year. The Department will take the necessary steps to achieve this objective. The FPS Finance is taking initiatives to work as effectively as possible and thus to be able to allocate maximum resources for the achievement of its priority objectives, including, inter alia, the fight against fraud. Several initiatives have already been taken in recent years within the FPS Finances in order to achieve savings in a smart way, including reducing the number of administrative correspondence shipments, reviewing the use of recommended shipments, reducing the printing of documents, using SNCB subscriptions, etc. The CPS will continue to make additional efforts to manage operating appropriations in an optimal manner. An objective workload measurement combined with maximum consultation on core missions and ongoing updating of work processes should ensure that the FPS Finance, despite the challenges it faces, remains an effective, focused and client-oriented service. With regard to the meeting with trade union organisations on May 23, 2016, it is only a first meeting that I have set up with staff representatives to take note of their main concerns about personnel policy within the FPS Finances. The main point that was highlighted was the demand to reinvigorate the deployments and opportunities to change positions within the FPS Finance. This is a significant demand that not only allows staff members to work closer to their homes, but also provides the organization with a guarantee of motivated and competent staff in all its offices. Under the new status of State agents, negotiations are currently under way within the FPS Finances to agree on new specific implementing rules with regard to this possibility of transfer. Because of the importance of these rules, I wish to give every opportunity to the discussions that are under way. In recent years, the staff cadre within the FPS has declined and now has about 24,000 people. However, my services are making significant efforts to meet the necessary commitments, while respecting the authorized framework. An important element in this discussion is the debate on core missions. The operations of the SPF will increasingly focus on the core missions of the department and these missions will be central to the new functioning of the SPF, all associated with an efficient organization oriented results and clients and wanting to be an attractive and quality employer for its staff. The FPS Finance is currently completing a large-scale modernization exercise which, within the department, must implement a new functional organizational structure. In order to make this modernization work, special attention has been paid to the removal of obstacles. This transition phase will require further efforts by all stakeholders involved in the process, both staff and management. This operation can only be carried out effectively by means of close consultation. New functions need to be integrated. Staff members must take ownership of new work processes and new skills must be acquired. Training services play a crucial role in this regard and the Personnel & Organisation coaching services are doing their utmost to meet this demand.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u76	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. As you know, the FPS Finance staff is a high-quality, volunteer staff who wants to do their job properly. Unfortunately, he has already made a lot of efforts. He had to deal with many restructurings, not always easy, with changes in assignment, etc. Today, we have the impression that we always ask him for a little more but with less and less resources. The ras-le-bol is starting to go up. You saw him earlier. I believe that this represents the situation in the various centres, whether in customs and excise matters or in taxation. Indeed, the role of these agents is essential not only for tax collection but also for the fight against tax fraud. If this is one of your priorities, a priority of the government, I really ask you to give back the means to allow the staff to do the work they want to do, because, as I say again, there is a very strong will in them to do their job well. Now we have to take the bull by the horns, give back resources and, above all, do it in consultation with the union representatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u77	Minister, before you arrived, we had a very regular debate on this issue. We have received representatives from the workers. Personally, I have no doubt that there was something to do and that there is always room to modernise the FPS Finances, in particular through the provision of an efficient IT tool, through the organisation of training for workers. What has been in place for ten years is not that. It's really a form of service disruption. Specialisations in certain careers and opportunities for training and development have been lost. You are not questioning this because you are talking about a budget framework that you have accepted. Maybe at the FPS Finances more than anywhere else, they're fake savings. Each FPS Finance worker earns almost ten times his/her salary in terms of taxes each year. I think you have to fight for your administration. By agreeing to save money in this area, you're shooting yourself in the foot with the government. You are putting yourself in the difficult situation still described this morning in De Tijd. The president referred to it. The reduction in the tax collected and the difficulty of recovering the tax due are also linked to problems in terms of staff volume, career opportunities, training and computer tools. We have to invest rather than disinvest.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u78	Mr. Speaker, Minister, as required by law, taxpayers are expected to complete their tax returns annually. However, for certain categories of persons whose tax situation is relatively recurring and stable, including pensioners, a procedure known as a proposal for a simplified declaration has been introduced. As you know, this is a letter that contains a simulation of the tax calculation, based on the tax data in the possession of the administration. Citizens who benefit from this recurring procedure each year can thus know directly the amount to be paid or received from tax services. Today, there is no doubt that the proposal for a simplified declaration is a positive and quality tool for the benefit of our citizens. However, Minister, it would appear that this year, 23,000 taxpayers would not have received this simplified return when they were entitled to do so. The tax administration would simply have sent them the standard form in its paper version. Moreover, if I believe the information published in the press, it has been decided not to send any mail to the persons concerned in order to inform them of the situation. Minister, can you confirm the problem and, if so, provide us with the number of people involved and the reasons for this situation? Can you justify choosing your services not to warn taxpayers who were entitled to the simplified return proposal? What measures have been taken to ensure that this situation does not penalize the target audience, especially the most vulnerable? Finally, what solutions have been chosen by your services to prevent this type of incident?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u79	Minister, over the past few weeks, the FPS Finances has sent some 2.3 million proposals for simplified declarations to Belgian taxpayers. This is a good thing and a good way to modernise administration and save money. It is an interesting administrative simplification that facilitates the lives of many Belgians. However, 23,000 Belgians who had also requested a simplified declaration did not receive it because of an error by the Finance FPS. Minister, can you explain to us the origin of the mistake? What will be in place for those who were entitled to a simplified return and who did not receive it? Finally, the Spokesman for FPS Finance mentioned that a new procedure will be put in place to avoid further mistakes in the future. Can you tell us more?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u80	Mr Calomne, Mr Crusnière, this year, more than 2.1 million taxpayers received a proposal for a simplified declaration; 23,390 people who could have received a proposal, however, did not receive it and instead received the traditional paper declaration form. The target group of simplified reporting proposals is reconstituted annually, starting from all taxpayers subject to personal tax. This is a particularly complex transaction since more than 400 criteria are applied on several levels to determine the taxpayers to whom a simplified return proposal will be sent. In this case, this is an error of analysis, which wrongly excluded the 23,000 people who could have received a proposal. Dismissed persons have the same characteristics, i.e. having received a proposal for a simplified declaration in 2015, which included both benefits and service titles, and/or FTA (Local Employment Agency) cheques. Preventing citizens would have required, on the one hand, the drafting and sending of a personalized letter and, on the other hand, the making and sending of a simplified proposal for taxation. In view of the incompressible time-limits for carrying out these operations, the sending of the proposals for simplified declarations could only have taken place around the end of June, i.e. almost at the end of the normal time-limit for submitting its declaration. This situation would have placed citizens in an uncomfortable position and the multiplication of mail could have created confusion among the many taxpayers who received a tax proposal last year and who received a reporting form this year because they were no longer in a position to receive a proposal for a simplified declaration. In addition, the preparation of a proposal for a simplified declaration is, as I mentioned, a complex operation that requires many internal resources. Relaunching the chain outside the normal process would therefore not only have involved risks of error, but would also have been likely to disrupt the work related to the establishment of this year's reporting chain. After the reporting period, my administration will review the 23,000 cases and ensure that they are not penalized in any way. For information, to date, with regard to these 23,000 people, we have already received, via Tax-on-web, about 2,500 completed declarations and 207 are under subscription. At this stage, it is not yet possible to estimate the number of paper returns that have already been sent by bpost. In order to improve the process of selection and validation of simplified declaration proposals, different actions are and will be carried out. The rules concerned have been corrected. The validation process will be strengthened at different stages, through different profiles, to avoid misinterpretation and implementation. In addition, both nominative and mass tests will be added to the existing process to identify and remove possible discrepancies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u81	Minister, thank you for your answers, which shed some light on the problem. Errors can always happen, but lessons need to be learned. I was a little worried about these people and the fact that you told me they would not be penalized tends to reassure me. I think a series of people will encounter problems and your benevolence will be helpful. I take note of the fact that measures in terms of internal control and risk management will be implemented, particularly in relation to the rules that had been problematic here and in relation to the validation process. When we look at the figures, this represents just over 1% of the total number, but it is still significant for those who have encountered this problem. I hope that this will be in order and that this error will affect as few people as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u82	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic434x.u83	Questions Nos 11866 and 11923 by Mr Van Biesen and Mr Dedecker are postponed. We have not heard from Mr Scourneau, so Questions Nos 11874 and 11875 have lapsed. The same applies to Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lanjri's 11890 was postponed. Questions Nos 11909 and 11953 by Mr Vanvelthoven and Mr Van Hees are converted into written questions. We have not heard from Mrs Jadin, so her question No. 11912 expires. Questions Nos 11951 and 11952 by Mr Van Hees are converted into written questions. We have not heard from Mrs Schepmans, so her question No. 11959 is hereby repealed. The same applies to Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Debates of the European Parliament 1-1978, by Mr Gilkinet, is converted into a written question, as is Question No 1, by Mr Gilkinet, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and on behalf of the Group of the
