ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u1	Minister, this is a question that we never talk about. It concerns embassy staff who do not participate in the public service missions of the sending State, of which he is not a national. I am targeting Belgian local staff and Belgian permanent residents here. It is clear from case law that such staff must be subject to Belgian social security. In my written question, I refer to various decisions of the Brussels Labour Court. This includes, for example, translators, drivers, secretaries, cleaning staff. This is a simple application of the provisions of the Act of 27 June 1969 amending the Decree-Law of 28 December 1944 on social security for workers. In practice, I realize that some of the Belgian staff or permanent Belgian residents can completely escape social security and not be subject to it. What about the right to health care and benefits insurance and the right to a pension? When there is no Belgian social security coverage for this embassy staff, it is a violation of the law of 27 June 1969. It is therefore clearly a matter of social fraud and non-compliance with Belgian legislation, in the light of and with the knowledge of the State. I wanted to take stock with you of this non-compliance with the legislation and the reality of this staff on the health care and benefits component and on the pension component.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u2	Mrs Fonck, thank you for your questions. The Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 18 April 1961 provides that diplomatic agents are exempted from the provisions in terms of social security in the host State, as well as, under certain conditions, domestic servants exclusively in the service of the diplomatic agent. An identical exemption applies to the administrative and technical staff of the diplomatic mission as well as to the staff of the diplomatic mission, provided that they are not nationals of the receiving State or have no permanent residence there. Other locally employed staff must, in principle, be declared and subject to our social security as workers in the service of an employer with an operating seat in Belgium. Where the Embassy fails to comply with its social obligations and a complaint is lodged with the competent inspection services, i.e. the Social Inspectorate of the SPF Social Security and the ONSS, the latter may not enter the embassies and consulates as they do in other places of work. The authorization of diplomatic representation is indeed required. This does not prevent inspection services from conducting investigations. When receiving information on the non-taxability of workers employed by an embassy, they investigate with a view to establishing the facts and/or fixing the amounts due to the workers. They can check whether the diplomatic representation is registered as an employer with the ONSS and whether or not the workers have been the subject of DIMONA and DMFA. If the investigation confirms the absence of workers' declarations to the ONSS, contact is made with the employer to regularise the situation, either by mail or during a meeting with the Ambassador of the diplomatic mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u3	Thanks to the Committee on Good Offices, which is composed of the members of the National Social Security Office, the SPF Finances, the Directorate of the Protocol of the SPF Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, the Social Inspection of the SPF Social Security, the control of the social laws of the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation and of the trade unions, the situation of several workers has been regularised through an essentially amicable procedure. But the workers concerned can also refer the matter to the labour courts. Where proceedings result in the worker's social security situation being regularised, he or she has the same rights to social benefits as any other worker employed by an employer who complies with his or her social obligations. In the case of health-care insurance, in the event that the worker cannot claim his status as a salaried worker for registration as a holder because of the absence of a declaration under the Belgian scheme, he may use the other qualities of compulsory health-care insurance if the respective conditions are met, including the status of the resident holders, i.e. persons registered in the national register of natural persons. Since the government action taken in 2013 to end registration as a holder of diplomatic and consular staff in Belgium does not concern locally recruited staff from embassies in Belgium. It should be noted that a workshop for embassies on compulsory social security will be held on 30 June. This kind of event allows the embassies to be informed as much as possible about their social security obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u4	Thank you, Madam Minister. And on pensions, don't you have any information?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u5	It was too soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u6	All right. Madam Minister, you recalled the Vienna Convention and all its exemptions. That, of course, is not what I want to talk about. It is the situation of Belgian staff and permanent residents who, as you have pointed out, must indeed be declared and subject to social security. It is true that there are inspection services. But it's not that simple. Because sometimes, and regularly, they can't get access to the embassy. Secondly, there is the Commission of Good Offices, but it deals with situations after the fact. Some files have been regularized, but many others are not. Thirdly, it is also true that they can go to labour courts. In this respect, the State is well aware that some embassies do not comply with Belgian legislation. Good if we manage situations after the fact, but where some people don't dare or have the capacity to complain, it would be better to be able to take things upstream. I know about this workshop. It's good to inform the embassies. I know from a certain source that these embassies are fully aware of Belgian legislation and that they normally have to comply with it, but despite that, they knowingly decide not to comply with the law, and the State supports this in a way. Also, I come with two proposals. On the one hand - and this has already happened for the Indonesian embassy - when Belgian law is not respected, we can also go through threats of withdrawal of privileges to encourage embassies to put themselves in order. A second proactive mechanism should be considered: the accreditation of ambassadors could be conditional on the commitment to strict compliance with Belgian legislation and law in this area. Thus, rather than dealing a posteriori with the sometimes serious situations of people who find themselves without a pension when they have had a full career, it would be good to anticipate by requiring the State to respect Belgian law as all other companies do. That's a minimum, Madam Minister. I also interviewed your colleagues. The real goal was to stimulate the government to try to take stronger action than they are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I myself arrived later, but I did not submit a question. I note, however, that quite a few Members indicate that they will be coming later. If that becomes a new system, one can say that one will come by 12:30 to ask his or her question. Mr Massin says he'll be late. Other members also report that they will be arriving later. That way, anyone can keep their questions to themselves. I would therefore like to propose that question. 10025 by Mr Delannois lapses. Mr Delannois is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u8	Mr President, I had the first question. I am also on the Health Committee for a bill. How do we do it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u9	I'm going over the questions now. I've started again with agenda item 1. I note, however, that Mr Delizée has reported that he will be coming later, for his question No. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Other members have also reported that they will be coming later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u10	So they call me back and wait for me? Are I allowed to come back?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u11	Agenda item 1, which is the subject of Question No 1, by Mr Beazley, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) Mr Massin has reported that he will be coming later, for his question No. 9679. Mr Delannois is not here and, as has already been said, his question No. 10025. Mrs Jiroflée is here. I therefore propose that Mrs Jiroflée should now put her question. 10100 asks, unless she's willing to let Mrs. Fonck ask her question first. It's no big deal for me. Mrs. Jiroflée, do you agree?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u12	Mr President, you say that this is not possible because we are dealing with questions put together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u13	That is not possible for item 1 because Mr Delizée has reported that he is on his way. The song "We're on the road together" you probably know. I propose that we start with Question No 10100 by Mrs Jiroflée.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u14	All right. If anyone can call me back and wait for me...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u15	You will be notified by SMS as soon as Mr. Delizée arrives. The secretary's picking up his cell phone. Text messages are messages that can be sent immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u16	Mr President, Minister, since January of this year we have changed to a certificate in which the treating physician must indicate the start and end of incapacity for work. Now we get a number of signals from cases where the GP reasoning from the classic working week, namely from Monday to Friday. However, it ignores the fact that disability benefits are still carried out according to a six-day scheme, i.e. with 26 daily benefits per month. If a doctor is therefore of the opinion that someone is unfit for work for the rest of the week, he fills in spontaneously until Friday. It is then overlooked that a Saturday is a paid day for the sickness insurance scheme and therefore cannot compensate the mutuality on that day on the basis of such completed certificate. The result is that the employee loses one sixth of his weekly allowance. Even more extreme is the impact for weekend workers. Suppose the treating physician finds them sick for the weekend, the days they would have worked normally. In the past there was a report of a resumption of work, in this case the Saturday after; until that day the mutualities in a six-day scheme returned their benefit on the basis of the salary converted over six days for the intervening days. If the doctor concerned now fills out the disability until Monday, the mutuality can only compensate on Saturdays, so that even if this is an extreme case, five sixths of the benefit will be cancelled. I was wondering, Madam Secretary, if you are aware of the problem and what measures were being taken to eliminate this anomaly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u17	Mr President, Mrs Jiroflée, this is not a new problem; it already existed when I was a general practitioner. It's a problem, but it has nothing to do with that new certificate. I'll explain it to you. Since 1 January, the insured person must use a new model of certificate to indicate his incapacity for work to the medical adviser of his sickness fund. An important change in the part to be completed by the treating physician is the requirement that the doctor must state the probable duration of the incapacity for work. It must therefore reflect both a start and an end date of the period of incapacity for work. This certificate must also be used for any extension of the primary incapacity. As part of the introduction of the new certificate, the doctors have been sensitised by the RIZIV to the fact that if a period of incapacity ends on a Friday, the next day of this extension will be on Saturday. In other words, if the doctor says that you are ill from Monday to Friday and you are not going to consult again until the following Monday, the doctor cannot fill that out from Saturday, because he is not allowed to fill in a disability with retroactive effect. That's wrong, so he has to write down until Sunday anyway, where Sundays are never paid out. Then the extension runs from Monday. That was the case in the past, but now it has to be stated explicitly on each certificate. If a treating doctor fills out a certificate for the attention of the medical practitioner of a sickness fund, he must always examine in detail how long the insured person will be unable to work for him. The precise working regime of the insured person does not play a role in determining this probable duration of incapacity for work in the context of benefit insurance for employees. It is therefore not related to the new model, but results from the regulation which provides that invalidity benefits are to be granted in a six-day scheme. So what you said about that is true. A daily allowance shall be paid for each approved day of incapacity for work, except for a Sunday. The precise working regime of the person concerned does not matter. It is not legally possible to grant several daily benefits for a specified day of incapacity for work, nor can the person concerned receive a benefit covered by the benefit insurance scheme for the days on which he is no longer recognised as unfit for work. That really is a problem with the prescribers who have to be aware of their actions, but they used to be. We know that a certificate must not be drawn up retroactively. When it was a week, I always wrote until Sunday; if my patient could go to work on Monday, he would just go to work, if not he would come back for an extension. In this way one can write a certificate in honour and conscience from Monday. However, it is not possible to write a certificate with retroactive effect. But if a patient has a certificate until Friday and he doesn't go back to the doctor until Monday, then he will indeed lose a day. Everyone is aware of this. One has to be a labber lock to not know that this is important for the employee and for the patient. Again, it's not a new problem; I've always known it that way. It is a fact that certificates should not be issued retroactively. That can't even be corrected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u18	Madam Minister, thank you for the explanation. We note that we have received a number of complaints about this since the beginning of this year. Apparently, the patients have become more alert in that respect. I suggest that the doctors be sensitized. I don't want to call them labberslots, but apparently a lot of doctors are unaware of this problem. I would therefore ask you to make the doctors aware of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u19	There's a lot of guys doing great. And we can send mails or letters, but these must also be read.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u20	Mr Hedebouw is not present. His question No. 10133 is deleted. We follow the rules. Otherwise, I can do the commission a thousand times over. For those who are not here and do not say anything, the question lapses. That's the rule for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u21	Mr President, Minister, I would like to return to a discussion that we have had at various times. However, I would like to ask the question again explicitly and to ask for clarification on the matter. The question is about the structural reduction of the basic percentage of the employer's contribution from 32.4 to 25%. A distinction is made between the profit and non-profit sectors. This reduction does not apply to the staff of local authorities, especially not to contractual staff, as they would not be covered by all branches of social security. I think I can tell that from previous questions and discussions on them. In fact, three categories of workers were employed to work out this tax shift. My question is simple. What category are the employees of the municipalities, the intercommunals, the port companies and so on, who do not fall within the scope of the social Maribel? I think they belong to category 1 and therefore benefit from the reduction in the fixed social rate to 25%. If that were not the case and I would therefore misinterpret the measure, can you tell me what arguments there are to indicate that they are not covered by all branches of social security, as referred to in Article 21 (1) of the Law of 29 June 1981? I have listed the various branches in my question. However, I will not repeat them here. I have a few more questions. Are there, in your view, contractual employees of local authorities who are covered by those branches of social security? Can you give me an example of that? On the other hand, which contractual employees of local authorities would not be fully covered by these branches? Can you give examples of this? Finally, I have an important question. Are there no problems in terms of equality and unfair competition if a contractual employee is more expensive for local authorities than for private companies in the same sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u22	Mrs Willaert, I am happy to explain it in detail for the third time. Perhaps then you will be able to tell us more, I hope. The employees of the local authorities do not belong to category 1, the profit sector, category 2, the social profit, or category 3, the sheltered workshops, of the structural reduction. Local administrations do not benefit from the structural reduction, as is already the case, because their employees are not subject to all branches of social security. The structural reduction applies only to private sector employers. That definition is legally laid down in final terms. The tax shift, which forms part of the reform of the structural reduction of the employers' contribution to the profit sector, is intended to make Belgian companies competitive again. This reform is possible thanks to the injection of additional resources, but also largely thanks to the re-use of current resources, invested in the structural reduction of the social employers' contribution and in the 1% exemption from the farm levy. However, local authorities carrying out an activity in accordance with the social profit sector, determined by NACE codes, such as well-being, culture and sport, fall within the scope of the social Maribel, which, as you know, is a somewhat unique system of mutualisation of resources. Local authorities can obtain financial support for the creation of new additional employment through the social Maribel fund of the public sector. It must be said that this government has greatly increased the social Maribel subsidy. As regards your question about ports, I can tell you that the employers who depend on the joint committee of ports, in particular the joint committee 301, and who are registered with the National Social Security Office, do indeed enjoy the tax shift. They are private sector employers. The port companies, on the other hand, which are bodies of public law, are therefore also excluded. The port companies of Antwerp and Ghent are autonomous municipal companies and thus local authorities that are affiliated to the Department for Special Social Security Systems, the DIBISS. They are therefore excluded from the application of the tax shift. The port company of Zeebrugge, the company of the Brugse Zeehaven NV, is an autonomous public company affiliated to the RSZ, but also excluded from the application of the tax shift. I have repeatedly told you that this is the way the distinction is made. We do have a special Maribel scheme for certain boards. The reduction in wages in the tax shift has been done as it has always been in recent years, with an agreement from the social partners. You refer to the principle of equality, but that does not apply here. The division has happened as it always happened in the past. We didn't invent anything new.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u23	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. Thank you also for your explanation about the Belgian ports. That issue has become much clearer to me now. As you said at the beginning of your reply, I am not the only one who has comments. I refer to the fact that the private non-profit sector is favoured over the public non-profit sector. The private non-profit sector receives an additional flat-rate discount on all wages of 49 euros per quarter per full-time equivalent on top of the social Maribel, the low-wage component and the high-wage component. This is a competitive advantage of nearly 100 million a year compared to the public sector in category 2. I have not yet mentioned the joint committee 318, where a full reduction in the social rate is also given because it falls under category 1. There are therefore two levels of disadvantages for the public sector as they have to compete with those two sectors. I have heard in the corridors that this issue may be revisited after all and that work will be done on it. I wonder what's gonna come out of the bus. I won't be harassing you with any more questions about that. You have clarified a number of things for me, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u24	Mr President, Minister, this question dates back to March, but it remains topical. I believe that such questions will always remain topical. Two days later, when I submitted them, an answer was given by a journalist from De Standaard, but I would also like to question you explicitly. According to an estimate, this year's National Employment Service should spend 467 million less on unemployed people, bridge-retired people and time-credit than in 2015. According to this estimate, expenditure for the unemployed would fall by EUR 322 million this year, for the unemployed with farm payment of EUR 118 million and for the time-credit of EUR 27 million. Budgetaryly, this is at first sight good news, but whether it is humanly good news, I'm a little less sure. After all, I find it difficult to imagine that it is because so many more people now have a job. This will apply to a few or a particular segment, but not to everyone. The question arises as to whether this saving on benefits will not have to be compensated elsewhere. If people can no longer rely on benefits and have no job, they may be forced to apply for a living wage and apply to the OCMW. People who are in need of a break or a reduction in their professional careers and who are no longer able to take a bridge pension or to take up time credits may become ill more often. We know that the numbers of long-term patients are getting worse because of stress or burn-out. These people end up in disability and disability. We have already seen this from the budget adjustment, but I would like to ask you, as Minister for Health and Social Affairs, once again explicitly whether you have an estimate of the cost of incapacity for work for the coming year, an estimate of the number of days paid and the number of people who are or will be unfit for work. Are these numbers higher or lower? If yes, how much higher or lower than previous years?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Willaert, your question is, of course, very numerical. You could have written them, but I will answer them now. I will have to read you tables showing the evolution of the number of days paid. This is how it is recorded: not the number of people, but the number of days paid, the expenditure and the number of cases during the period of primary incapacity for work and invalidity. Of course, for 2015 it contains real figures, but for the years 2016 and 2017 it is estimates. The figures for 2016 and 2017 have also been adapted to the latest developments. The number of cases during the period of primary incapacity is not estimated as this is not used for the budgetary estimates for the following years. It is always based on the evolution of the number of days reimbursed. The days and expenses related to primary incapacity for work for 2015, in real terms, are 37 980 145 days, which amounts to 1.7 billion. For 2016, the number of days is estimated at 37 887 000, i.e. a small decrease of 0.24%, and expenditure at 1.691 billion. For 2017, a slight increase in the number of days in primary disability is forecast, namely 38 million days of incapacity, of course, it remains an estimate and expenditure is estimated at 1.6 billion. As far as disability is concerned, for 2015, this is 4.6 billion in real terms and 102 million people. For 2016, there is an increase of 9.31%, resulting in 5.1 billion and 110 million people. For 2017, there is an increase of 6.94 %. This brings us to 5.4 billion and 116 million people. Those estimates shall be adjusted. No one has a glass ball and we see that there are fluctuations, in disability with greater increases and in primary disability one year a slight decrease and another year a slight increase.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u26	Thank you, Madam Secretary. It was actually a written question that was very topical at the time. That is why I asked them as an oral question. We are now a little behind in the agenda, which means that this question can only be answered now. When the news came that the RVA had never had to pay so little, the news immediately also came that spending on sick workers was increasing. I think you agree with me. The only question is how do we do that? Is it important to bet on workable work? I believe that from the discussions I had in the field on the reintegration of long-term sick people, I can infer that we are also working on this. I think it's an important goal to see what the possibilities are there. I mean that sincerely. However, I hear everywhere the danger that we will not do so properly if we place too much emphasis on budgetary profit. I think this could be secondary. It is a good factor if there is a budgetary gain, but above all we need to get people to work in a sustainable way tailored to our needs. I think we will still be discussing how we do it best. However, we are afraid of that budgetary focus. It's at the expense of people. If that's the only focus, or an important focus, Mr President, sighing...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u27	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u28	...no, it was about something else. I think that we need to look at the way in which it is handled and, of course, it can make a profit in the budget. But don't let that prime. Let's talk about people getting back to work in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u29	It is not intended to achieve budgetary profits, Mrs Willaert. The aim is to reduce the exponential increase in the number of long-term ills by giving people more perspective and tailor-made work, part-time work, other work, etc. It's a positive story for me. It is a fact that we cannot maintain that exponential increase. He's been here ten years. It is, of course, very unfortunate that it is only recently that action has been taken. If we could have done that in ten years' time, we would not have been faced with the problems of becoming almost priceless for social security. It's either one or the other. Either we slow down the exponential increase, or we halve the benefits. That's the choice. I'm taking the choice to deflect the exponential rise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u30	Madam Minister, my question concerns the reintegration of long-term ill. The debate on this is in full swing. Everyone launches proposals on this. The starting point for everyone is, hopefully, "it's our starting point "that we are looking for a way of bringing long-term sick back into the labour market in a viable and sustainable way, when they are able to do so.' That must always be the starting point for doing things. The government agreement states that the possibility of partial incapacity for work would be examined. You have also commissioned the Executive Board General Policy Support of the FPS Social Security Office to launch a public contract for a study into the organisation of the partial disability scheme. That's very good. They were also asked to look at the possibilities of simplifying the system of cumulation of pay from part-time or non-part-time work and disability benefits. You also wanted a concrete commitment in the management agreement of the RIZIV to have the Knowledge Centre carry out a study of the practical problems involved in the current system of permitted work. After all, there are a lot of practical problems. We remain convinced that a performance system of partial incapacity for work would represent a major step forward in the long-term incapacity for work. There are already a number of possibilities. Part-time re-employment provided that from a medical point of view at least 50% remain disabled, a fairly rigid rule, but a possibility. Wage for part-time work accumulates with an invalidity benefit without the benefit disappearing completely. That too is a rigid rule. The current system can therefore be improved. We could build on what already exists. Madam Secretary, what steps have been taken in the meantime with regard to the two studies which the FPS would be carrying out? What is the state of play of the study that should be included in the RIZIV administrative agreement? To what extent do you think that priority should be given to examining the various possibilities? Do you agree with me that there are still important gaps in the current legislation? If we were to amend the current legislation, we would have a much greater potential for reintegration. How do you propose to overcome these gaps? By what time do you intend to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u31	Mr Vercamer, there is one investigation currently under way by the Social Security Office on the question of partial incapacity for work. The official title of the public contract launched by the FPS Social Security Office is "Research project on fine-tuning a partial disability benefit through standard simulation'. The project has now been awarded and started. It is entrusted to the University of Antwerp. The study also actively involves experts from the RIZIV. For its part, the Knowledge Centre of the RIZIV Disability Service is working on the protocol of a study on the practical problems of the system of permitted activity, so that the study can be carried out by a research group. The report of the study is expected in the course of April 2017. The setting up of the investigation is laid down in Article 15 on updating the concept of disability and harmonising the rules on benefits under the 2016-2018 Administrative Agreement. Why have we taken these initiatives? In June 2014, the Centre for Social Policy Herman Deleeck of the University of Antwerp published his latest research into inactivity traps in the transition from disability to work. This showed, as with other research in 2009, that the relative increase in output of work is particularly low in a number of situations. This applies in particular to single people and two-earners with children who receive sickness and invalidity benefits and wish to re-enter the labour market. According to the researchers, the persistence of income traps leads to the conclusion that an innovative policy is much needed. Before we take policy measures, we must first be sure that our actions will actually improve the situation and not create dangerous side effects. In addition, we must ensure that we do not go the way of the Netherlands with the partial incapacity for work in Belgium. The Netherlands is often cited as an example, but in this case the compass is a bit lost. In the Netherlands, the partial incapacity for work fell into the WAO in 1967, the law on disability insurance, when the distinction between the disability law, accidents at work and occupational diseases was abolished and all incapacity for work was now integrated into a single global scheme. From then on, a partial incapacity for work of 15% was sufficient to qualify for a benefit. This broad standard was the basis of the huge explosion in disability benefits that the Netherlands had in the following decades. I hope to come forward with concrete proposals in the course of 2017. I hope that they will have the same effect as measures taken earlier in the field of permitted work. In particular, I refer to the fact that, since April 2013, the right holders should not have the prior consent of the counseling physician to resume the work. Since the introduction of this measure, we have seen an increase in the number of current authorisations. While there were 26 772 in 2011, there were already 28 257 in 2012, about 30 000 in 2013 and about 35 000 in 2014. While the number of authorisations in 2012 was 5 % higher than in 2011, the number of authorisations in 2013 was 9% higher than in 2012 and was no less than 16 % higher in 2014 compared to 2013. This is proof that this measure works.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u32	This is true in absolute figures, but I would be much more interested in the relative figures. There is also an increase in the number of people in the labour market. I'll check this out myself. What I particularly welcome, Madam Minister, is the demand for an innovative policy and, above all, for practical improvements to a number of measures already in place concerning the resumption of part-time work. We really need to do something about that. I am your ally to agree better and more practically feasible rules in 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u33	Madam Minister, this is a follow-up question to a question I have already asked. If someone is injured after committing an intentional error, that person is not actually entitled to an invalidity benefit because it has been a deliberate mistake. This provides for Article 134 of the legislation on sickness and invalidity. You then confirmed that participation in the armed conflict in Syria is covered by the concept of "intentional error'. At the same time, you have said that there are no cases in which such benefits have actually been suspended or where no entitlement has been granted. I would like to see that contradiction clarified today with an additional question. Why are these provisions not applied? Are there just no known cases? What's going on to check that out? Does it have to do with the fact that there are some practical difficulties in collecting that information about those Syrians or returners? If so, will a number of measures be taken? In other words, how are you going to resolve the contradiction between recognizing, on the one hand, that such a person, if injured, is not entitled to a benefit, and, on the other hand, that there is no case so far in which this law is applied? I'd like to see this cleared up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u34	Mr Tracken, first of all, we have not been able to find out what you are basing yourself on in your statement that the legislation would not be applied to the cases of invalidity caused by intentional errors. Indeed, Article 134 (1) of the ZIV Act is one of the rules to which my services attach great importance. Moreover, there is no ambiguity about the rule, either in the legislation or in the caselaw. The RIZIV has always given very clear instructions to insurance institutions. To date, we have no knowledge of any case where benefits would have been paid to a returned Syrian fighter. It's about benefits from my department, so it's about disability. Benefits from the OMCW, that's something else. With the resources we currently have, disability benefits are controlled by various medical quality control filters. The peer review can ensure that wounds that may be related to war wounds are immediately identified and screened. By definition, persons removed from the National Register cannot claim a benefit. At this stage, there is no evidence that changes to the control systems would be necessary. It is obvious that if new elements appear in the file, we will immediately ask the RIZIV to develop suitable pistes to detect and intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u35	Then it is clear to me that it is being checked and that you have not found any cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u36	Madam Minister, as you know, one in ten Belgians is a close helper, so a million people. I think everyone will agree that they are both socially, socially and economically important. The helpers, in fact, are all people who, thanks to close caregivers, can be accompanied with a medico-social, paramedical, adapted and this allows, let us remember, significant savings for social security and for the State. A law that recognizes close caregivers was passed in May 2014. In the plan you have put in place, particularly with regard to chronically ill patients, one aspect concerns close caregivers. Ministers of health at different levels of authority had agreed on this at an interdepartmental conference; it was in October 2015. At a roundtable last February, you spoke about it again. It's now later. I would therefore obviously like to take stock with you. The law still remains to this day a beautiful shell, of course, but which is only terribly unfulfilled. Let us acknowledge that the removal of time credits without reason has obviously made the situation problematic for close caregivers, since many of them used time credits without reason, in any case for those who work, to be able to continue to help and be in support as a helper close to a helper. What about today? What's your timing? Have you advanced since October 2015? Could you give us some insight into the needs, if you have the measure, in the care and conditions present in the chronic sick plan that I mentioned? How do you intend to proceed? Are you clear now about the full declination of this law of 12 May 2014, on for example the maximum number of close caregivers per person, on the determination of the conditions of residence, etc.( )? What about the delegation of tasks between healthcare professionals and close caregivers? This also requires consultation with the federated entities. So, where are you on these different aspects?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u37	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank my colleague, Catherine Fonck, for having kindly waited for my arrival before asking her question. We are several colleagues who have been paying attention to the status of close caregivers for several years. Also, thank you very much for this understanding. Minister, as my group has already had the opportunity to point out, various harmful measures have been taken by your government with regard to close caregivers. I am thinking of the reduction in the number of months of exemption in the labour market and the abolition of duties for a series of them. However, close caregivers and families are essential actors in the support of people with disabilities who are highly dependent. This crucial role must be recognized. In this sense, the law of 12 May 2014 on the recognition of close caregivers was important. It defined the concept of close caregiver and identified the individuals who are part of this target group. But beyond this recognition, it is important to go further in the social protection of these people. This law is still awaiting royal decrees of application. The close caregivers have recently sent you an open letter, in which they say how much this first law meets their expectations and hopes. However, it is important to continue to realize the status of close caregivers. Madam Minister, I would like to know at what stage the negotiations with the sector, which complains, expresses an impatience, a mismatch with the reality on the ground. They say the negotiations would be at a standstill. They also indicate that you have received favourable opinions from various bodies, such as the Federal Centre of Expertise and the National Council of Persons with Disabilities, on this matter. They do not understand why this file remains blocked. I would therefore like to express the disappointment of the representatives of the sector and ask you what is happening to these negotiations. What direction do you intend to take for enforcement orders? Are there any blocking elements? Are there any particular difficulties? If so, which ones? What is the schedule you plan to follow to provide these individuals with a status and benefits that would be related to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u38	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, Mr Delizée, with regard to the implementation of the law of 12 May 2014 relating to the status of the immediate caregiver, the work has not yet reached the final stage. The draft texts in question have been discussed within the government, but a final solution has not yet been found. In the meantime, the Federal Seniors Advisory Council has already been able to provide me with valid advice on the enforcement orders drafted by my services. In addition, the Equal Opportunities Council for Men and Women is also working on this issue and has informed me that it will forward its opinion to me as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u39	Mr President, I should like to apologise to Mrs Gerkens, who chairs the Committee on Health. Minister, you have meant waiting for different opinions. I can hear you, but the government will soon be two years old. After two years, it would be necessary to think about implementing two aspects: the enforcement component of the 2014 law and its implementing orders, and the concrete measures component – which are of direct concern to you because they are within your competence but which also concern the other ministers of the government. I see three main chapters: that of care, that of specific or assimilated thematic leave benefiting close caregivers allowing them to have time while continuing their professional investment, and that of guaranteed access to social rights in health care, compensation and unemployment. This is clearly a third chapter. In addition, it seems to me that one could think of a fourth which would be a better consideration of the treatment of dependency at the tax level since these measures could bring added value to close caregivers. I plead that you, as Minister of Social Affairs and Health, should be able to give impetus to the implementation of all these provisions, both the implementing decrees of 2014 and the concrete measures mentioned above. It seems to me that you could pilot this issue at the government level to bring your various competent colleagues to fruition. Beyond speeches, actions must now follow to the attention of these close caregivers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u40	Mr President, Madam Minister, like my colleague, I have heard the answer. You now have three opinions, you say you expect a fourth one, that of the Council for Equal Opportunities for Men and Women. I hope he doesn't hang out. Having said that, the government has been in place for almost two years, and I can only support my colleague's request, of which I share the wish, that you can speed things up and make decisions. People are waiting. Families are almost at the threshold of exhaustion. You know the situations. They are very heavy and dramatic. All this time that passes without evolution necessarily creates despair among these people. I therefore insist that the consultation phase be completed and that the final solution you are talking about be able to succeed. We call for it, and you support it. I wish you could at least give us deadlines. Can you give us a schedule?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u41	I've submitted my texts. They're still under discussion. As long as there's no agreement, I can't give you a schedule. I worked as fast as I could. When advice is requested, it is also necessary to wait for it to be delivered. I have to stay polite.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u42	So I understand two things. On the one hand, this opinion remains with the Council for Equal Opportunities for Men and Women. On the other hand, I mean that there are texts but there is no consensus on them in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u43	Not yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u44	Blockages exist. There is no consensus.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u45	We're four. We need a four-way consensus.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u46	There is therefore no consensus in the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u47	This has always been the same situation. It is not at present a question of seeking consensus. Like you, I was also in the government before and I can tell you that there were also files that waited a long time for consensus. Nothing has changed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u48	In conclusion, Mr President, I therefore note that there is no agreement, within the majority today, to give close caregivers a status.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u49	Mr. President, I'm sorry I'm late. Mr Borsus had asked for urgency for his project concerning the individual path of social integration. Minister, the Program Act of December 19, 2014 provides for a maximum ceiling on the incapacity for work allowance when the allowance is equal, for the first six months, to the unemployment benefit unless the amount is greater than that of the incapacity for work allowance. For the unemployed who becomes incapable of working during the first three months of the first period of unemployment benefit, the alignment of the incapacity for work allowance with the unemployment benefit no longer applies because the amount of the unemployment benefit is higher than the amount of the incapacity for work allowance. This measure is a real machine to plunge people into precariousness. It comes to my mind that insured persons who receive a minimum amount of unemployment benefit and who are heads of household may, when they become incapacitated for work, receive allowances, the amount of which may well be less than EUR 40 per day. This measure leads, according to my information, and you know that I am president of CPAS, to a monthly loss of up to 300 to 400 euros per month. This measure affects, like many measures taken by the government, mainly single-parent families and therefore, in a large number of cases, women. CPAS are well aware of this situation. According to my information, they have asked you about the subject and have not received any reply from you to date. Pending this response, they intervene, to the extent possible and on their own funds, to help the people who have been affected by this measure. Minister, can you confirm to me the negative impact of this measure on certain categories of recipients of primary disability benefits? Have you been asked this question by the CPAS and what is the answer you gave them? If this negative impact is confirmed and if some social policyholders have to receive income reductions as large as those I have mentioned, what social corrections do you intend to make in order to remedy the real social tragedies caused by the measure? If you do not intend to revert to this measure or take corrective action, would you have the political coherence of providing specific aid for CPAS that have to remedy this situation, and from own funds, since no aid is provided by the Federal State in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u50	Mr Massin, as far as your first question is concerned, this measure does indeed introduce a maximum ceiling during the first six months of incapacity for work, when the amount of unemployment benefit is higher than that of the incapacity for work allowance. This could be the case for a beneficiary of unemployment benefits who becomes unable to work during the first three months of the first period of unemployment benefit, since during this period he receives 65% of his gross salary. In theory, the maximum amount that a fully unemployed beneficiary can lose as a result of this measure is EUR 81 for a maximum period of three months and only for dependants. This is a maximum example of people who become unable to work on the first day of unemployment and who remain unable to work for three months. I should also like to make it clear that this measure does not concern maternity insurance. It applies only to incapacity for work insurance during the first six months. From the first day of the seventh month, the insured person will be entitled to a guaranteed minimum amount of incapacity for work allowance, which varies according to his family situation and whether he is a regular worker. Thus, for example, the social insured person with the status of regular worker could receive 55 euros a day if he or she is dependent on the family and 44 euros a day if he or she is isolated. So far I have not been questioned by the city associations on this subject. If that were the case, I would obviously answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u51	Minister, you confirm to me that there is a negative impact that is possible, that exists, even if in your opinion it is theoretical. Personally, I can confirm that this impact exists. If it was possible for you to check either with your firm, but also with the administration, on a letter that the CPAS or CPAS federations would have sent to you on an individual basis, it would be a pleasure for me to get the answers. On the other hand, I note that there will be no corrective measures. Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u52	On the third item on the agenda (No. 10025), you were not there, Mr Delannois, but I will ask the minister to give you the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u53	Mr President, this is a detailed answer because it is very different according to the different kinds of ambulances. We had to look hard because it was a whole puzzle that had to be reconstructed. Indeed, for one person it is someone who is competent and for others it is someone else. We reconstructed this puzzle. It's interesting to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u54	Madam Minister, first of all I would like to make it clear that with my questions I have absolutely no intention of doing so. You will certainly not have that intention to fish doctors or to generalise. Most doctors handle disease attestations in a very correct way. Recently, however, some articles have been published in which stories have emerged about certain doctors who prove wrongly to write sick notes for healthy people who, for some reason, want to stay home for a day of school or work. This is also the case, among other things, for people who wish to strike, but who want to keep wages instead of with a strike fee. Of course, not all cases are always equally clear, but a small group of doctors are often no less well-known to the target group for their willingness to issue such improper certificates. Unfortunately, I also notice that as OCMW chairman. We often see the same names of certain doctors returning to files where we have many questions. Of course, the issuing of such benevolence attestations goes against all professionals who are doctors themselves. What is more, it actually harms the entire profession, which, in its globality, deals very precisely with that fact. The many doctors who do work correctly and respect deontology in this area are at risk of being discredited by recent reports. Think of the discussion following the strikes at Belgocontrol and, more recently, the guard strike. In my opinion, a doctor has obligations not only with regard to the individual patient, but also with regard to the whole of society. When, for example, strikers are given such benevolence attestations in order not to lose a wage, we believe that these doctors contribute indirectly to social fraud. It is therefore absolutely unacceptable in all areas. I'm not asking for a manhunt. However, it is a fact that the current controls are carried out mainly in the patients themselves. A recent study in this context has been addressed in another question and has been published in De Tijd. It concerns the 2015 figures of the control doctors, which showed that 21 000 patients had been sent back to work. In particular, there would be a problem with certificates issued for longer periods of time. The control doctors themselves stated that the ease with which some doctors prescribe disease attestations at least raises questions. The control doctors will, of course, examine the patient first and foremost in order to determine whether or not the patient is wrongly at home. With my question I want to focus on what happens to doctors whose name keeps popping up in connection with improper prescription behaviour. If it really is a manifest misuse of prescriptive behaviour, do the control doctors have a role to play in this? Do they? In this context, the supervisory doctors are not in an obvious position. Since they would have to indicate whether or not to signal this, it is not obvious for auditors, who are already in a difficult position. Madam Secretary, what slopes do you consider possible to prevent the manifest misuse of disease attestations? The Order of Doctors is already playing a major role in this today. Can that role be increased? Or can the DGEC's control function be provided in this? A profile is kept of each doctor. Is it possible, for example, to link the number of sick days prescribed per doctor so that one can look at the large anomalies? What other options do you see? How many doctors were sanctioned in 2015 for wrongly certifying sick days? What sanctions have they received? As far as certificates of long-term incompetence are concerned, do you see any way to give some more guidelines on how best to deal with them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u55	Mrs Van Peel, the problem extends beyond the powers of the RIZIV and the Medical Evaluation and Control Service, which are only competent under compulsory sickness and invalidity insurance. A distinction must be made between the different types of certificates of incapacity for work which can be drawn up by a doctor. A doctor may draw up a certificate for the employer during the period of the guaranteed wage. The doctors who control patients with guaranteed pay, thus the control doctors, can be used to suspect social fraud or simply to check. The main players are Certimed, Securex, Partena and Mediwe. There is an analogue system for civil servants, Medex. The data relating to short-term certificates of incapacity for work, which is the context in which the vast majority of the goodwill attestations are situated, are not to be found in a centralised database, which makes a structured approach to the problem difficult. Moreover, a global approach is needed. There is currently no body capable of dealing in a structural way with the problem of qualifications during the period of guaranteed pay. Only the Order of Doctors has the power to do so, based on medical deontology, where sanctions can be imposed, from a temporary suspension to even the final deletion of the list. In addition, the preparation of goodwill attestations may give rise to criminal prosecution for false writing and use of them, or fraud in social law, in accordance with Articles 232 to 235 of the Social Criminal Code, which provides for a level 4 sanction, Article 101 of the Social Criminal Code, including a possible term of imprisonment from six months to three years. The doctor shall also draw up a certificate for the medical adviser of the sickness fund to which the observer is affiliated if the duration of his incapacity for work exceeds the period of guaranteed pay. The model of that certificate is laid down by law and contains a medical diagnosis for reasons. The medical adviser may intervene during the period of primary incapacity for work if he has concerns about the medical justification. He may contact the prescriber to obtain further information. He may also call on the insured person for an examination and for an assessment of the incapacity for work. If the incapacity for work proves to be unjustified, the consultant may terminate the recognition. The RIZIV is competent for the control of the State of incapacity for work which gives rise to the intervention of compulsory sickness and invalidity insurance. The Medical Evaluation and Control Service has only a competence in this respect with regard to the control of the functioning of the health care and benefits advisory doctors. For this purpose, the department has information on the benefits in the primary incapacity for work and therefore produces profiles on the functioning of the counsellors and prescribers of the incapacity for work. The Medical Evaluation and Control Service is developing a system of risk analysis by increasing the reliability of data fluxes from the insurance institutions. At the moment there is a field study in progress with a selected group of prescribers of incapacity for work. It is done by crossing data and detecting sudden increases or local problems targeted controls. This will, of course, produce much more results; in 2014 and 2015, no suspicious benevolence test was reported by the Medical Evaluation and Control Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u56	Madam Minister, I was afraid of that last sentence, because that proves that there is no sight of it today. It is good that some initiatives are being taken. In any case, there is the annoying phenomenon that audit doctors should check and report colleagues. Now only the patient is checked, which of course is necessary. I speak from my own experience. We see certain names coming back, which are known to be involved in social fraud. Mrs De Coninck, whom I see nodding, will see that much more than I have. It is really a big problem that doctors are not addressed by anything or anyone in this area. They're just a few rotten apples, but they're rotten apples. It can legally, as you say, but who will report them? So I would like to ask again whether it is not possible to take bigger steps or to sensitize the Order? After all, there are many issues to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u57	Madam Secretary, the key to the hospital response contribution would be adjusted. According to the current distribution key, the invoice of what is now called DIBISS is not fully covered by different healthcare organisations. Through the Dome Zorgnet all healthcare organisations formally ask that the key be reviewed and become fairer. Where are we on the redrafting of the key? When exactly does it come into operation? What changes are being made to ensure that the distribution key is more equitable? What is the additional amount allocated to it? At present, several health care institutions go in red by not covering the contribution to the invoice. If that is reviewed and drawn equally, I assume there are additional costs involved. Was there a simulation in your model of the effect of the custom key, translated into individual hospitals, so that there are no more institutions where the contribution does not cover the invoice? According to that simulation, are there any hospitals that need to pay off more? Which ones exactly are they?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u58	Mrs Van Camp, I assume you are referring to the distribution of the envelope provided for in the tax shift. From that envelope, 5% was allocated to hospitals. The new distribution key within a new line 19105 in the budget for the financial resources takes into account only the burden of responding to the public and private hospitals that hospital staff have received from a member of DIBISS. The distribution arrangements within the existing lines were not affected. This new rule will enter into force on 1 July 2016, i.e. next month, and the allocation of the available budget will take place in proportion to the amount of hospital response to the total burden of the hospitals concerned. An amount of EUR 10.5 million will be distributed among the hospitals that have responsibility costs, depending on their weight in the total response burden. This is a new budget line within the BFM, which is why all hospitals that pay responsibility contributions are getting better.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u59	They are improving, but is it also guaranteed that the full invoice will be covered in the new model for all hospitals?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u60	I really don't know, and I'm gonna have to check it out. For that, we need to look at each hospital in detail, and that is a big job. The distribution has been made so that everyone, compared to the previous arrangement, is improving. That does not mean that the entire invoice will be covered, because you know there was a whole catching-up operation to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u61	Yeah, that's right. That's a lot of improvement. I also have a written question on the concrete figures, so I will follow the dossier further along that path.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u62	Mr. President, Minister, we passed together the Volunteer Rights Act enacted on July 3, 2005. The Act introduced the obligation for voluntary associations to take out insurance in respect of civil liability. In order to allow small associations to subscribe free of charge to this compulsory insurance, the then Secretary of State in charge of the National Lottery, Bruno Tobback, had provided the latter with an annual budget in order to finance collective insurance for volunteers, at a maximum of 200 days per volunteer per calendar year. Last October, I asked you to take stock, ten years after the entry into force of the said law, particularly with regard to insurance. At the time, you referred me to your colleague the Minister of Budget, Mrs Wilmès, who had just taken up office. I had found that this envelope was no longer in use or was, in any case, too little known and under-exploited by associations or volunteers working for them. On November 18, 2015, I asked Ms. Wilmès so that she could give me the figures since you told me you had no information about the number of volunteers covered, the number of days, the allocation of the envelope of the National Lottery. She told me that since the introduction of the system in 2006, EUR 3 450 000 had been made available to the provinces to help associations and volunteers according to the following distribution: EUR 850,000 in 2006, EUR 1 million in 2007, EUR 850,000 in 2008, EUR 750 000 in 2009. She also informed me that, since 2010, there had been no specific budget since the system was no longer fed. Minister, you have not been in charge of Social Affairs and therefore volunteers since 2010, but since October 2014. Still, the system is no longer powered, it no longer works. So, can you tell me if any contacts have been made with, in particular, the provinces that act as intermediaries for these cases or with the National Lottery? Indeed, the system in question is currently being shut down because of a lack of resources. And, Madam Minister, do you share these findings? If so, what initiatives do you intend to take to continue providing financial support, in accordance with the 2005 law, to small associations so that they can also benefit from compulsory liability insurance for their volunteers? Finally, I understand that this 200-day rule has been called into question. Personally, I've been challenging it since the start. Large associations, which employ a large number of volunteers, quickly exceed these 200 days and can no longer use the system. Should we not review the terms and conditions? Once a budget can be put in place, since this is no longer the case, regular information should be disseminated to enable associations to make effective use of this possibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u63	Mr. Delizée, it is nice of you to have detected the problem in 2010 and to have waited until today to reserve it for me! The collective police presented by the provinces, with the support of the National Lottery, aims, above all, at the temporary and occasional activities of the associations. This is an insurance contract created and proposed by the provinces. The National Lottery serves as a source of funding. The duty to provide insurance information applies to municipalities and provinces. This is therefore not a matter for me, but I confirm that there are still reservations and that the system is not going to go out. It is therefore still possible to use them to enable certain small associative structures to benefit from civil liability insurance for voluntary activities. Of course, to benefit from this insurance, it must be sought. Associations may have other sources of funding. But, in any case, I repeat that the system is not in the process of extinction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u64	Minister, thank you for your answer. I note that reservations would be available, but I note, like you, that the system, for reasons that need to be analysed, is no longer working. Why were so many amounts made available until 2009 and, from a certain point on, that was no longer the case? I think, joining my next question on the evaluation of the legislation, that you need to take an initiative to re-launch the mechanism to inform the provinces about these opportunities, in order to re-energize the system, which seems to have lacked follow-up. It is important to analyse the causes. Apparently, there are no more files today or very few. I have no information other than the information I have just mentioned. It would be important to review this 200-day rule. You did not answer me on this point. I think it will be discussed in the debate on evaluation. The system will also need to be refuelled. Indeed, if the pump starts again, it will be necessary to refuel the system via the National Lottery. It is also a political decision to be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u65	On October 20, 2015, you gave a beautiful speech at the launch of the study on volunteerism by the King Baudouin Foundation. This study is very interesting. As a co-author of the law at the time, you had raised a number of points in front of the entire sector present and concerned, including an evaluation ten years after the law was applied. The evaluation had been considered and announced. We are in 2016, 11 years after its adoption. In a previous question, you told me that the High Council of Volunteers had set up two working groups. One was responsible for identifying the positive and negative or problematic aspects of law enforcement, i.e. assessing the strengths and weaknesses of the system. A second group had to analyse the possibilities of possibly raising the ceilings for volunteers' allowances – since there are requests in this sense – and to create, alongside the status of volunteer, a specific status for so-called semi-agoral activities, thus the grey zone. At the time, I also asked you, as well as the chairman of the committee, whether you agreed that we should have a debate on the basis of the assessment of the Supreme Council after ten years of application of the law. Are you still in favour of this debate, or will we address it through multiple parliamentary questions? What conclusions do you draw at this stage from the opinion of the Higher Council? In this process, were all representative associations, in their diversity, able to be heard prior to the preparation of this report and how was this report produced? Are you still available for this debate on the evaluation of the law in this commission? I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that – and this is important – some social beneficiaries wishing to volunteer are sometimes hindered in their initiative to engage as volunteers. The question therefore arises as to whether the spirit of the law is respected in administrative procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u66	On 3 May, the High Council of Volunteers sent me its opinion on the evaluation of the Law of 3 July 2005 on the rights of volunteers. He should also have forwarded his opinion to you in the meantime as well as to the other members of the Committee on Social Affairs. This opinion is also available on the Commission's website. You will have found that the preface of the adopted methodology is discussed. Numerous meetings and consultations of associations and experts have taken place. At these meetings, all associations forming part of the actual or alternate members of the Higher Council were able to present their views. In the meantime, I have instructed the administration to analyse in more detail the recommendations made with a view to making a list of what needs to be adapted, according to which norms of law - i.e. through a royal decree, a circular - and by the minister responsible for this matter. This is not just about my skills, but I want to do the job for colleagues as long as it's still coordinated. As you can read, the evaluation contains many recommendations. I have asked the Higher Council, which it considers to be a priority, and to tell us which are the most important priorities, which are in the second line. That's how we can move forward, but we can't start doing each other before the other. With respect to the part of semi-agoral work, I also asked my administration to check how to put it into practice. The question of voluntary activity by unemployed persons is discussed on page 13 of the opinion, where the Higher Council proposes the abolition of the reporting obligation to the ONEM. This proposal will undoubtedly need to be discussed with my colleague Minister Peeters in charge of employment and unemployment and whether the ONEM is still the body responsible for this. I am, of course, always prepared to discuss this assessment in the Committee on Social Affairs, but as I said, there are several recommendations that do not fall within my remit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u67	I confirm that I have received the opinion and I assume that colleagues have received it as well. I confirm that this is a cross-cutting issue and I want to point out, Madam Minister, that the parliamentary process has been a long one. It took 27 social affairs committees to reach the final vote. These 27 commissions were distributed over five years and two legislatures, precisely because of this cross-cutting nature and the expertise of multiple colleagues. Nevertheless, with the goodwill of each other and with collaboration...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u68	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u69	But I pointed it out. I have already said it twice and I do not fail to report it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u70	We did it both of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u71	We were half a dozen, I think. I don't fail to report it. Today, if everything is not within your competence, you have this coordinating and matching role. I think you have to do this, of course, with the High Council, which is also within your purview. What I keep from it is your availability to have this evaluation debate with the Supreme Council. I think after more than 10 years, this is the right time to do it. Mr President, I propose that when the most important things have been adopted in the coming year, we can find the time. Because if I would ask about 20 questions about the content of the opinion, I think it may not be the right way to address the problem. I would prefer to have a time with the representatives of the Higher Council, perhaps, to hear them on their priorities, and see how we can get things back on track. I've taken the example of insurance, you're also talking about ONEM, and you're admitting that we'd probably have to review things a little bit. In 11 years, things have changed, both in terms of skills and in many areas, and also in terms of practice. Now it is necessary to draw on the practice of the field to try to have this law evaluated, either by amending it, with complementary orders, or by tightening the bolts if necessary with certain administrations. It is also an invitation, Mr President, to organise the work of this committee for the next parliamentary re-entry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u72	Mr President, my question concerns the procedure for the reintegration of long-term patients. Madam Minister, in order to curb the number of long-term illness cases, you have decided to launch a personalized procedure for the follow-up of patients via a questionnaire. Implementation could take place during the summer. In your opinion, this new system consists of a personalized approach to the sick worker. After two months of absence, workers absent for illness will receive a form. On the basis of this document, a doctor will assess whether the worker can be accompanied in suitable work. For those who will not be able to return to work in such a short time, no reintegration project will be launched. Therefore, after six months, those patients who have not returned to work will receive a new questionnaire and will meet with a staff member of the health insurance fund. During this interview, the procedure for returning the sick person to work will be considered. This project is an alternative to the government agreement that wanted to remove some of the allowances for patients who refused to cooperate. It was under pressure from the Group of Ten that the government abandoned the possibility of sanctions. Today, with the system you are proposing, you are not yet considering such sanctions, but you believe that if the budgetary objectives are not achieved, sanctions can be applied. In addition, the system also envisages an accountability of employers in the event that budgetary targets are not met. For the time being, the employer pays sick employees only for the first month of pay. If necessary, they would be asked to pay part of the sickness benefit. We really have the impression that your new project is a hijacked way of reaching the basic idea contained in the government agreement to which the Group of Ten opposed. Therefore, Madam Minister, instead of wanting to reintegrate the sick at all costs, do you not think that the most important thing would be to tackle the causes of disability? What steps are you going to take to address these very real causes of disability, such as burn-out? Sanctions are not provided for, but if the project's budget targets are not met, you will consider them. What would they be? Will it again be a reduction in allowances for the sick? This questionnaire, the referral to a doctor at work, the possible future sanctions on employers and the sick, do not all these measures encourage pressure on all the protagonists? Is it not contrary to the unanimous opinion of the social partners to consider sanctions again? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u73	Madam Minister, of course my questions are similar to those of my colleague and friend Mr Eric Massin. I am not going to resume all the development, I am going to ask directly my few supplementary questions. Minister, do you already have any concrete elements in relation to the structure, composition and content of this questionnaire? Who will be in charge of the evaluation of this questionnaire and on what objective criteria? Will your measure be accompanied by a genuine policy of prevention of psychosocial risks? Indeed, this is one of the main causes. You say that after analysis of the questionnaire, the patient will be given a more suitable job. Do you have any concrete examples of your approach to this issue? I guess these are more suitable jobs in the same company. Could other measures be considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u74	Madam Minister, on 7 June the NAR issued an opinion on a draft bill and two draft royal decrees which seek to amend the Royal Decree of 3 June 1996 on health insurance. Following the opinion previously issued by the RIZIV Management Committee on 25 May, it reiterates what was already stated in the agreement of the Group of Ten, namely that it is essential that the three legislative texts come into force simultaneously. In addition, the NAR sees problems with the gradual application of the provisions amending the Royal Decree of 3 June 1996 as regards the date of entry into force of the incapacity for work. On pages 12 and 31 of the opinion, the NAR lists the inconsistencies between labour law and social security law and points out the specific situation that would arise for the workers concerned if the three legislative texts entered into force at a different time. My question is therefore whether you will respond to the repeated requests of the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u75	Colleagues, on the question of why the reintegration of workers with incapacity for work is so important, I will reply that it is not just to be able to control the costs of sickness benefits. What is really important to me is the interest of the person in a situation of incapacity for work. Successful reintegration contributes in particular to the restoration of the health of the person concerned. On the other hand, workers with incapacity for work must, as much as their colleagues, be able to participate in working life. Whether we like it or not, work is a key element in our society and employment is an important source of social contacts and social experience. It allows us to contribute to society and gives us the feeling of being valued while giving us the opportunity to develop our skills and skills. This is why people with disabilities must have every chance to stay at work or to take it back. Thus, we help to develop a more inclusive society. A certain period of rest must be granted at the beginning of the incapacity for work. But contrary to what is suggested in the questions, the duration of this rest period cannot be too long. The more the recipient stays at home without contact with his or her workplace, and his or her colleagues, the less likely they will be able to return to work. In addition, it has recently emerged from the scientific literature that the prescription of long periods of rest is not recommended, even in cases of mild mental impairment. I would also like to dispel the impression that completing a questionnaire during the second month of incapacity for work would be tedious. We are looking for a short and easy-to-fill questionnaire. The intention of this questionnaire is threefold. First, it allows us to better estimate the chances of successful reintegration of the person concerned by obtaining a more holistic view of the aspects that determine incapacity for work. This allows for a mapping of external and personal factors that positively or negatively influence working at work. In addition to the other rather medical examinations, this information provides direction to the physician-counsel for a reintegration journey. The medical consultant and his team will be responsible for the evaluation on the basis of the data collected. Second, different patient representative organizations have drawn my attention to the importance of listening to the patient and giving him or her the opportunity to express his or her opinion. The questionnaires should provide an objective view of the patient's position regarding a possible resumption of work. Thirdly, at the same time, it is possible to recall the idea of socio-occupational reintegration to beneficiaries on an ad hoc basis. This can prevent the recipient from having the impression that his illness inevitably leads to permanent incapacity for work. The more opportunities are created for the beneficiary to consider possible reintegration into the labour market, the more likely it is that such reintegration will become effective. In this context, I would like to inform you that the experts within our institutions have already started working with scientific experts to develop the questionnaires. The INAMI centre of expertise on incapacity for work will include the drafting and presentation of the questionnaire used in the second month as well as the questionnaire for the seventh month of incapacity. In addition, the usefulness of the questionnaires was demonstrated in a recent study conducted at the request of the same centre of expertise. It has been concluded that the expectations of the person concerned with regard to his return to work determine the chances of success of a reintegration journey far more than the pathology itself. The more a beneficiary takes a positive attitude towards the possibility of reintegration, the more likely it will be to succeed. Mrs De Coninck, with regard to the NAR's opinion, there were not many comments for us. But it goes without saying that the royal decision that I will make, and the royal decision that Minister Peeters will make, must go through the door. There were many more comments on Minister Peeter's royal decision, but we will wait until action has been taken. Out together, home together. We have always promised that the decisions will be consistent. So I'm waiting, even though there were a lot of comments. Once they have been remediated, there must be a re-conciliation. I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u76	Mr President, I do not agree at all with the minister's point of view, especially with regard to getting back to work. First, it is important to address the factors of disability rather than addressing the issue of return to work. In addition, it did not respond to sanctions. I will therefore come back later with a question relating only to sanctions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u77	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand the importance of the social role of work. I also understand the importance for the physician-counsel of having a mapping of factors, with a view to improving the chances of successful reintegration. In this context, why should the concept of sanctions be allowed to subside? This can be considered constructively, but why, in addition, have it been allowed to pose this threat? I have not heard anything about risk prevention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u78	Madam Secretary, I am pleased that the decisions will be followed together. That is really very important to avoid confusion on the ground. In general, we are absolutely not opposed to the reintegration and guidance into the labour market of people who have been ill for a long time, if that is possible. By the way, there are many patients who are asking for help. A number of conditions must, of course, be met.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u79	Madam Secretary, student labour is in full play. Today, in De Standaard, I read Mr Denys' statement that there is a great deal of undeclared work and that the conversion of days of student work to hours could be a solution. Some people are linking a new discussion to that, namely the demand to increase the number of hours. A 50-day conversion to hours would be 380 hours. However, some argue for 500 hours. The Secretary of State responsible for Combating Social Fraud, Philippe De Backer, also stated in his policy letter on 8 July that he would increase the number of hours to 500. To my question whether there was an agreement in the government, he replied that he would present his plan in a few hours' time. Meanwhile, we're 504 hours later and I haven't gotten any news of an agreement in the government. Besides, there was no agreement on that either. There is no letter in the coalition agreement about a linear increase in the number of hours during the conversion of days to hours. The coalition agreement merely states that one would "examine the modalities for calculating the 50-day credit for student work in hours in order to provide greater flexibility for students and their employers, without compromising the possibility of controlling it." That's what we agreed on. As always, it is useful to first evaluate the strengths and shortcomings. I do not understand very well why there is a discussion on this issue. If we look at the 2012 figures, so after the reform, less than 1% of students appear to take up the 50 days. Then why is there a discussion about extending the number of hours? I don't understand. In any case, the 2012 study is very interesting, as the NAR also issued an opinion on that basis, namely Opinion No. 1900 of 25 March 2014. Today, two years later, I thought it might be useful to see the evolution in a number of findings on this subject. Madam Secretary, how many young people did student work last year? How many days did they work on average? That's interesting to know if we want to discuss the issue. How many young people worked the full 50 days last year? In which sectors have there been any noticeable increases or decreases in student labour since 2012? Are you planning a new question for evaluation at the NAR? That would be interesting in the light of what still needs to be worked out. If so, when? I myself believe that this is best done in the very short term. If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u80	Mr Vercamer, according to the current system, an employee student can benefit from an exemption from social security contributions for 50 days of employment. In order to allow greater flexibility, the government is currently examining whether the arrangements for converting the current 50-day quota into hours should be adapted while maintaining the current control possibilities. In this context, I have therefore submitted a proposal to the government. My proposal does not make any changes to the employment legislation of working time, among other things. Nor is there any provision for an adjustment of the present solidarity contribution. Most students work eight hours on a working day. If they only work for six hours, it is also a working day, but they will of course be paid less. If you work eleven hours, as with some people who, for example, are used at night in the rest homes, that is only one working day. So we are not changing anything. The transition to a quota of hours is budgetaryly neutral. There is no evidence that doing student work would have an impact on the studies of the person concerned, especially as they are not allowed to work during the period of attendance in the lessons. In my opinion, job students are not competing with regular employment either, but are being used more to cope with peak moments or engagements. I don't know how our retirement home keeps running on vacation without students. It's all nursing or nursing students, so they have a certain basis. You know that yourself! In 2015, a total of 453 609 young people performed a student job. They performed on average 23 days; 26 996 young people use their full quota of 50 days. These are especially young people who have to work for their own studies. I've always worked in college. However, that obligation did not exist at the time. I think the scheme is an advantage today, because it is better protected. From the evolution of the number of days worked compared to 2012, we see a sharp increase in the following sectors: catering plus 49 %, public administration plus 47 %. The latter sector also has some rest and nursing homes and playground activities. I will continue with the list: pharmacy plus 43 %, water and waste management plus 41 %, food, tobacco and beverage manufacturing plus 37 %, domestic staff plus 35 % and scientific research and development work plus 29 %. That is interesting, because those are young people who already do jobs in labs where research is being done. They already perform tasks there, while they are students. They are recruited at colleges and universities. For me it is an added value to be able to work as a student, just to find out what one wants to do later and what one certainly does not want to do. Meanwhile, they also have their own resources and learn how to spend them. I only see added value in that. Mr Vercamer, the only thing I don't want with regard to the number of hours I certainly don't want to touch on working hours is that someone who used to do 50 days in a rest and nursing home can now do so much less nights, because the number of working hours is reduced to 400 hours. Now they had 50 days of 11 o'clock to do nights. There are students who only do nights. They're going backwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u81	Madam Secretary, I challenge you. Get the numbers of all the job students doing the night in the residential care centers. See how many of them do 50 days of the night on their holiday. I dare you. You'll be able to count them on one hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u82	You'd be stunned if you could count them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u83	... to carry out a linear increase. That's the deal, by the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u84	What are you talking about? There is a proposal in the nuclear cabinet, of which your Minister of Work is part. He will certainly be involved in this, along with his fellow Members. It is only natural that a proposal should be made that goes in the direction that is directed by ourselves and by the party, in particular that we want to give students who want to work the freedom to do so. We agree on that. Anyway, we don't agree on everything. However, give your Minister the opportunity to do his job at the government table. He can handle that job on his own, surely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u85	I didn't announce anything. Mr De Backer announced here on 8 June that he would introduce 500 hours. He was going to present that proposal in the media a few hours later. That was his deal. We are 504 hours later and I note that Mr De Backer has not announced anything yet. So I didn't start it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u86	An enthusiastic secretary of state must never be stopped. You can't bring someone who starts with some schwung to justice immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u87	I'm glad there's still good secretary of state.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u88	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vercamer's 11791 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u89	Mr President, Minister, the 980 checks carried out on incapacity for work showed that one in three people worked in black. This number is worrying and also relevant in the context of the discussion on how to respond to incapacity for work. Do you have any idea to what extent people are affected by illness, i.e. primary disability, or disability? Did the persons caught continue to be recognised as unfit for work or did the incapacity for work fall because they could work? 980 checks were therefore one in three. If we know that 770 000 people receive benefits, we may be able to make the extrapolation and see where we come from. Isn't this a signal that there should be more controls? Finally, rather a reflection question, some of these people work in black because at the moment there is simply no chance of earning anything on top of the benefit. I refer implicitly to my concept of employment integration jobs. Do you really think that if those people had the opportunity to earn something in a legal way, much of that undeclared work would be eradicated?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic458x.u90	Mr President, Mr Spooren, in 2015, the RIZIV Audit Service carried out around 3 300 investigations, which revealed an amount of EUR 5 million of unjustified benefits. The amount of EUR 2.5 million, which you are talking about, is about benefits paid to people in incapacity for work who did indeed engage in undeclared activities. In this context, EUR 2.4 million will be recovered. It is a sample for which a pre-selection has been made. These were 980 persons, of whom, due to the cross-section of data and the elements in the file, were suspected to be likely to be doing undeclared work. So one cannot extrapolate; the truth will lie somewhere in the middle. It is already a selected group in which one in three people engage in undeclared work, but one should not claim that one in three of the sick are engaged in undeclared work. We are working on this problem by trying to find out which groups have a lot of abnormal activities. We also see that in 2014 (...) 61 long-term sick people have partially resumed their work, with the agreement of the counseling physician. Our current policy in this area is to maximize the reinseration of long-term ill, on which there has been so much commotion. We will also evaluate the remaining capacity of long-term sick people and we must also draw up a plan to get those concerned back to work. As regards the strengthening of control, an initiative has been taken to carry out the monitoring of long-term sick persons from the seventh month of incapacity for work. We will establish a cell within the RIZIV to carry out a re-evaluation of the disability from 1 July 2016. This was discussed last time in this committee. We will first give the controller a chance to rescale for those people, but we will also do a number of ourselves. I told you, we're recruiting five doctors, a number of nurses and administrative support for that. Our number of inspectors for monitoring undeclared work is limited. As a result, there is also a limited capacity on the relevant service of the RIZIV for administrative checks. I have now received a supplementary budget from the government to carry out those checks in the context of the fight against social fraud. A number of auditors will therefore be able to be recruited. Six new auditors have already been recruited in early 2016, and two other recruitments are now underway. How many inspectors do we have? On 20 June 2016, so last week, there were 29 social auditors, four of whom are conducting investigations on the ground, in the fight against undeclared work carried out by persons known to be unfit for work. There will be a further strengthening of eight social inspectors, who will have to fight social dumping in particular and who will cross the energy data and data on people who are long-term disabled. That was agreed on the conclave. The administrative agreement between the RIZIV and the government also contains an action plan to combat the various aspects of social fraud in the medical care and benefit insurance sector. This action plan is an integral part of an overall plan against social fraud and will therefore be implemented in cooperation with the relevant State Secretary. As regards the actual penalties, Article 168quinquies of the Law on compulsory medical care and benefits was coordinated on 14 July 1994, as amended by Article 170 of the Programme Act of 19 December 2014, published in the Belgian Official Journal on 29 December 2015. The administrative penalties which may be imposed in the event of exclusion by officials of the Administrative Control Office of the RIZIV have been made more stringent in relation to the duration of the infringement. At present, there is a system of sanctions at three levels, with an exclusion of up to 400 days as a sanction for serious and persistent cases of fraud. The minimum is three days for less serious infringements. In order to improve the effectiveness of the fight against fraud, the limitation period for infringements will be increased from three to five years. In the case of offences relating to undeclared work, the tightening of sanctions will in particular exclude entitlement to invalidity benefits from a minimum of 16 days up to a maximum of 400 days in the general scheme. You also ask whether we should not be more flexible in making disabled people work. I have already told you that we are investigating this, but that is also a plan that should be developed in cooperation with the Minister for Employment. I have already said in a previous question that the supporting study work has been started on this. I'm willing to use anything to prevent people from being forced into undeclared work. I certainly want to fight against undeclared work from all sides. I don't think it's good for people. They don't build rights, they don't build pensions with them. So they're twice the victim. Once when they get caught and once afterwards. You know this is a persistent struggle in this country. I've heard it said here a lot before. But as far as that is concerned, we are doing the necessary work.
