ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u1	Minister, this question was put a while ago. The reason is an article in the De Morgen newspaper about the Systema Center in Marke, which would be a cover for the training of Russian secret agents. The newspaper refers to the book Putin's secret war: how Moscow destabilises the West. According to this book, a network of secret agents in Europe would be developed. In Germany they would be recruited via Systema, a Russian martial arts. Through Systema, secret agents would be trained to carry out sabotage actions on Moscow's command. The Belgian Systema school denies all ties to Moscow, but received a visit from a former Russian elite officer at the beginning of April. According to De Morgen, an intelligence source said: "The fact that the Russian intelligence services would like to develop a network of agents in Europe, and thus in Belgium, is known. That is why we consider this threat to be serious." Belgium has two Systema departments, in Jette and Marke. Early this month, the Systema departments organized an education by Sonny Puzikas, who subsequently posted a video on his Facebook page on which he, in his own words, fired an AK gun on a Belgian military base. Koen Vandersteene, who runs both Systema centers, states that the whole story is taken from the sky. Minister, I would like answers to the following questions. Firstly, according to De Morgen, an intelligence source states that the problem is known in Belgium. Can you confirm this information? If so, how long has this problem been known? Secondly, have orders already been given or measures taken to verify these claims? Thirdly, has there already been an investigation into the video on Sonny Puzikas' Facebook page? Can you confirm or deny that the video was recorded on a possibly abandoned Belgian military base? If confirmation: what measures have already been taken? Weak measures will you take? Where did the person involved get the gun?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u2	Mr Top, at the moment, there is no information available to the Defense Department that allows us to confirm or deny De Morgen's statements. That doesn't mean we're doing nothing. I can tell you that, following these allegations, an investigation was started, especially in connection with the posting of the film by Sonny Puzikas on his personal Facebook page. We have reason to believe that the images were effectively recorded at a firing range of the military camp Elsenborn. You know that firing positions are not in principle fenced or guarded. On the weekends there are just people walking around and animals, for what that's worth. We do not have any information on the origin of the weapon used by the person concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u3	Thank you for the information, Minister. The questions have actually been tabled a while ago, so the actual value has already gone a bit. I can assume, as you say, that the investigation has begun. However, I should like to express the hope, together with you probably, that these signals and that information will continue to be followed by our intelligence service or by both military intelligence and state security.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u4	Mr Top, I express the same hope and wish you. The fact is, of course, that the military intelligence services, my own intelligence services, are not competent for everything. We are investigating what concerns us and whether military involvement and so on in this story. The rest is about internal security and it is therefore another body that is competent to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u5	For the sake of clarity, therefore, the plea for good cooperation between the various intelligence services is useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u6	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Thiébaut's 11387 has been transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u7	Since Mr Thiéry is not here, I give the floor to Mr Pirlot.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u8	Madam Chair, Minister, on June 13th, an important advancement committee was held in your department with all the potential consequences of the department in terms of linguistic balance within the army. In order to follow up on the parliamentary working group whose work had been on this balance, I would like to ask you, minister, the following questions. What follow-up has been given to the various parliamentary recommendations on this subject since you took office? Before this committee, could you tell me the status of the distribution between Francophones and Dutch speakers for the ranks of Lieutenant-General, General Staff, Brigadier General, Colonel and Lieutenant-Colonel, as well as for the recently allocated places in the post-graduate training (Superior Staff Course) for the academic year 2016-17? How many seats are involved in this committee and what are they? On the basis of this current situation, has the progress committee which has been held taken into account the first recommendation of Parliament that "the working group considers that the Defence should continue to strive to achieve 60% of Dutch-speaking and 40% of French-speaking military personnel in each category of personnel, notwithstanding the balance to be reached by the army from the rank of general officer"? Do you share this objective? Will it be reached under this government?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u9	Madam Chair, Mr. Pirlot, given the nature of your questions, it may have been more appropriate to deal with them in writing. I propose, for greater clarity and readability, that the figures presented in table form should be submitted to the secretary of the committee. But first of all, I would like to make it clear that there is no language framework for the military. There is, however, a management rule calling for a linguistic distribution, as in the previous parliamentary commission, of 40% of Francophones and 60% of Dutch speakers. Since taking office, Parliament's recommendations in this area have been taken into account at every event that impacts linguistic balance. It is essential to clarify that the first criterion for advancement is competence. The High Committee of June 13, 2016 recommended a Francophone in the rank of Vice-Admiral, three Francophones in the rank of General Major, two Dutch-speaking in the rank of General Major and one Dutch-speaking in the rank of Division Admiral. In the case of lieutenant-colonels or frigate captains, twenty-four Dutch-speaking and nineteen French-speaking were recommended for promotion to the rank of colonel or ship captain. They took up their duties on 26 June. As for the seventy-two majors or corvette captains, forty-two Dutch-speaking and twenty-seven French-speaking were recommended for promotion to the rank of lieutenant-colonel or frigate captain. I'm coming to positions of responsibility. In the press, and especially in Paris Match, it seems to me, the term "with responsibilities" has been used. This term is relative and full of nuances. For example, the four component commander positions held by two French-speaking generals and two Dutch-speaking generals. The two Assistants to the Operations Manager are two Francophone generals. In order to be appointed general, a colonel must have a thorough knowledge of the second national language. Language examinations for this purpose, whether written or oral, are corrected according to predefined criteria and the assessment is therefore objective. In addition to this linguistic knowledge, generals are selected by promotion committees. They shall be responsible for appointing from among the candidates whom they consider most suitable to perform the functions of the higher rank. It is therefore a competency test or, in other words, a comparison of the qualifications and merits of the candidates. To this end, the committees assess the professional, moral, character and physical skills of the candidates, in accordance with the Ministerial Decree of 31 March 1971 on the composition and functioning of the promotion committees. [[...]] As of January 1, the linguistic distribution of generals was comprehensively 61% Dutch-speaking and 39% French-speaking. On 1 May, the situation was the same and on 1 October next, I will strictly follow the recommendations of the Committee on Monitoring the Use of Languages in the Field of Defence of this last Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u10	Minister, thank you for your full answer. One regret is that you read Paris Match!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u11	Madam President, Minister, I do not think it would be useful to recall the importance of our military support missions to the police as part of the security of public spaces and the protection of all our citizens, since the beginning of 2015. As you know, for years, this proposal to support the security of our military has been made by my political formation, the MR. It is now operational and is a considerable and undeniable contribution at this difficult time. It was therefore with astonishment that I was able to observe that, according to recently published information – and it was not in Paris Match! – a number of complaints have reportedly been lodged against our military and reportedly concern military personnel who have exceeded their competence in the context of the accompaniment of our police officers. Of course, if offences have been committed, they will have to be punished. However, it seems to me important that we can hear you on this issue because I do not want an unhealthy climate to develop and that we cast the discredit on a body, all the military, which, on the contrary, deserves our full support as it is true that it is very much required in theatres of operations, whether in Belgium or abroad. Minister, could you please tell us whether it is true that complaints have been filed against members of the military on a mission to secure our public spaces since 2015? If so, how many? Are these complaints related to actions allegedly taken by the military when they were accompanied by police officers? Is it true that your services have been contacted by some unions asking for clarification of the scope of the military's competence as part of their mission to secure our public spaces? Finally, have your services conducted an analysis of this situation? Have any legal rules, if any, been recalled by your services, possibly by circular?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u12	Mr.Pivin, the legal basis for the engagement of the military in support of the federal police forces, in the context of the fight against the terrorist threat, was largely detailed during the various defence commissions, including the one of 25 February 2015. As far as the training of military personnel engaged is concerned, they must be certified for the use of lethal and non-lethal weapons at their disposal. Staff also receive briefings on the rules of engagement before and during each deployment. These briefings reflect the conditions under which military personnel can use force. In addition, at a weekly coordination meeting, the staff and all detachment commanders are studying, among other things, events or incidents so that each participant can benefit from the lessons and the training is tailored to the needs. Pursuant to article 96 of the Law of 20 May 1994 on the Status of Defence Personnel, a military member or former military member who is brought before the court or against whom the public action is brought for actions in the performance of his or her duties shall be provided with legal assistance by a State lawyer. With regard to complaints against military personnel engaged in this mission, my department is aware of three complaints lodged with the police services. Two of the three complaints concerned incidents in which the police were present. To date, no complaints have been prosecuted. Three information sessions on Operation Vigilant Guardian have already been organized for trade unions since the beginning of the operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u13	Minister, thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u14	Madam President, Minister, the drone industry is particularly active in our country. This is a booming industrial policy. The Wallonia Parliament has just unanimously adopted a resolution to support the sector, including its military applications. As a reminder, on December 22, the government adopted a preliminary draft strategic plan with several military purchases, including six drones (two in 2021 and four in 2030). Mr Minister, in the framework of this strategic plan and the military purchases it provides for, has your department made or will it make contact with the federated entities in order to maximize the industrial synergies but also with the economic sectors of our country, active in this field? In the more precise context of your project to acquire drones, is it your intention to take initiatives vis-à-vis this particularly active industrial sector in Belgium? What kind of drones do you intend to acquire?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, these are MALE drones (Average Altitude Long Endurance). The acquisition of drones is in preparation for the headquarters, in accordance with the decision of the small cabinet of 22 December 2015 to equip the defence with efficient and forward-looking equipment. As part of the preparation of this dossier, as is the case for all other planned investment programmes, regular contacts with the Belgian and European industries will be made in order to ascertain the possibilities of the latter. You will understand that given the various reforms of the state, the Regions will be involved in this process.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u16	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister for his response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u17	Madam President, Minister, as part of the hearings on Central Africa in the Committee on External Relations, we have heard from the IPIS Institute, which is an independent research institute for peace and development. During this hearing, the representatives of this institute notified us of a strong presence of soldiers of the armed forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo at all mining sites and that many soldiers were exploiting and marketing these raw materials. These abuses are well known and are recognized as illegal by Congolese military and mining codes. However, military personnel are not tried and sentenced, often because of a lack of competent military justice in the Democratic Republic of the Congo for such matters. Mr Minister, Belgium has always attached great importance, as part of a 3D approach, to the training of Congolese military personnel, but also to their empowerment. The fight against conflict minerals could therefore also involve initiatives in the field of means for military justice. What initiatives do you think could be taken at Belgian, European or international level (in particular MONUSCO) to end this impunity?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u18	Madam President, Mr Crusnière, Congolese military justice is one of the pillars of the security sector that needs to be reformed in depth with the help of the international community. This will make it possible to effectively combat the feeling of impunity that some Congolese military personnel are feeling. Due to its expertise, the means at its disposal and its mandate, MONUSCO is the most able organization to provide the necessary assistance. The European Union, for its part, remains committed in the Democratic Republic of the Congo through the European Development Fund (EDF) and the Instrument for Stability and Peace (IcSP). Finally, since the abolition of its military courts, Belgian Defence has only limited expertise in this field. However, in the course of training under the military partnership programme, it ensures that Congolese military personnel are systematically sensitized to the rights of armed conflict. It also regularly trains experts in this field.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u19	Minister, thank you for that answer. I am indeed convinced that military justice must also be reformed like many other things in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and I also share your view that MONUSCO is perhaps the best able to help them in this regard. As I have already done, I call on future election organisations in the Democratic Republic of the Congo to work and also to contribute to helping MONUSCO in its various missions, not only in the fight against impunity but also in the organisation of elections, always with due respect for the Rwanda Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u20	Minister, I would like to take stock with you of the Royal Military Institute of Physical Education (RMEP) in Eupen, which I think you know. This is the only competency centre for continuing education in sport for members of all Defence units. The mission of ARCEP is, among other things, to train NCOs and volunteers who will be responsible for giving sports courses in their unit. Minister, can you inform me of the amount for general operating expenses of the Royal Military Institute of Physical Education in Eupen? In addition, I would like to remind you of your answer to an oral question that I addressed to you at the beginning of 2015. You made it very clear to me that your goal was not to close this barracks, but to optimize their effectiveness and that the Defence strategic plan would respond to them. As a reminder, the Eupen Barracks is an institution of major importance for the city as well as for the German-speaking Community, in view of the close collaboration they maintain, in particular for the shared use of existing infrastructures, both at the Schönefeld complex and in Bellmerin. It is a barracks that has been declared neutral, so there are no more firearms. One party could be opened for civilian use. This is a success, Minister, since to date, the city of Eupen has rented about 40% of these sports facilities for clubs and associations in the municipality. You know that the city and the community have always been inclined to dialogue to further strengthen the partnership with MRIEP. Strengthening the partnership would, among other things, reduce the financial burden of investment in defence infrastructure, while maintaining the quality of the military sports training currently provided in Eupen. I believe that both the city of Eupen and the German-speaking Community have informed you of their availability and willingness to continue to invest in these infrastructures. I also understand, Mr Minister, that the Eupen football club, which will evolve into the first division from 1 August, which we very much welcome in Eupen, would also be interested in a partnership in order to be able to make more use of these infrastructures. Minister, in light of the above, can you reaffirm to me that there is a future for MRIEP in Eupen? Has a partnership already been discussed during your meeting with the local authorities? What is the result of this? I will listen to you with special attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u21	Minister, several months ago, I asked you about the possible closure of the Beauvechain base. You told me at the time that no decision had been made on the closures of the barracks. I would like to go back to you because, again, there are persistent rumours about an imminent closure, which raises some concerns, as you may know. Therefore, Minister, while your strategic plan is still in preparation, can you tell me what future you are planning for the Beauvechain military base? Will it be maintained, reassigned or simply closed? Will this issue be addressed as part of the strategic plan? In the same vein, can you tell me what future you are looking for for the Nivelles military pharmacy that has also proven its skills? Will this decision also be included in your long-awaited strategic plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u22	Ms. Jadin, Mr. Crusnière, the framework for Defence's strategic plan was approved by the government last December. However, the implementation of the plan and the concrete implementation measures still need to be determined after consultation with the other parties of the coalition of the federal majority with a view to reaching a consensus text. The future of Defence neighbourhoods will be discussed within the government in the wake of the implementation of the plan. Local authorities will be informed in due course. Mrs Jadin, on an annual basis, the operating costs of the Royal Military Institute for Physical Education amount on average to EUR 2 200 000 for staff, EUR 220 000 for the operation of the site and EUR 28 000 for the specific costs related to sports training, i.e. a total of about 2.5 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u23	Minister, it is indeed a cost. The fixed cost of personnel is for the Defence as a whole. The operating costs for MRIEP are finally low, and I am positively surprised. I have heard that you are saying that things are not yet finally settled with regard to future implementations following the implementation of the strategic plan. I assure you, Minister, that as far as MRIEP is concerned, I will not give up. I think I have already provided you with precise and convincing arguments to give the opportunity to allow a partnership to take place that would allow the sustainability of this institution to which the whole region is committed. A few years to allow this implementation, and this partnership to bear these fruits, seems to me a very wise choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u24	Mr Minister, thank you for this information, which is not a concrete answer. Again, from week to week, this implementation of a strategic plan is postponed. We have no clear timetable. Meanwhile, there is great concern in the barracks, whether Beauvechain, Nivelles or others. I'll have a suggestion for you. I understood that the budget discussions would be postponed, while planning had been established by the end of July. Perhaps the government will recover some time since the discussions will resume at the beginning of the year. I will therefore ask you to weigh your weight to replace the budget discussions with discussions on the Defence Strategic Plan. Of course, I am aware that consensus is difficult to find, but you could take advantage of this opportunity for the free time available to the government, as it must no longer discuss the budget. Be aware that I, too, will remain attentive to the future of both the Beauvechain base and the Nivelles military pharmacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u25	Madam President, Minister, as you know, an important NATO summit will be held in Warsaw on 8 and 9 July. During this Warsaw Summit, the Heads of State and Government of NATO countries will "track the way for the Alliance to adapt to the new security environment, so that NATO remains ready to defend all allies against any threat, wherever it comes from". It seems that our country should also take this opportunity to finally present its strategic plan, which must set the contours and ambitions of the Belgian army by 2030. I would therefore like to ask you a few questions, Mr. Minister. From a military point of view, what will our country's positions be during this summit? Will your comprehensive strategic plan be ready before the summit? Does this plan provide for our country's share of GDP devoted to defence under this government?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u26	Mr President, Mr Pirlot, in general, Belgian Defence will be part of a consensus previously negotiated by our delegation in NATO. In particular, from a military point of view, Belgium will ensure a status quo of the costs of NATO personnel and operations, which are borne by the Defence budget. Belgium will contribute to the implementation of the decisions taken at the summit. In addition, Belgian Defence will continue to promote close cooperation between NATO and the European Union. At this time, the text of the Defence Strategic Plan is in the negotiation phase at the government level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u27	What about our country's share of GDP devoted to defence?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u28	At this time, the text of the strategic plan is in the negotiation phase at the government level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u29	Thank you for this non-response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u30	Minister, on 5 May, the British Airwars organisation published a report showing that Belgium is the second least transparent country of the anti-IS coalition in the field of aerial bombardment. However, public transparency is important in this respect, despite the military secrecy that the government so often invokes. Within the coalition of which Belgium is a member, each country is individually liable for the so-called collateral damage victims of civilian casualties that it causes. You say that there were zero civilian casualties between October 2014 and July 2015. We know, of course, that this is the practice of the government and of the army. However, that is not as easy to control as you and your predecessor always claim. Of at least 20 bombings with civilian casualties, it is not certain who carried out them. In addition, more openness can also be a weapon in the fight against propaganda by IS. That is why I have some questions for you, especially now that we will begin our air operations over Syria. Are you willing to publish weekly or biweekly statistics on our air operations publicly, including the number of air strikes, broken down by type of mission? If not, why not? Just so we're clear, I'm not talking about releasing patrols, operations and flights that we have yet to conduct. I mean information about cases that are over. Are you also prepared to comment on individual aerial bombings by Belgian aircraft? This includes the nature of the target, the date and location of past actions. This is in line with the best practices of coalition partners such as Canada and the United Kingdom, and to allow for control of possible civilian casualties. In what other ways do you intend to work towards greater public transparency, not just in the closed committee on the follow-up of military operations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u31	First and foremost, I am going to give a non-negligent political answer; it is important to note that in the report. According to my information, our contribution to the international coalition has not led to any civilian casualties so far. I'm very clear about that. I'm assuming that that information is correct. Due to the nature of the conflict, Defense chooses to inform the public correctly, but without releasing details that may have a negative impact on the internal security and security of the detachment. This means, on the one hand, that Defence organises press moments, mainly giving quantitative information on the number of hours of flight, the number of sortings, the number of kinetic actions, the type of assignments, the rules of deployment and so on. On the other hand, this means that sensitive information such as explaining individual aerial bombings, information on the numbers and type of bombs used is only communicated during the follow-up committee for foreign operations, i.e. behind closed doors. This is a method which, in my view, largely meets the requirements. I shall refrain from commenting on the origin and composition of the report of the British Airwars organisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u32	Mr Minister, to begin with, why do you want to refrain from commenting on that report? I honestly don't understand that very well. Madam President, I would also like to address you. I think this is a reputable organization that has prepared a good report. Why are you abstaining from commenting? I don't understand. You justify your actions and you say you do not want to change them. Then why is Belgium doing so much worse than all those other countries? Canada and the United Kingdom are countries with a great deal of expertise and experience in such operations. They'll release more details. They apparently do not assume that this has a negative impact on safety. I don't understand, honestly, why that would be the case. I believe ISIS itself knows very well where they will be bombed when they are bombed. There is, of course, public information. The audience doesn't know what our F-16s are doing. The public in other countries knows that much better. Those are operations funded by the taxpayer. Madam President, I would also like to put the question to you. Is there room to discuss that report here in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u33	The committee has already decided to discuss the report. There is only a date to be fixed after the recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u34	Mr. Secretary, could you attend that meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u35	I have to see if my agenda allows, but I'll make sure I'm represented.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u36	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u37	Madam President, Minister, last December, the government presented its strategic plan for National Defence. In this plan, as communicated, as well as in the presentation that was made to our assembly, however, several aspects were absent. In fact, we had already reported that at the time. This was true of the important "training" aspect of our military personnel, particularly non-commissioned officers and officers, and thus, de facto, of the future of the Royal Military School (RME). My colleague Sebastian Pirlot asked you about this last March. You then answered that a study was being carried out on the training component of the military - including that of the ERM - while pointing out that all leads remained open. However, it is June. The 2016-17 academic year is fast approaching and especially open days at the ERM have already taken place with a fixed catalogue of training offered to future students. What is the status of the study on possible reform of the academic training of non-commissioned officers? At the officer level, what is the future of the Royal Military School? Will it be maintained as a fully-fledged institution in its current status? Is its existence guaranteed in the future or are you exploring other avenues such as, for example, the use of civilian universities to provide this training? What about NCOs? Is training in 5 years - integrated into the Bologna system - guaranteed? Is all the courses/cursus presented at the open doors guaranteed for the 2016-17 academic year? Is the MRE site guaranteed in the future at the Cinquantenaire Park?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u38	Fernandez Fernandez, the study on the reform of the academic training of officers and non-commissioned officers is currently under way in Defence. For non-commissioned officers, decisions should be made in the future plan without calling into question the principle of basic and continuing training, necessary to acquire and maintain the skills related to this category of personnel. After an in-depth analysis of many leads, the development of a new officer program within the MRE was preferred. This programme will continue to meet all the requirements of the Bologna process and the future of the ERM and its current site are not called into question. In concrete terms, the training of polytechnic officers will be maintained over 5 years, while the master's degree in social and military sciences will take place in 4 years. The courses of the Master's years will be taught in the English language. The number of optional courses has been reduced to increase the performance of the training. This new program will be implemented as early as the 2016-17 fiscal year. The ad hoc legal texts are being prepared. This new programme concerns only those officer candidates who will be incorporated from this summer onwards. For all those who are already undergoing training at the ERM, nothing changes. The Human Resources Directorate will soon be in charge of informing all applicants of these changes in order to maintain full transparency. Taking into account the changes mentioned above, all the trainings presented during the open days remain guaranteed. Does it reassure you or make you feel comfortable?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u39	I may not be reassured, but it takes more to make me uncomfortable, minister. I understand and thank you for your relatively detailed answers. You say at the beginning that the study is still under way. Does that mean that there may still be changes?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u40	For the NCOs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u41	For the NCOs. I'm sorry, I wasn't paying attention. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u42	Mr Minister, this question is in fact in line with Mr De Vriendt's question, which has just been raised.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u43	Mr Top, you have exactly a lot of time for Facebook.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u44	No, such cases are reported to me. On May 30, CNN published some photos of Belgian F-16 pictorial aircraft intercepting Russian aircraft during the Baltic Air Policing NATO mission. The photos would have appeared on a Facebook page of the Belgian Air Force. Currently, the aforementioned Facebook page "The 1st squadron stingers" has been removed. On that web page, photos of Russian intercepted aircraft would have appeared effectively. Mr. Secretary, are you aware of the photos that have been published? Was the aforementioned Facebook page deleted on your question? Is the erased page an official Facebook page of our Belgian Air Force? It is quite remarkable that such photos can just appear on Facebook, while evaluations of such missions always take place behind closed doors. Have you already opened an investigation to find out who was the manager of the page? The photos come very clearly from the DOD itself. Are social networking sites of military personnel still being checked abroad? How many times has there been action against military forces in operations that place sensitive information on social networking sites over the past two years?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u45	Mr Top, Defence is well aware of the issue of the publication of sensitive information on social networks. Defence personnel, and in particular personnel leaving operations, shall be alerted to the risks associated with such operations. I have already provided more information on this in previous answers. The Facebook page you refer to and on which photographs of Russian aircraft interception have appeared is not an official page of Defence. Although these photos are not classified, the administrators of that page on their own initiative deleted the corresponding photos after the publication of the article on CNN. So we have not played an active role ourselves. Indeed, the social networking sites of Defence personnel are still monitored by the General Intelligence and Security Service. In the last two years there have been four active military activities that have placed too sensitive information on social networking sites.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u46	Minister, you say that you yourself have not acted actively against the administrators, that you have not deleted the photos yourself or asked them to be deleted. It is not clear to me whether or not it was sensitive information. Since no action was taken against the responsible administrators of that page, it seems to me that more information has been officially disseminated than what we are effectively getting behind closed doors in the Commission for the Follow-up of the Foreign Shipments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u47	Mr Top, I haven't seen the picture myself. That photo does show an intercept. Where, at what time, in what area, that information was not given. That's why that fact is in a grey zone. Maybe there's a pilot here and there who likes to say he's seen Russians. Is it necessary to release it that way? I don't think so. I can only say that in the above case we did not intervene formally after that photo had appeared. We've determined that that page was gone. It is likely that someone would have reminded that person that a number of things had been reported prior to departure on mission in relation to social networking sites and that it might not be wise to disseminate such information in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u48	I have two comments to make. Firstly, the appearance of these photographs indicates that there may be a need for even clearer guidelines for all military and interested parties on what may be published and on how to deal with sensitive or non-sensitive information. There is a need for clearer and better guidelines. Secondly, I have reservations about what is being reported behind closed doors. Here's another example of how information just appears in the newspapers or on a CNN website, which we as a Member of Parliament don't even know. I would like to point out that the need for information, both for Members of Parliament and for our citizens, is high.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u49	Minister, I would like to return to a question that our chairman, Mr Grosemans, asked a few weeks ago. It was about what is called a telephoned question in parliamentary jargon, clearly agreed between the Member of Parliament and the Minister. To keep it in today's terms, I would say that it was a very nice move by the President, who was well copied by the Minister, after which applause followed on all the banks and went on to the order of the day. Unfortunately, I think it is necessary to return to the question, because I believe that we are in the peripheral area of what is appropriate in the relationship between a minister and Parliament. Let me clarify. There were more questions, but I shall confine myself to a specific question from Mr Grosemans. I quote: "Does the manufacturer have any studies that describe the changes that would be necessary to extend our F-16 dynamometers and their subsystems?' I should also like to quote from the Minister's reply: "There are no studies at present by the manufacturer to extend the life of this type of F-16 beyond the 8 000 hours of flight or studies to ensure the operational relevance of the subsystems beyond the middle of the next decade." Mr Grosemans' reply left nothing to be desired: "I am very pleased with this very clear answer that the F-16s of block A and block B cannot be extended. I'm going to read another sentence: "I hope these ghost stories can finally stop, both in debates and in my mailbox." No one responded to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u50	Everybody's happy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u51	Everybody's happy. Almost everyone's happy. I was in any case surprised at your answer, Minister. I'll tell you why. It is enough to surf to the site of Lockheed Martin. It says that in 2012 "Lockheed Martin was awarded a contract valued up to 1.85 billion dollar by the US Government to initiate the upgrade of 145 Block 20 F-16 A/B aircraft for the Republic of China." It says the Republic of China, but it must be Taiwan. A study was therefore carried out by Lockheed Martin. That's even confirmed in specialized magazines. In a text of April 20, 2015, I read again August 1st, August 1st, which was August 1st, 2014...................................................................................................................................................................... It is quite clear, ladies and gentlemen. Lockheed Martin has examined the possibility of extending F-16... Block A and B, which are the type of aircraft we have. The conclusion is clear: the extension is possible. Even an extension to 12 000 hours of flight time is possible. Will you stick to your statement, Minister, and stick to your happy conclusion, Mrs Grosemans, that, in addition to the option of replacing the existing F-16 debt instruments, there cannot be the option of extending the lifetime of the current F-16 debt instruments?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u52	Mr Van der Maelen, I admire you greatly. If your career in Parliament ever ends, perhaps you should think about writing something, because your conspiracy theories really do you credit. I refer to the answer to the written question No. 165 of 4 March 2015 by Mrs Grosemans, Written Question No 308 of 26 June 2015 by Mr Pirlot, oral question No 11938 of 27 May 2016 by Mrs Grosemans and the explanations of the AcaP team, on which you were not present at my knowledge, on 21 January 2015 and 24 February 2016. I can confirm that, in our view, no studies are being carried out today on behalf of the European F-16 partners to extend the structural life of the European configuration of the F-16 AN/BN beyond the proposed design life of 8 000 hours and that the defence staff has no knowledge of studies by Lockheed Martin that could lead to a change in the design life. So I confirm what I said earlier in the correct terms. The only ongoing studies concern more modern versions of the F-16 and are therefore not easily transposable to our fleet. The Taiwanese fleet is built according to a similar configuration to the European F-16 AN/BN and has an average age of about 18 years. That is almost a third of the age of our fleet, 40 to 45 years. It is therefore much younger than the Belgian fleet. The upgrade of the Taiwanese F-16 involves the modernisation of the operational capabilities of the aeroplane and a number of works to safeguard the structural life and airworthiness of the aeroplane to the intended design life of 8 000 hours. Operational improvements include a number of capacities already present in European aircraft. Such an upgrade is similar to the adjustments made by the MNFP countries since the midlife update of F-16 several times to safeguard the airworthiness of the aircraft and to keep the aircraft operationally relevant in the evolutionary operating stage, until the end of the design life.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u53	You still have a happy chairman, Mr Van der Maelen. I am happy to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u54	I am even personally pleased that you are happy, Madam President. I will reply in three points. Firstly, I will read the report again, but I think I heard it right. You have corrected yourself, Minister. You have now said that there is no European demand for an extension study.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u55	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u56	Minister, I refer you to the text of your reply...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u57	Find contradiction, Mr Van der Maelen, as much as you like. Write a book about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u58	I am sorry, Minister, but your answer did not mention a European question. It is very simple to say: Lockheed has no studies on the extension.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u59	That's not true, that's not what it says. Read what it says.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u60	There are currently no studies of the manufacturer to extend the life of this type of F-16."
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u61	To extend this type of F-16, where is the contradiction? Tell me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u62	You give the impression, Minister, that there are no studies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u63	Of this type F-16? No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u64	Secondly, Minister, I would advise you to ask your advisers again, because it is right to begin with that the Taiwanese F-16 people are younger, but the body, the frame, the interior structure, the wings and so on, is identical to that of our F-16 crews. The study carried out by Lockheed Martin focuses precisely on the body and thus on the frame, the inner structure and the wings. The study proved that the lifespan of the aircraft, even if they are slightly older, with that body, so the frame, the inner structure and the wings, can be extended. Their lifespan can be extended, but you would like to give the impression, Minister, that there is only one option, namely the replacement of the F-16.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u65	That is the choice the government has made, Mr Van der Maelen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u66	That is my third point. It is now clear that the Minister has tried to put us on the wrong track by saying that there is no possibility of extending the life of the F-16 and that only the government option remains. Minister, I am surprised but unfortunately I have been sitting here long enough to know that right-wing parties are coming up with proposals to clean up public spending, to chop it up. Minister, this solution, the extension of the lifetime of the F-16, is much cheaper than the option now being chosen by this government. According to the information from specialists I consulted, who also exist, the first major difference is that the purchase of the new aircraft in your December plan is estimated at 3.6 billion, which is grossly underestimated, which is never going to work, while an update of 54 F-16 p.m. plus six reserves would cost 1.2 billion. So that costs a third of the option the government chooses. Another point is the operation or use of the aircraft. Colonel Van Pee estimates this if I stay in your miscalculation again at 15 billion minus 3.6 or 11.4 billion. Now, everyone agrees that it is much cheaper to keep flying with F-16. For the simple reason that the spare parts and the maintenance of the aircraft are cheaper. All infrastructure to keep those aircraft in the air, including staff training, is available. If you go to the F-35 or another new type of aircraft, there are incredibly high costs involved. Finally, I shall now turn to the final argument. Our F-16s now have on average 6 000 hours of flight time, one plane a little more, the other a little less. An extension is possible up to 12 000 hours of flight time, according to a study by Lockheed. To build in a safety margin, we could say that an average of 10 000 hours is enough. So there is an average of 4 000 hours per aircraft. If you know that an F-16 flies an average of 220 hours a year, then we can easily add 18 years for the oldest aircraft, which, if I remember correctly, would be taken out of service in 2023. In summary, that option is much cheaper and allows us to continue flying until 2040-2045. All experts agree that other platforms will be available by 2040, for example unmanned aircraft, or that there will be other and new techniques, such as lasers, which will ensure that manned fighter planes are no longer needed. With the purchase of new aircraft to replace the F-16 aeroplanes, this government is throwing money over the bar, while there is a much cheaper solution that guarantees us equal safety, namely the extension of the lifetime of the current F-16 aeroplanes. I note that this majority is apparently of the opinion that our country is rich enough to buy the most expensive aircraft, which is also the most expensive aircraft in service. As a result, a cuckoo egg is laid in the defense nest, which means that there is no money left for other challenges we face, unless there is a return to very heavy and painful savings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u67	Mr Buysrogge, you are asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u68	Madam President, normally I had not planned to ask for the floor, but the insinuations that are being sent into the world...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u69	That is not normally allowed, Mr Buysrogge. I understand that you're getting excited, because I've been very excited myself. However, it is not intended to have a debate here. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u70	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u71	Madam President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak. Mr van der Maelen, since you are tabling a motion, that gives me the opportunity to announce a motion on behalf of the majority. You just insinuated that a one-two was set up in a previous question and that this led to a goal that was made last month. Your strategy, which we might then have to follow, should completely reverse the government's strategy. By following that strategy, and we remain in the metaphor, we will certainly not win an EK. Minister, I am satisfied with your reply, with the commitments made by the government and with the confirmation of these commitments and of your previous statements. Mr van der Maelen, when you talk about right-wing parties doing everything, because the right is equal to bad, I have to tell you that there have been many left-wing parties in the past, of which we certainly have no lessons to learn in defence procurement procedures. Please stop your insinuations that we are in league with Lockheed Martin, with the F-35. Apparently, you already know it's gonna be. Chapeau. Your advisors must have told you it's definitely going to be the F-35. I don't think this has been decided yet, but you seem to know more. Please stop your insinuations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u72	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Dirk Van der Maelen and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Dirk Van der Maelen and the reply of the Minister for Defence, with responsibility for Civil Service, - calls for all existing (domestic and/or foreign) studies on the extension of the F-16 type A/B to be handed over to the Chamber of Representatives; - urges that the lifetime extension of the current F-16s be examined as a serious track and pay at least as much attention to this as to the replacement by one of the five successors ' A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Dirk Van der Maelen and reads as follows: The Chamber, ayant entendu l.o.interpellation de M. Dirk Van der Maelen and the response of the Minister of Defence, in charge of the Public Service, - requests that all existing studies (national and/or international) on the extension of type A/B F-16s be transmitted to the House of Representatives; - calls on the extension of the life of the current F-16s to be considered a serious lead and to devote at least the same attention to the replacement of the F-16s by one of the five potential candidates. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Peter Buysrogge. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Peter Buysrogge. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u73	Madam President, Minister, in 2007, Belgium sold 14 F-1673 to Jordan. These fighter planes were delivered in 2008. The sale was part of an agreement signed by Belgium and the Netherlands, on the one hand, and Jordan, on the other hand, on 20 April. It decided to resell eight Dutch and 14 Belgian aircraft. This sale generated around 70 million euros. It now appears that Pakistan wishes to buy over the F-16 debt instruments used from Jordan. According to the Pakistani Secretary of Defense, Alam Khattak, Pakistan received an offer from Jordan to buy some fighter planes. So there is a chance that Belgian F-16s will be resold to Pakistan, a country that houses, among other things, the Taliban. On 14 June 2016, the Rules of Procedure Committee, after receiving the opinion of that committee, approved the proposal to amend Chapter 10, Rule 151 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives, in order to extend the power of the Special Committee on Army Purchases to the sale of military equipment by Defence. The proposal clearly states that all actors must be aware of the need to resell military equipment. From now on, the Special Commission for Army Purchases is not only responsible for military purchases but also for military sales. Mr Minister, are you aware of the possibility that Jordan will resell F-1673 to Pakistan? Have you had any contact with your Jordan colleague on this matter? What is your opinion on this possible sale? What steps will you take in this regard? Finally, the Special Committee on Army Purchases is now also responsible for military sales. We are talking about a sale almost 10 years ago. However, it is important to be able to monitor where our defence equipment is going afterward. However, I am now looking at the chairman of the Special Committee on the Rules of Procedure. When can this work be done?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u74	Mr President, Mr Top, Jordan has indeed bought 25 F-16 debt securities from Belgium in the past. Under the terms of the end-user certificate and the third party transfer, the contracts for the sale of these F-16 debt securities included that the F-16 debt securities cannot be resold without the explicit consent of Belgium, the US and France. So far, defence has not been informed of any possible sale of these ex-Belgian F-16 debt securities by Jordan to Pakistan. As regards your fifth question, concerning the Special Committee on Army Purchases, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is an internal organisation of the Chamber and Parliament. As Secretary of Defense, I have no authority to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u75	Thank you, Minister, for your brief but clear answer. So there can be some peace of mind, because there has to be an authorisation. As far as your answer to my fifth question is concerned, our group naturally also gives the necessary support to allow the Special Committee on Army Purchases to look at these sales. I would like to suggest that I look again at the chairman of the Special Committee on the Rules of Procedure, so that this committee can check sales as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u76	Mr. Minister, on 16 June De Standaard announced that two French-speaking Deputy Chiefs were appointed. For this reason, a Dutch-speaking CHOD can be appointed without compromising the Community balance. On 15 June, the nuclear cabinet met around the current defence themes. During that meeting, Lieutenant General Marc Compernol would have been put forward as successor to current Chief of Staff Gerard Van Caelenberge. The current CHOD will be replaced in mid-July. What's the status of the file? Was the new CHOD appointed by the nuclear cabinet on 15 June? Can you confirm that the strategic plan and the appointment of the CHOD are separate?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u77	Mr Top, I refer to the answers to oral questions No. Mr Yüksel, No 9411. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 9449 of yours, in which I have already mentioned that the procedure for the appointment of Chief of Defence is governed by Article 76 of the Act of 28 February 2007 establishing the status of the military and candidate military forces of the active framework of the Armed Forces. It is an appointment with a royal decision taken by the Council of Ministers. I don't go into specific questions about specific people. But I can tell you that the new Chief of Defense will be appointed if the Council of Ministers ratifys the Royal Decree, and that has not yet been done today. I can also confirm that there is no direct link between discussions on the strategic plan and the appointment of the new Chief of Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u78	Minister, you are referring to the answer to previous questions. I have now asked not about the procedure, but about a state of affairs in the file. It has previously been said that the replacement would take place by 15 July. My question was whether an effective decision was taken at the Council of Ministers, whether or not it has already been published. You reply that nothing has been published yet, but I don't remember anything with that. Has an effective decision been made? As long as the royal decree is not published, I do not even need to know the name, but at least I want to know whether the Council of Ministers has taken a decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u79	Mr Top, I have made it clear that the appointment is carried out by a royal decision taken by the Council of Ministers. The notifications of the Council of Ministers are public. I haven't seen an appointment appear in that yet. So the issue has not yet appeared at the Council of Ministers. As soon as the decision is made, it will be published.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u80	Then I know enough. So there's no decision yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u81	Madam President, Minister, we already knew the extremely long gestation of the elephant. You will soon break all the records with that of your strategic defence plan to eventually give birth to a mouse before the NATO summit. Time's running out. The atmosphere within the government is such that the CD&V – a first that deserves to be emphasized – felt obliged to propose a text to Parliament, which we will discuss in plenary just now, asking the government to finally publish its strategic plan. This government was going to revolutionize Defence. Belgium was to become NATO's best student. Today, the time has come to take stock: still no strategic plan after almost two years, 2 billion record savings, never so few Belgian soldiers have been deployed in operations abroad and the engagement of new soldiers is in a dry state. But above all you promise military purchases for more than $9 billion by reserving the bill for future governments because this government will not pay anything! Minister, when will this government give birth to a strategic defence plan? How do you explain the delay of more than a year in its publication? In substance, will this strategic plan provide for the funding of planned purchases from that government? With what budget commitment will you go to the NATO Summit in Warsaw? What is your ambition? Finally, will this strategic plan answer our questions about the future of the southern military quarters of our country, questions that should normally have been answered by the end of February 2016? Thank you in advance for your answer. With divinatory powers, I think this will be the following: "The strategic plan is currently under discussion within the government. So I can't say anything else."
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u82	I too will summarise my two questions. Minister, when the government was formed in October 2014, you announced a strategic plan that would include the government's vision of defence for the next legislature. We are now almost two years ahead and that plan is still not there. On the one hand, you promised that the budget for our army would gradually rise again, after it had become apparent that our soldiers are on their gums after decades of savings. On the other hand, additional savings have been made at the Department of Defense since the government took office. On 22 December it was announced that the government had approved the plan. That's what we were told. You even presented the main lines in the Chamber with a PowerPoint presentation. However, that PowerPoint presentation is the only thing we have seen of that plan. You spit a lot of fog. It was only afterwards that there was no strategic plan at all. A new attempt in the nuclear cabinet last Wednesday was reported to have yielded nothing. So the government does not agree on this essential plan. However, the military are longing for a decision. Many strategic choices have been postponed for over a year now. Recruitment is also very difficult if there is no long-term perspective per component, or, as you like to call it, per dimension. Meanwhile, there are more domestic assignments, which continue to weigh on the operational preparation and training and also on the formation of new soldiers, while the fallout of new soldiers is high. I therefore have the following four questions for you. What are the remaining pain points in this plan? Why is it still not approved? Is the overall level of ambition still under discussion, i.e. 25 000 men, 9.2 billion in investment by 2030 and 1.3 % of GDP? Will those parameters be changed? Do you also capture voices from the Defense Department begging for a decision, for a vision, for clarity? How do you deal with that? What is the role of the aircraft file in the restructuring of air bases? I thank you for your answer, which will undoubtedly be very comprehensive given the many questions and the long uncertainty that this dossier faces.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u83	Mr President, my question goes in the same direction as the questions put by the other two speakers. I will also give a brief account of the story of the last two years. A long time ago, you suggested a strategic plan for the defense. I refer to the PowerPoint presentation you gave on 13 January 2016. Although it was very concise and without any further detail on paper. Several members of the Defence Committee, including myself, have repeatedly asked questions about the new deadline of the strategic plan. At the meeting of 2 March 2016, you stated: "It is the responsibility of all parties to take sufficient time to reach agreement on this proposal. Of course, a sound strategic plan must be considered. We also understand that the government does not want or can go ice overnight. However, the original deadline, being the Easter holiday of 2015, has been exceeded for over a year. It is now urgent that you either take up your political responsibility and urgently seek an agreement with your fellow Members, or simply shut down the whole idea behind a new strategic plan. If, during the current legislature, you still want to implement measures, there is an effective need for time. I would like to have an answer to the following questions. Firstly, can you set a concrete date against which we will have a detailed version of the strategic plan? Secondly, how intensive are the working groups meeting to reach an agreement? Thirdly, how intensive does your cabinet meet with the trade unions, given their questions about the strategic plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u84	Madam Chair, the document on the Strategic Vision for Defence is in the final phase of government approval. It is based on the decision of the Kern of 22 December, which includes, inter alia, the 25,000 full-time equivalents for staff and the 9.2 billion investment for the period 2020-2030. The importance of defence for our society and the amount of resources needed for defence have indeed made sure that the government has taken the necessary time for the dossier. However, I am convinced that it is only through a strategic vision for defence that an exact interpretation for the future can be defined. Only when an agreement has been reached will concrete implementation dossiers be able to determine, inter alia, the geographical content of the quarters.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u85	If you want, in the future, I will already write the answers to my questions. That way, we'll save time. So we'll talk about it again in 2019, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u86	Of course we can all have a good laugh with it, but actually this is not funny. This is just taking way too long, Minister. The water is really on the lips. The military themselves want a perspective, they want to know where they stand. We, too, are getting signals from the military that a lot of things are being put on hold: investment, purchases, training, expansion of staff in certain components and so on. The deadline has already been well exceeded. I can only continue to insist on results, on a verdict, on white smoke. Hopefully you will take the right solutions in there. I would like to express my displeasure about the show that was staged in the Chamber on 22 December. That was an interesting PowerPoint presentation, not of that. In fact, we've been sent out with a brat in the reeds. We were under the assumption that the strategic plan was presented there, but there is no strategic plan yet and that cannot be proposed on 22 December. Things must also be done correctly with regard to information to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u87	Mr Minister, I can only confirm the replies of my fellow Members. It's taking way too long. Mr De Vriendt spoke about the water that is on the lips. The water is probably very high in Limburg and therefore with you, to get it approved by the government. Firstly, I refer to the many uncertainties experienced by the military. The workload is high in any case, partly because of the many efforts to be made for internal security, but also because of the savings that have been made during this period of government. Secondly, with regard to our partners, we are once again making a mockery of simply not making decisions. Thirdly, necessary investments, whether they are good or not, are insisting. However, even for the investments already approved by previous governments, we still have no idea what will happen to them today. That'll be dust for another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u88	Minister, on May 31, you presented to us in committee your reform of parastatals from your ministry. In this context, we have found that many issues remain outstanding, particularly as regards the consultation with staff or the creation of a new cross-cutting body called upon to take over certain competences of the IV-INIG, which would simply disappear. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. IV-INIG was the real anchor at the federal level of memory work. Is this disappearance not affecting this federal anchor? What will be the consequences for the beneficiaries? What will be the future of certain memory transmission missions such as providing free information to the public and the media or projects such as the Belgian War Dead Register? With regard to the creation of a new type B parastatal, could you tell me why this legal form was retained? Where will it be established and what will be the composition of its management bodies, including the Board of Directors? Indeed, you indicate that the cross-sectional structure is still a hypothesis. What are the assumptions on the government table in this regard? As far as the future of the MRA is concerned, you told us that the renovation of its infrastructure would be based on a public-private partnership. Is this announcement not paradoxical when your colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments has announced a plan for the renovation of the buildings of the Musée des Beaux-Arts and those of the Parc du Cinquantenaire, including the MRA? In addition, you indicate that the operation will be entirely entrusted to a private partner. How do you justify such a decision? What safeguards will be imposed on this private partner? Is there not a risk of literally privatizing a public institution? You also told us that this reform will save EUR 20 million for investments in the MRA. Can you assure us that these 20 million are well guaranteed under the principle of the envelope and are not once again taken up in a budgetary conclave? For the accommodation of MRA scientific collaborators, you indicate that you want to find premises within the ERM. Do these premises already exist or would they come from the disappearance of certain functions/trainings/services of the future ERM? Finally, regarding the future location of the IGN, can you assure us that it will be located in the Brussels Region?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u89	Madam Chair, Mr Pirlot, the reform plan was presented in detail to the Defence Committee on May 31, 2016. During these exchanges of views, I also answered various questions about the future of parastatals and you can read the report COM 430 of 31 May 2016 which is about 20 pages long. I have it here, if you want to read it. Meanwhile, the staff and boards of the institutions concerned have also been informed of this comprehensive reform plan. However, as a reminder, it has been communicated that, in terms of personnel, all the employees who are currently working in parastatals, under my supervision, find a place in the new structures. By 2030, all military personnel will have disappeared from these structures, either due to voluntary departure, reclassification to Defence, or retirement by reaching the age limit. The final management structure and the implementation of the new Category B public interest organization, which will be the new federal anchor for memory work and military heritage, will be implemented by an ad hoc working group. This working group will also carry out the necessary museum studies as part of the Public-Private Partnership (PPP) project. The renovation of the roofs by the Régie des Bâtiments makes it possible to clean up the envelope of the building and is complementary to the interior renovations that will have to be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u90	Minister, simply, in relation to the envelope...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u91	That is why we have presented a comprehensive plan for all parastatals. Nothing has been done at the MRE level for about 20 years, without wanting to designate a culprit. It is important to present a comprehensive plan for parastatals so that we are sure that we will block the necessary funds. That is why we are moving towards a PPP, because, in the context of this kind of partnership, it is certain that it is for the long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u92	Minister, my question was not controversial. I just wanted technical information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u93	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Top's 12573 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u94	Madam President, Minister, I have a very brief question. Hopefully the roles will be reversed and the answer is now very extensive. First, can you provide a detailed state of play regarding the purchase file of the A400M and the timing of delivery, given the delay? Secondly, to what do we owe this delay? Thirdly, what is your response as Minister? Are you waiting or can you take certain steps in this purchase file?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u95	Madam President, Minister, last year you said in response to one of my questions in this committee that there was no budget available in 2015 to start investments in Melsbroek. The infrastructure works were postponed as the cost price is on the high side. However, the choice not to start the investments has implications for the A400Ms, which will be delivered from 2018. After all, the aircraft would be delivered in Melsbroek. Only Bevekom can offer a possible option for the delivery and storage of the A400Ms, subject to adjustments. Other military airports are apparently much less or not at all an option. Can infrastructure work start in 2016 or 2017? If not, what consequences does this have for the first delivery of the A400M? If the infrastructure in Melsbroek is not ready in time, will the aircraft be housed in Bevekom? What financial costs are linked to the changes in Bevekom?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u96	Madam President, Mr De Vriendt, Mr Top, there are currently contractual negotiations between industry and the countries concerned which have purchased the A400M, with the capacitor milestones on the one hand and the individual delivery dates of the aircraft to be delivered on a (new) timeline on the other hand, in my preparatory text, the word "new' is in brackets. So there are problems with capacious milestones, as foreseen. Belgium will be fully involved in the ongoing contractual negotiations, which will have to be completed by the end of 2016. The current global slowdown is due inter alia to technical problems, slower production and delays in the development and certification of a number of complex military capabilities. It is too early to assess whether there will be delays in the deliveries planned for our country and Luxembourg, you know that this is about one package. Defence is currently investigating what is the most appropriate form of contract within the allocated budget envelope to have the necessary infrastructure available in Melsbroek by the time of delivery of the A400M, still planned for the time being from 2019, so that the new system can be supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u97	Minister, you are talking about the technical problems. These have, of course, been known and have already been mentioned. Questions have already been asked about the A400M. I have two reservations. A first thought is about the technical problems in production and delivery. As you have already indicated, it is unclear whether this would lead to a possible delay in the delivery of the A400M. However, I am linking this to the current situation or to the aircraft we have today, namely the C-130 dynamometers. Should there be a delay in delivery, this will of course also have an impact on the deployment of our C-130 dynamometers. The question therefore arises as to how far we can still maintain these devices and keep them air-like. Should we not seek an interim solution to this problem? My second comment is this. As there is still no conclusion on a possible delay, there is time to make a final decision on the adjustments for Melsbroek or the stocking of the aircraft.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u98	Mr Top, I can give you a reassuring answer to both questions. Firstly, we are indeed considering what should be done with the C-130s in the event of delays. However, no delay has been announced today. So today we cannot know whether it will be yes or no. However, we have already asked the defence staff to consider what measures could be taken in order to continue to use the C-130s for a little longer if necessary. Secondly, I note very well what you say about infrastructure. We are working on it and will take a decision on it in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u99	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Top's 12770 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Vriendt's 12796 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u100	Madam President, Minister, last week a Belgian military vehicle of the type Mercedes Benz U 1350 Unimog was involved in a traffic accident at the Brussels ring in Saint-Stevens-Woluwe, in which six soldiers were injured, three of whom were seriously injured. The photographs of the accident clearly showed that the loading bay of this type of vehicle, in which the soldiers are in transport to their operations, is equipped with a bench construction made of wood and metal which offers little protection to the occupants in terms of road safety. Mr Minister, are these vehicles equipped with seat belts for the occupants? If not, why not? That will probably be the case with other of those vehicles. With a view to continuing Operation Homeland because of the continuing threat of terrorism, it may be desirable to equip these vehicles with the necessary safety belts, etc., so that the military can be transported safely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u101	Madam President, Mr Yüksel, the loading dock of the Unimog U 1350 is equipped with seats with adjustable hip belts per two persons. These are two-point belts which run over the front of the carrier's pelvis. The lap belts reduce the risk of injuries in the event of collisions or sudden deceleration, as the movement of the body is limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u102	So there's no problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u103	I didn't say there was no problem. There are hip belts, but it can always be better.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u104	It is regrettable that there are serious injuries when soldiers go to or return from an assignment and become involved in an accident. It is perhaps a good thing, Minister, to have this matter checked and put the right seat belts in the vehicles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u105	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u106	They also need to be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u107	Madam President, Minister, the NATO summit of Heads of State and Government will take place in Warsaw on 8 and 9 July. In preparation for that summit, NATO Member States' Defence Ministers met on 14 June. There, agreements were made to increase defence and deterrence measures by building a strong presence in eastern Europe. For example, more military exercises, enhanced airspace surveillance and four robust multinational battalions are stationed on a rotational basis in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. You have indicated that our country will also contribute to a Benelux framework. What contribution do you provide? Are you suggesting a reinforcement of our current contribution? How do you intend to implement a Benelux framework in concrete terms? Have agreements already been made with the Netherlands and Luxembourg? What agreements were then made in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u108	Mr Yüksel, Belgium wants to contribute to the additional rotational strengthening of the military alliance in Eastern Europe decided at the NATO meeting of the Defence Ministers on 14 and 15 June 2016, in addition to the efforts we are already making within the framework of the reassurance measures of the relief action plan. It is in our intention to be able to make our contribution in the course of 2017. Given the intensive use of our military both at home and abroad, the participation should be done in conjunction with other countries. A commitment within the Benelux framework therefore seems to be the most appropriate option. No concrete agreements have yet been reached with Luxembourg and the Netherlands, but the necessary steps will be taken as soon as possible. This was at the time of preparation. I have now had a bilateral meeting with my Luxembourg colleague, who has also expressed the same wish. We have contacted our Dutch colleague informally, through the respective employees. We will meet in the contexts of the NATO summit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u109	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u110	Minister, this issue has already been raised. Now that our F-16s have left and will be operating reconnaissance flights from the day after tomorrow, it is important that the communication technology on board these devices can remain in contact with the ground. General Vansina, the Chief of the Air Component, has confirmed that there are problems in this area. Those problems are not limited to the Belgian F-16 pesetas. The Dutch, the Danes, the Norwegians and the Portuguese also have the same problem. Apparently, it's possible to build in a new type of radio. Which countries other than the ones mentioned above have the same problem? Will you have a new type of radio installed? If that is the case, where will the budget come from and what will the financial impact be?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u111	(...) However, by installing satellite communications, quality can be improved and these intermediate stations will no longer be needed. That's basically what it's all about. A programme for the deployment of SATCOM capacity is under development in Belgium, together with the European partner countries Denmark, the Netherlands, Norway and Portugal. The recently redesigned radio sets in the Belgian F-16... have already been adapted for SATCOM.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u112	Minister, from your answer, do I understand that there are no major problems at the moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u113	If we look at the entire area of operation in the Middle East where we will be active, it would be about 3% of the potential deployments. If it's not safe, that's the job of the people in the CEOC. They shall assess the risk analysis. It must also be known that for an intervention on a status goal that continuous, direct communication is not necessary at all times. There are a number of technical elements involved, but it concerns 3 % of the commands. You also know that we are not the only country that participates in the international coalition with F-16. Where appropriate, those specific missions may be carried out by partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic457x.u114	I would like to say the following. The Dutch also said at that time that it also poses a problem for them. Even if it is 3% of the total number of flights, even if it is one or two flights, radio communications are still essential. For static targets, so far, but what if our planes get into areas where there's danger to the planes and the pilots? I think we should take that with us. I look forward to adjusting satellite communications.
