ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u1	It is with great pleasure that we welcome the Minister for a series of oral questions. Some colleagues are even more pleased with this session than I am.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u2	Mrs Lalieux, I give you the floor to put your first question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u3	Mr President, this is a question I tabled on October 2, 2015. I understand that the March 22 committee meeting was cancelled. However, you will admit that the deadline for dealing with the issue between October 2 and March 22 is a bit long. The item was brought to the attention of the Conference of Presidents. I am making a formal request to the minister. I hope that at least every month it will be able to answer questions on energy. It is not possible to file questions for which the answer takes five months. The current situation is changing and we know that in plenary we can only ask two topical questions, which limits the subjects. Mr President, I would ask that you organize with the minister's office to ensure that questions are dealt with more quickly, as is done in other committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u4	Mr President, I would like to speak not only on the same point but in the same direction as my colleague, Mrs Lalieux. I find this really problematic for the consistency of our work and for Parliament's ability to control the government's action. Mrs Lalieux's question dates back to 2 October, mine to 8 October. The problem is exactly the same. The 22nd of March excuse doesn't change anything. I would also like to see what Mrs Lalieux is proposing put in place so that we can be reassured on both sides, and that we can have this opportunity, on such fundamental issues as energy, to have the Minister's answers at least once a month, so that Parliament can exercise its right of control over the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have never refused to come to answer questions in committee. It is a matter of organisation that is going very well in the Committee on the Environment. I have been doing the survey since 13 October, week after week, of the work of your commission. I will go through it with you so that we can see together that, first of all, and this is a first difficulty, this committee must pass on the work of several ministers and, second, that our work has sometimes probably prevented other meetings of the committee. Thus, the week of 13 October was dedicated to the debate on the government's policy note. On 20 October, there were oral questions to Mr Peeters and the proposed law on business hours. On October 27, we worked on the study of CREG and Elia's hearing. On 28 October, the hearing on the agricultural crisis was held, followed by the Toussaint's week off. On 10 November, Mr. Borsus's questions were discussed, the draft law on opening hours and the draft law on the social status of self-employed persons. I can go on like this... I give you a list of all the work that has been done, in which it is said that other ministers wish to be heard. For example, from 15 December onwards, we have the amendments to the programme law; on 12 January and 19 January, the text on the fee, as well as on 26 January; on 2 February, the text on the fee; on the week of 16 February, the fee at first reading. Every week is busy, Mr. President. I'll give you that note. I ask you to join us in our work and send it to the Speaker of the House for the next Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u6	Mr President, as the minister is of good will and says that she has never refused to come to committee, I propose to you as in the Infrastructure Committee with the minister who directly agreed in this way to set the meetings until 21 July. It can be done outside of Tuesday, I don't care. Thus, we are sure that the minister will be present. I propose to send the agenda to all members.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u7	The organisation of the Commission shall also be the responsibility of the President. I think we haven't been out of work since October.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u8	Mr President, we have never said that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u9	The record I have at my disposal can attest to that. We have five ministers. Projects are a priority. A turning point exists with the responses of the various ministers. Colleagues have wished at some point that we pass the bill. At other times, they wanted us to spend time there. Special hearing days were held in various sectors, particularly in the field of agriculture. The problem with the agenda is that every week, when there is an opportunity window, the minister must be available. We will ensure that ministers answer questions on a regular basis, with the exception of Mr Reynders, who comes less regularly. Sometimes questions are postponed, like this morning because Mr. Peeters was representing the government elsewhere. If we can consider the incident closed, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u10	Mr President, practically the morning has been moved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u11	It was cancelled yesterday by Mr. Peeters, who represented the government. We will fix it in the calendar according to other contingencies. We know that projects are a priority. There is one particular project by Mr Borsus. I'll put the questions to Mr Peeters at another time. We will see what can be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u12	Mr President, I would like to ask the ministers once a month.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u13	If we have to question each minister once a month, four ministers are involved, do the account!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u14	I have been told that a number of articles of the DLU quater would be submitted to our committee for consideration. Do you have a timing on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u15	It seems that work should start next Tuesday, in the afternoon. But this information has yet to be confirmed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u16	Mr President, since I already take part in the Committee on the Environment on Wednesday afternoon, we could alternate. In other words, I could be present in this committee every other afternoon. The work should, of course, be organised taking into account the availability and agendas of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u17	I take note of your proposal, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u18	Mr President, Madam Minister, the current legal framework does not allow subsidies to be paid for the construction of an atoll in the North Sea through the state budget or through consumer bills. For my group, this legal framework must be absolutely respected. On 24 July, the Council of Ministers discussed the issue of granting the concession for an energy atoll in the North Sea. The Council of Ministers did not resolve the issue and asked Elia and DG Energy to estimate the need in terms of flexibility, including storage. In the light of these estimates, the Council of Ministers has announced that it will take a decision on the allocation of the concession for an energy atoll by 31 October 2015 – obviously my question needs to be updated! Minister, can you give us more information on the allocation of the North Sea Energy Atoll Concession? What do the estimates requested by Elia and DG Energy reveal? Can you assure us that no subsidies are planned to finance this private project, whether through the state budget, consumer bills or transport network tariffs? Finally, do you confirm that a decision regarding the award of the concession was taken before October 31, 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u19	Mrs Lalieux, I will answer you in a way that takes into account the flow of time and gives meaning to your question. Indeed, remember, you had several questions to ask on October 2nd and you could not be present in committee on October 8th, which explains why it is answered today. Storage has been shown to be one of the most appropriate forms of flexibility to which I refer, in the framework of the study launched by the Energy DG of the SPF Economy and in the framework of the seminar which was associated on 8 May 2015 in Coo. This study is entitled "Estimating the need for flexibility, including storage by 2020, taking into account developments in the share of renewable energy in the energy mix". It gave precise figures and was intended to analyse the possibilities of increasing units based on pumping-turbinage in Belgium. Although attractive in principle, the importance of civil engineering works and the low drop height of the atoll have caused a cost per MWh too high for this project to provide sufficient guarantees as to its profitability, which is why, for the time being, the Council of Ministers has asked the operator to review its business kit. As a result, the Council of Ministers of 24 April 2015 instructed me to analyse the additional storage possibilities, which I have continued, taking into account the ever-increasing share of renewable energies. I had therefore asked Elia and DG Energy to estimate the need in terms of flexibility, including storage on the basis of scenarios relating to the share of renewable energy in the energy mix by 2020, taking into account the European context, after consultation with the Regions. This analysis, which dates back to mid-2015, will be presented to the Council of Ministers with other measures, which are the result of the other study I recently commissioned in Elia and which I spoke to you about last Thursday. I can already tell you that this study shows us that we must expect a sharp increase in the need for flexibility due to the growth of renewable energy sources. This flexibility must first be sought on the part of market participants and be based on a diversified offer, guaranteeing its availability at all times. It will therefore be the gas units, demand management, pumping-turbining and imports which, through the combined possibilities they offer, will enable us to meet our needs. The legal framework established by Article 6/1 of the Law of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market explicitly provides that hydropower storage facilities in marine areas under Belgian jurisdiction – as in the case of the project – cannot benefit from the support mechanism for electricity produced from renewable energy sources or from any other form of subsidies or financial assistance from the State or the electricity consumer. The concessionaire must therefore derive its revenues from the energy services it will provide to the market. The study that the TSO produced, in response to my request last December, as it determines for the period 2017-2027 - year by year - our needs in terms of power and flexibility and the means to provide it, will help us to propose a comprehensive plan to ensure the transition to the out phase of nuclear power. This plan must guarantee our security of supply through a structural block in which gas units, storage and demand management will be the essential support for the development of renewable energies, to which they will give their full coherence. In short, they are reviewing their project. As soon as they are ready, they will of course be able to return. I would remind you that the 1999 legal framework must be strictly respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u20	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that we will not derogate from the law you mentioned. On the basis of the study of 24 April 2015, you will submit proposals to the Council of Ministers. Do you have a timing in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u21	The Council of Ministers responded in April 2015. The study is later, as it dates from September of the same year. The other study dates back to December.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u22	But what's your timing? Will the security of supply plan be incorporated into the Energy Pact or will you submit proposals next to them based on the studies you have again commissioned?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u23	This is not entirely beside the Energy Pact, which must be the final point of the convergence of the work of the Regions and the Federal Republic, as I explained to you in plenary. All the studies that allow us to make proposals for the federal government, i.e. the national network, interconnections, means of production and flexibility of the national, will be brought together in a "package" that I would like to present before the parliamentary holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u24	Do you mean this year's vacation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u25	Yes, as I also explained to you last Thursday, I asked 72 speakers - and a 73rd one added up - to answer a series of questions about the last study of Elias that I commissioned last December and whose results have arrived. It'll be May 22nd.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u26	Mr. Wilrycx is sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u27	Mr. President, Minister, the operators of service stations have an obligation to clean up the soil in the event of pollution. To help them financially, a sanitation fund was established by a cooperation agreement between the three regions and the federal government in 2002. The Service Station Soil Remediation Fund has two sources of funding. Half of the costs are borne by the oil sector, the other half by motorists. The final remediation of the service stations will be completed at the end of 2019. There is a regular question of expanding the missions of this fund so that individuals can also have support when faced with clean-up work on oil tanks used for heating – there are many of them. This is positive because this type of clean-up can be very costly. On page 102, the government's agreement states: "In cooperation with the Regions, the government will set up a fund to combat soil pollution caused by liquid fuels for heating purposes", i.e. fuel oil tanks. I would therefore like to know the state of play of your project: what is the status of the consultation with the Regions? Is a cooperation agreement finalized? When is it expected that this fund will begin to support individuals? Will the aid also be available to legal persons? Finally, what financial resources will be mobilised?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u28	Mr President, Minister, the government agreement states that the government, in cooperation with the Regions, will set up a fund to tackle soil pollution caused by liquid fuels for heating purposes. During this term of office, I asked you two written questions on this subject. Your last answer to my question of 16 June 2015 offered a reasonably quick solution. You said that, in cooperation with the finance and economic ministers, a federal dossier was drawn up in order to define a joint and united federal mandate to enter into negotiations with the regions. As soon as the Council of Ministers had approved this dossier, it would continue the process of finally reaching a cooperation agreement. You would not fail to keep me informed of the progress of this dossier. My written question at that time said that we had already been five months, but I have to change that now because ten months have already passed and I have not received any news on this dossier. Madam Secretary, could you explain the content of the case at federal level? Was the federal dossier proposed to establish a unified federal mandate to enter into negotiations with the Regions at the Council of Ministers? If so, what decision was taken? If not, when will it appear at the Council of Ministers? When will the negotiations with the Regions take place? When do you want this file completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you of the following. I refer immediately to my answers to questions asked earlier on this subject. Indeed, the federal agreement contains the government's commitment to establish, in cooperation with the Regions, a fund to combat soil pollution caused by liquid fuels for heating purposes. This dossier was initiated at the meeting of the Interdepartmental Conference on the Environment on 12 November 2014. At this meeting, the federal and the Regions agreed on the following plan. The Flemish Region will restart a working group to evaluate the current draft cooperation agreement. A consultation with the petroleum sector will then be organised. Depending on this evaluation and consultation, any necessary changes will be made. Finally, there is a commitment that the cooperation agreement will be approved by the regional and federal governments in the course of 2016 in order to arrive at a rapid establishment of the fund to address soil pollution caused by liquid fuels for heating purposes. In any case, under the direction of my cabinet and in cooperation with the Finance and Economy offices, a federal file was created to define a joint and unanimous federal mandate before entering into negotiations with the Regions. As soon as the Council of Ministers has approved the dossier, the plan to reach a cooperation agreement will be continued. The objective is to achieve a balanced, high-quality and legally founded cooperation agreement. The start date of the new fund, as well as the method of financing it, will also be the subject of negotiations with the Regions. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u30	Mr President, Madam Minister, if I have understood correctly, since November 2014, Flanders has been making an evaluation. A federal file must be submitted to the Council of Ministers, but it has not yet been submitted. There is, therefore, no progress on this cooperation agreement and on the essential possibility of extending this fund to individuals for their fuel tank. Minister, you didn't give a timing as to when you're going to file your federal file, so you can only start negotiating with the Regions, or timing for the start-up of the fund, since everything has yet to be done, if I'm not mistaken. I will return to this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u31	Madam Secretary, indeed, it must be a balanced agreement. I simply note that we have been asking questions about this since the beginning of the legislature. I even think that my first written question in my parliamentary career was about this. I regret that this is being put on the long track. A balanced agreement, yes, but no deadline and no progress is being made. I regret that, Madam Secretary. I will ask again about this, just like Mrs Lalieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u32	Mr President, this question concerns, in fact, statements made in October 2015. It's a little complicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u33	These are not topical issues here!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u34	No, but the government's control is also a little closer, as my colleague, Mr.Nollet, reminded us. Madam Minister, your decision to extend Doel 1 and Doel 2 locks our country in a great deal of dependence on nuclear power and mortgages the phase-out of nuclear power by 2025; we will be discussing this very soon as the opinions of the Council of State on the amendments have come to us. During the debates on the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, we asked you, without ever getting an answer, what your strategy was to ensure the effective exit of nuclear power in 2025. Since we do not see anything coming from this energy transition or from the pact with the Regions, you will understand our concerns about the actual release of nuclear power in 2025. Without ever presenting us with a solid plan, however, this extension is contradictory to your stated willingness to maintain the exit of nuclear power in 2025. In the De Tijd newspaper of 3 October, you once again cast doubt and confusion by evoking the possibility of prolonging nuclear power beyond 2025. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions, hoping to obtain an reasoned answer. Minister, are your statements such as to strengthen – even if you said otherwise during the debate – the stability required for investments in electricity production? It is always said that if nuclear power is extended, other investors will not come forward because their investments will never be profitable. Do you consider that the release of nuclear power in 2025 is still feasible after your decision to extend Doel 1 and 2? If so, what specific steps will you take to achieve the closure of the seven nuclear power plants by 2025?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u35	Mr President, Mrs Lalieux, since we are in historiography, I obviously took up the article in the newspaper De Tijd of 3 October 2015 and your question of 6 October, when your question was very topical! The journalist asks me a question that you often ask, whether the time will be enough to get out of nuclear power quickly, given the extension of Tihange 1, Doel 1 and Doel 2 and the shortening of the nuclear exit period between 2023 and 2025. I tell him I can't guarantee success. As the journalist is very insistent, I answer him in the affirmative, arguing that Germany did it well. I add that I can only create a completely stable framework and the new government, in 2019, can choose another path. I say that in relation to the future. I have repeated it many times, I am in a configuration where the framework laid down by the 2003 law of exit from nuclear power in 2025 is respected. The decision to extend Doel 1 and Doel 2 is part of the government agreement. It is a government decision with a government agreement that does not plan to go beyond 2025. It is necessary to anticipate this, hence your question about the energy pact, and to implement all the measures necessary to facilitate the energy transition. I am therefore preparing, on the basis of various studies, in particular the TSO and the CREG, a comprehensive plan aimed at implementing measures to enable this phase out. My action concerns the release of nuclear power plants and the seven power plants by 2025, within the framework of the government agreement, which determines the various axes which will constitute the structure of the overall plan. This plan aims to maintain existing units, to build new units but also and above all, is based on storage and demand management, which, in addition to the powers they represent, constitute the flexibility tools that we need to balance the renewable energies that are going to grow in power but whose intermittentness and difficult predictability are well known, in order to enable their development. So it's always the same framework. It has not changed since October 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answers. When you say that the new government will be able to change its course, we know that with the agreement between this government and Electrabel, it will not be possible unless very high compensation is paid. With regard to the release of nuclear power, we know that the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 is a reality – perhaps more for a long time. Your phasing out is not a reality at all because there is absolutely nothing to come about in terms of storage, flexibility and demand management! It is so much easier to say that power plants will continue to turn and shake hands with a dominant operator!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u37	We come to agenda item 33, Question No 6706 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin. As much as I understand the desire of colleagues to be able to ask questions on a regular basis, I invite them to come and ask them when they are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u38	Ms. Jadin asked for her question to be converted into a written question. It's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u39	I take note of this, but the principle is that if a colleague has not come forward and his or her question comes to the agenda, the question becomes moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u40	I wanted to protest, Mr. President, so that you wouldn't remove my question. Madam Minister, following the relevant criticisms of CREG about how Elia determines the risk of electricity shortages, you brought the various actors together in your office a while ago. What is the outcome of this meeting? Will you accept the regulator's legitimate request to scale the strategic reserve itself, or will you continue to leave this essential work in the hands of a private actor listed on the stock exchange for whom a conflict of interest has been identified in the CREG report? Did you finally require Elia to publish on her website not only her final analysis report, but also the assumptions, databases and calculation models underlying this report? If so, within what time frame? Who are the experts from the academic community who will now assist the Energy Administration in its work of verifying Elia's calculations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u41	Mr President, Mr Nollet, I confirm that DG Energy is now assisted, as I have already had the opportunity to say by answering your questions in committee, by two experts, one French speaking and one Dutch speaking, Mr Albrecht and Mrs Cantillon, from the academic community, in order to enable DG Energy to give better reasons for its opinions on the need to use the mechanisms of the strategic reserve in the context of its evaluation. After I brought together, as you will recall, the two stakeholders, CREG and Elia, to strengthen the links of their collaboration and ask them to refine their analyses, the TSO responded very broadly to my request and improved its evaluation process. The methods, models, data used, as well as many technical and meteorological elements, were widely communicated during the evaluation of this strategic reserve last November. A level of transparency has never been achieved in the implementation of this procedure. There is always a way to do better and we are trying to refine the evaluation of the strategic reserve as much as possible, among other things.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u42	Mr President, I take note of the fact that I am still hungry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u43	Mr President, Minister, my question dates from 30 October. It may be that a number of things are already outdated, but I am just going to ask my question as I have submitted them. Perhaps you can give me a current state of affairs. It concerns the State's support for a possible expansion of energy storage in Coo. There is some uncertainty about the statements made by yourself and the then Secretary of State for the North Sea, Mr Tommelein. In your reply to my written question of July 2015 on the energy atoll, you indicated that the energy atoll and an expansion of the energy storage plant in Coo are two projects that differ greatly. For example, Coo's site already has the advantage of having the bottom reservoir used for Coo 1 and Coo 2, along with a capacity of 1 165 megawatts and they have been working without much problem for 45 years. The cost of the Coo 3 project is about 600 million euros for 600 megawatts. With regard to the energy atoll dossier, you replied that the Council of Ministers instructed you to ensure that the necessary adjustments are made in accordance with Article 6.1 of the Electricity Act, which means that the federal government can provide support as long as it is not of a financial nature. At the end of September, the then Secretary of State for the North Sea said in the media that he would propose to the government not to grant a concession to iLand for the construction of an energy atoll. According to the media, however, you would have understood that an energy storage facility in Coo could actually receive subsidies. Other statements were made earlier on the subject. This raised a number of questions for me. Firstly, has the Council of Ministers already taken a final decision on the granting of the concession for the construction of an energy atoll? If so, when and what is the final decision? Secondly, as stated in Article 6.1 of the Electricity Act, the Energy Atoll project will not be able to benefit from financial support from the federal government. Will an expansion of energy storage in Coo benefit from financial support from the federal government? I would like to make that clear. Thirdly, do you support the project to expand the energy storage plant in Coo? What is the state of play with regard to this enlargement? When will there be sufficient visibility of the cost picture and funding?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u44	Mrs Dierick, thank you for your question. I have already answered in part some of your questions in my answer earlier to the question of the same type asked by Mrs Lalieux. I will now complete with the following elements for you. The storage of electrical energy via pump storage of electricity is an adult technology. This type of unit makes it possible to promote the balancing of the grid, to promote the integration of renewable energy sources, to ensure greater flexibility in our production park and to improve our security of supply. The project to extend the production capacity of the Coo plant from 1,200 to 1,800 megawatts represents an estimated cost of EUR 600 million and is in line with this objective. It will require four to five years of work as soon as all regional and federal permits are finalized. Tools, such as the Juncker Plan, may have a significant impact on the funding arrangements for such projects. A clear, stable, regulatory and economic framework is essential for the realisation of such projects. I would like to encourage such investments and follow the advice of the CREG by first removing the existing barriers created by tariffs, taxes, surcharges and other obligations such as charges and injections. These are double loads and they also constitute a brake for this type of storage. These barriers have already been abolished by our neighbouring countries. Some other electrical energy storage technologies are likely to undergo major developments and meet the needs of the electrical system within a few years. But as it stands, no system offers this level of performance and reliability. I recall that these facilities have been running smoothly for almost half a century and will continue to do so for decades. I add that they are so well integrated on the landscape, in fact they are almost invisible since underground, that the site is a major tourist center in Ardenne. These plants go almost immediately from standstill to maximum force and are modulateable, both in pumpage and in turbinage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u45	Madam Minister, you refer in your answer to Mrs Lalieux's questions. I haven't heard them myself, so I don't know if there's more information in there than I asked. I will certainly look into that further. The current situation is that you are following the CREG's opinion and will remove a number of obstacles, I understand. You said about Coo that this is an important investment and that the opinion of the CREG states that this can be done, but that the obstacles must first be removed, which makes it worthwhile to invest in it. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u46	My dear colleague, I will transmit to you the written version of the answer I gave earlier to Mrs Lalieux's question. However, with regard to the government's decision on energy atoll, you should know that the business case of the contractors was not in conformity with the legal requirement of the law of 29 April 1999 which prohibits any support for this type of production and storage. The business case must therefore be reviewed. Entrepreneurs still have the opportunity to present a new one, but they will have to strictly respect the legal framework. Everything is still possible, but the law must be respected, in particular article 6/1 of the Act of 29 April 1999. That is the answer I gave to Mrs Lalieux earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u47	Thank you for your answer. I will await the answer you gave to Mrs Lalieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u48	Mr. Senesael is apologised.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u49	Mr President, this question may be somewhat out of date, which is why I have added a more recent one. However, I shall ask the question as I put it at the time. Madam Secretary, three wind farms in the North Sea are operational, namely North Sea Power, Northwind and Belwind, with a total capacity of 712 megawatts. In the coming years this capacity will increase due to the construction of five new wind turbine parks. Once these parks are realized, our country will have a total capacity of 2 200 megawatts. In July 2015, I asked a written question about the old and new support mechanism of offshore wind farms. The existing offshore parks will retain the old support. Only the five offshore parks still to be built will be covered by the new support mechanism, with support depending on the price of electricity. Given the low electricity price, the new support system will not lower the price much, but certainly not more expensive. You said in reply to a question in the plenary session of 20 October 2015 that a study was ordered from the CREG. A CREG report shows that there is now oversubsidisation. You would therefore like to intervene. Hence the following questions. What conclusions can you draw from the CREG study? What consequences will you have? Will you review the support mechanism for offshore wind energy again? Will you also carry out a cost-benefit analysis to weigh the cost against the benefits? The uncertainty as to whether or not the support mechanism will be reviewed can create uncertainty in the still to be built wind farms in the North Sea. A reduction in subsidies could potentially jeopardise construction. Clarity about this reform is therefore very important. When can they get here?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u50	Mr President, Madam Minister, at the exchange we had in committee on 8 October last, you confirmed to me that the government had instructed you since 25 June to analyse and, if necessary, to make a proposal by 31 December 2015 on the offshore energy support scheme. I quote from you that "both the elements relating to the LCOE of 138 euros per MWh and the 12 euros per MWh for the financing of the cable connection and the following elements will have to be analysed." The newspaper L'Echo of December 23rd tells us that, if you have decided well on the LCOE, by showing yourself more generous than what is advocated by the CREG – which, for the shareholders of Elicio, namely Nethys, the former Tecteo, represents a price of 8% more than what the CREG considered reasonable – you do not seem to have decided anything about the additional support that will be given to the two parks with regard to their connection. My question is, then, what exactly is the situation? What have you decided? What still has to be? For when? I complete the question with the information that came out on April 21st about the fact that the person who works on this issue at your home works in parallel for the Nethys group, precisely, shareholder of the Belgian offshore. This double cap is, to say the least, embarrassing. I would also like you to have a clear explanation of this part of the case, which perhaps justifies the previously criticized figures. The information that I submit to you is subsequent to the filing of my initial question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u51	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Hedebouw is present in the Chamber and asks this question. So I assume you'll hear the answer at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u52	I do propose to stick to the original question and to come to this point when it is discussed in the agenda (under item 57). The Minister may reserve this item to the question that will come further on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u53	Minister, while we were waiting for the end of 2015, the bill to amend the offshore wind support regime is still not tabled on the benches of Parliament. This bill was placed on the agenda of the Council of Ministers at first reading on 4 March 2016 and, at the exchange of views on 1 March on the follow-up to COP21 at the level of Belgian policy, you announced that it would soon be tabled on the benches of parliament. On 31 March, we learned from the press that this change in support for offshore wind energy had been notified to the European Commission's Competition DG. Minister, what stage of the notification process is this amendment to the offshore wind farm support mechanism? What are the comments made by the Competition DG on this subject? When are you going to table this bill on the benches of our Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u54	Madam Minister, at the end of July 2015, the CREG was commissioned to evaluate the support mechanism for offshore wind energy. That study was published in the meantime and the government has already decided to adapt the support mechanism to counter oversubsidisation. The coalition agreement also included that the government would ask Elia and the sector to develop an offshore wind farm outlet in a cost-effective way. I have the following questions about this. What is the status of the review of the mechanism for subsidising offshore wind farms? When can we expect the draft announced in Parliament? How much will the annual cost be for supporting all offshore wind farms? What is the current cost of the past five years? What will be the cost of the new mechanism? Will the new support mechanism reduce contributions to families? If so, how many? Finally, the concept of an offshore power outlet is worked out by Elia and the offshore wind farms. What is the state of this effect? What steps still need to be taken to achieve this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u55	Mr President, the measures taken by the Council of Ministers on 20 November are based on the calculations and recommendations made by CREG. However, for the amendment of the LCOE, the Council of Ministers preferred to opt for a fixed LCOE with one or more parameters allowing to take account of the specificity per park rather than for a specific LCOE per park. For wind farms whose financial closure would take place no later than 31 December 2016, the principle is to maintain an LCOE of EUR 138 per MWh based on an annual operating regime of 3,500 hours equivalent full load reduced by EUR 2 per additional tranche of 100 hours equivalent full load beyond 3,500 hours. For parks whose financial closure would take place from 1 January 2017, the LCOE is fixed at 132 euros on the basis of an annual production regime of 3,800 hours full equivalent charge reduced by 2 euros per additional 100 hours full equivalent charge beyond 3,800 hours. The new system has the advantage of using an objective criterion for differentiation identified as such by CREG. This solution also helps to maintain a sufficient incentive for offshore wind producers to optimize their cost structure and production. Mrs Dierick, regarding the annual price of support for all offshore wind farms, the current price over the last five years and the price for the new mechanism, I have a table that I can give you. It shows that between 2011 and 2015, for example, the support price in EUR million rose from 76 to 273 and GWh production in 2011 from 706 to 2,612 in 2015. As far as contributions for families are concerned, if all the parks are operational, starting from more or less 2020 or 2021 – this is our goal and the one on which we set ourselves in the negotiation on burden sharing – the support will amount to 850 million euros per year for a production of about 83 600 GWh. For information, the EUR 107/90 per MWh system remains applicable for C-Power, Belwind, Northwind and Nobelwind. The change in support for the new offshore parks, namely Rentel, Seastar, Norther, Mermaid and Northwester, will bring down the price by 50 million per year compared to the previous reform (2014). Without the current reform, the 2014 reform would have led to a price of 900 million euros per year. I have a comparison chart, which I'm going to pass on to you, because I don't see myself describing it to you. This is a small table showing the support price, a comparison between the 2016 reform and the 2014 reform for C-Power, Belwind, Northwind, Nobelwind and Rentel, Seastar, Norther, Mermaid and Northwester, as well as the total support price per year, the evaluation of the offshore in euros per MWh, and the average amount per family. You have the answer in this table. As far as the van zaken stand is concerned, it is planned, and I would like to do so, that I will introduce a bill in the Council of Ministers on 13 May. Normally, the case will be presented to the House afterwards. As you know, this bill has already been considered by the Council of State, as it was part of the various provisions law that came into Parliament before the end of 2015. The Conference of Presidents had rightly decided that this probably deserved a proper debate in Parliament, which was why it was presented later. As regards notification, as a Member State, Belgium is in the pre-notification phase concerning the offshore case, i.e. the regulatory or institutional phase prior to the actual notification. A pre-notification dossier was introduced in early March in collaboration with CREG and offshore parks. The Commission did not make any comments, but asked questions on 8 April 2016. These are the following six summarized questions. The Commission requests confirmation that the electricity is sold on the market, plus an example of the calculation of the remuneration of the LCOE. She asked what mechanism and thresholds were in place in the event of negative market prices. It asks for an explanation of the concession system set up for the offshore in Belgium. She asked for an explanation of the support system for the North Sea electric cable. And she asks for an explanation of the financial return, the return on equity of the parks. In collaboration with CREG and the parks, we sent answers to the Commission on these six questions on April 20, 2016. Mrs Dierick, concerning the taking at sea, the Modular Offshore Grid, Elia has transmitted a legal and technical input to the administration and the firm in this respect, legal in the form of an adaptation to the law Electricity and technical because it is a comparison between the individual connection, which is called the scenario "Spaghetti" where each park connects to the land, and the Modular Offshore Grid where all the parks connect to a take at sea which, it, connects to the land. Further explanations were requested from both Elia and CREG regarding the potential plan B scenario, if the planning is not achieved by Elia, who in the case of the Modular Offshore Grid will invest and create this take at sea, on possible compensation for the parks and on the price impact (families, SMEs, sectors and electro-intensive sectors). A proposal will soon be discussed within the government and in a political working group.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u56	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for your comprehensive reply with a lot of figures that I would like, as you promised, because that would be more convenient. I note that steps have already been taken to review the support mechanism. As you yourself said, there will certainly be another debate on this matter. I also note that a draft law will be submitted shortly. So I can only be satisfied with the steps already taken and with the debate that we will continue as soon as we have all the information we need.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u57	Mr President, the answers that have been given leave me very dubious. Having said that, I will take the time to take a step backwards and analyze the elements in depth. In addition, I look forward to hearing the Minister's answer to questions Nos. 11009, 11186, 11008 and 11185 in item 57 of our agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that our work will have to be closed at 6 p.m. But by then, we will have had time to move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u59	Mr President, Madam Minister, I have taken note of the dates you gave in response to our colleague's question. That said, you stated that the responses were sent to the Commission on April 20, while announcing that you will submit the file to the government on May 13. Do I have to conclude that you will not wait until the full notification procedure of the European Commission before presenting your text to the government and then to the parliament? Some recent readings have taught me that caution should be exercised with regard to notification procedures. Your answer to the agenda, therefore, has somewhat blocked me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u60	Mr President, I understand what has just been said, but I would like to say that the Commission wishes to have as much as possible of a'specified' dossier with the overall position developed by Belgium. That is why we will proceed very quickly with the notification procedure, once the government has positioned itself at the end of the Council of Ministers on 13 May.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u61	So before the text was tabled in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u62	Well, logically, yes. For my part, however, I believe that, as we are entering the preliminary phase, the government must have expressed its position as early as 13 May so that the Commission can have all the elements available.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u63	I have taken note of the date of May 13. On the other hand, I understand that Parliament would still have some time before receiving the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u64	Mr President, I tabled my questions a long time ago. Would I dare say that their title remains perfectly current?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u65	It's perfect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u66	I will take this opportunity, Minister, to ask you how you envisage the continuation of Doel 1 and Doel 2. The Council of State has just delivered its opinion on the parliamentary amendments. I can't imagine your collaborators didn't warn you. Moreover, the press echoed this morning by scoring two or three points. Firstly, the Council of State considers that Doel's extension cannot be effective until the European Commission has given its green light. What is the impact on the timing of the extension? Secondly, the same authority considers that a mechanism should be set up to adapt the fee to the reality of investments. In other words, the famous EUR 700 million must be validated by one instance or another. Thirdly, the Council of State recommends adding a provision stating that investments necessary to deal with seismic risks cannot be considered as justifying a change in the fee. Based on the opinion of the Council of State and the new elements that are highlighted on seismic risks, I would like to know how we will work on this Doel 1 and 2 extension dossier. What is your analysis of the impact of these new considerations on the agenda of work in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u67	Mr Nollet, you have just updated your questions, which are therefore somewhat different from the original texts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u68	Mr Nollet, I have read your questions on 5 November and 23 November 2015. Today, you have not joined your previous questions and this is a completely different subject. So I can't answer it! In order to be able to discuss the matter, the Rules of the Chamber provide that the questions will be tabled no later than 11 a.m. the day before. You are submitting an opinion from the Council of State, which my colleagues have sent to me. I received it today at 9:37 a.m. I will have the opportunity to go through it entirely and comment on it in subsequent committees. In this case, you are asking foreign questions about the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u69	Excuse me! I asked them in November to find out what you were going to do at the time. Since then, we know that because we have already met in committee!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u70	That's right! And I was going to refer you, indeed, to pages 46 and 47 of the first reading report of the Royalty Act and to pages 59, 62 and 63 of this report. You will have every opportunity to introduce the new questions you are asking at a later stage, in accordance with the Rules of the House. I would like to answer your questions on November 5 and 23, but I cannot rule on your questions today, especially since I have to do some tests. Your communication of the opinion of the Council of State was read with extraordinary speed. So let me dwell on it a little more and have the opportunity to respond to you at a later committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u71	Minister, excuse me for quickly reading the opinions of the Council of State. These are extremely important and expected elements on both sides. It takes no more than ten minutes to realize that there is a problem. The opinion is clear: the extension cannot be effective until the European Commission has given its green light. The title of my question, from November to the date you gave, concerns the timetable for the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. I remain clearly in the title of my question when I ask what lessons we should learn and what impact this opinion will have on the timetable for extension. Excuse me, but we've been through a lot. Not having a view when you have had the text of the Council of State since 09:37, as you said yourself, and it is 15:26, on the impact of this opinion on the timetable, that seems enormous to me! That legal analysis still needs to be done on this or that point, I can hear it. The Council of State considers that "the extension cannot be effective"; do you maintain your position or take the time to wait for the opinion of the European Commission? Are you talking about it within the government or are you continuing to go head down? We have the right at least to know that. For the rest of my questions, excuse me, but we already have the answers. Indeed, between the moment when they are dropped off and the moment when they are allowed to pose them to you, it takes five months!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u72	I have explained to you what has been done in this committee for five months. You will be able to consult this schedule until more thirsty. You continue to claim that the extension is not completed while it is, since it was voted on June 28, 2015. You are referring only to the text "redevance", on which we have spent at least four full committee meetings, and which is only the financial consequence of an extension already completed since it was voted by this Parliament on 28 June 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u73	So, what's the difference? The Council of State stands in relation to the extension of Doel 1 and 2, saying that the extension cannot be effective until the Commission has given its green light.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u74	The extension is effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u75	She can't be. You're illegal!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u76	With you, I am systematically illegal. I can't hear anything else in your mouth.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u77	It is not "with me", but in this case "with the Council of State".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u78	I will read carefully the opinion of the Council of State. You'll allow me to have my own reading. We will discuss it at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u79	I propose that Mr. Nollet make a final reply, and then we will consider the incident closed. We have heard the exchange; we cannot go further in the context of an oral question, even if it was tabled a long time ago and topical elements are now on the table. Mr. Nollet, one last word?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u80	Of course, Mr. President. I regret that the minister is either unable or unwilling to give us an indication of the direction that will be taken in response to this advice from the Council of State. I understand that, on some points, it still needs to be analysed in depth and I respect that. But as for the impact this will have on the timetable, when there is a request for a green light, frankly, Mr President, I regret to say that Parliament is not being respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u81	Mr President, the questions were put a long time ago. A number of things are certainly already out of date, but I suppose the Minister can reflect the current state of affairs. I will put both questions together in one question. All Member States of the European Union are obliged to retain one quarter of annual net imports of petroleum products as strategic stocks. This obligation ensures security of oil supply in the EU. Strategic oil stocks can be used to cope with sudden market shortages. In this country the strategic oil stock is managed by APETRA, a nv of public law for social purposes. In 2015, our country recorded a temporary increase in NAFTA's share of domestic production above the threshold of 7%. As a result, the strategic oil stock held was allowed to decrease. The government decided to sell a portion at a historically low oil price. According to sp.a., that wasn't really wise. The NAFTA share is unlikely to remain continuously above the 7% threshold so that the allowed fall in strategic oil stocks is temporary. This will mean that the government will have to buy oil again in the future. This transaction will undoubtedly be negative for the budget, while the initial sale was motivated by budgetary reasons. In 2015, the government registered a one-off return of 210 million euros. However, in 2016 no amount is foreseen in the budget for additional purchases. What is the NAFTA share currently? Does the government envisage having to purchase oil again in 2016 in order to maintain the strategic oil stock and, if so, how much? Why is the budget not foreseen for the purchase of strategic oil reserves? How will the government finance any purchase?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u82	Mr President, my question is on another subject. The methodology for joining questions or not is not always very clear to me. My question is more about the origin of the oil present here in Belgium, in view of the oil audit we were asking for, in order to determine whether certain sources of oil could be located in the territories occupied by Daesh. I'll read you my questions, trying to synthesize them. Madam Secretary, in my previous question, in November, I was talking about oil money as a lifeline for ISIS. IS would leave USD 360 000 to USD 2 000 000 daily for oil sales. With that money, ISIS can buy weapons, finance training camps and pay high salaries. Some of Al Nusra's fighters already moved to IS in the summer of 2014, just because of the higher salaries. It is worrying that some European countries are buying oil indirectly from IS, as Jana Hybásková, European Union ambassador in Iraq, has already stated. According to the Financial Times, half of all the oil ISIS produces in Syria goes to Iraq, where the oil is sold on the local market and the world market. The IS oil is therefore smuggled to Europe via Iraq and the Turkish border. As I said, it is just from Iraq that Belgian oil imports, according to figures from the European Commission, increased by 22% in one year. In 2013 and 2014, imports from Iraq increased by 22%. My question concerns the purchase of APETRA, but, of course, there are still the purchases of private companies and the associated political responsibility. Madam Minister, first of all, can you guarantee that oil imported by private companies does not come from IS controlled areas? Secondly, how is the origin of oil imports in Belgium controlled? Does this system guarantee the exact origin of the oil? Thirdly, was the alarming message from the ambassador discussed and addressed by the federal government? Has this been discussed and addressed at European level? Did Belgium take any initiative in this respect? So far for the private import. Then there is my question about APETRA itself. For the management of public reserves, the Act of 26 January 2006 established a public limited liability company under public law, APETRA or Agence du pétrole. This security of supply is one of the three pillars of European energy policy. These three pillars are according to the FPS website: firstly, reliability in terms of security of supply and continuity, secondly, sustainability in terms of environmental friendliness and, thirdly, competitiveness in terms of efficient services for families and businesses by contributing to the overall competitiveness of the European economy. The question is where the oil came from. This brings me back to the various facts surrounding ISIS and the areas they control. According to figures from the European Commission, imports of Iraqi oil increased by 22%. In this question, I would even add that the value of imports from Iraq would be worth USD 220 million. Madam Minister, can you guarantee that there is no oil in the stocks of APETRA from the occupied territories? How does the government control APETRA? Does the government have eyes on the countries of origin, supplier, time, quantity and price? Can the government intervene on those parameters?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u83	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, I can indeed confirm that Belgium's annual stock requirement for the retention of strategic oil stocks depends on the average annual share of NAFTA in domestic production. This is a strange arrangement, which we have been faced with since the entry into force of the current European stock directives in this area. Although this rule has led to lower stock requirements for Belgium in recent years, in the light of the review of the Directive, Belgium has raised the European rule, since it can ensure a highly variable stock requirement from year to year, until it is unmanageable both operationally and financially in the event of a sudden increase. As you may know, the accounts of APETRA, the Belgian stock company, which manages the strategic oil stock, are consolidated with those of the federal government. In the meantime, many large and small EU Member States have already taken on this issue with great interest, and there seems to be a great will to change the regime in question, but this possible change is not, of course, for tomorrow. This year, however, APETRA has a surplus of stocks compared to the current storage requirement. Following last year's budgetary control, the government decided to ask APETRA to sell some of its surplus stocks. Such a sale has a budgetary impact for the reason related to the consolidation mentioned above. At that time, it was not yet expected that Belgium would again face a much higher storage obligation next year (i.e. this year) due to the NAFTA rule. This month, I became aware of the average share of NAFTA in domestic production for the first nine months of 2015. This average is 6.20% and the likelihood that it will still exceed 7% for the entire 2016 fiscal year is estimated by the administration to be extremely low. It must now be taken into account that, from 1 April 2016, Belgium will have to hold significantly higher strategic stock quantities. That is why I decided to take two steps. On the one hand, I have pointed out to my colleague the Minister responsible for the Budget that APETRA is no longer required to carry out the planned sale with the exception of the 30 000 tonnes of the 150 000 tonnes planned which have already been sold. On the other hand, in the recent budgetary control 2016 the government agreed to give APETRA a subsidy of 35 000 kg/euro for the purchase of an additional stock of two days. By this means, we give the signal that Belgium wishes to comply with its obligations. Mr President, I propose that Mrs Temmerman make her reply now, because I have another answer for Mr Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u84	Madam Secretary, thank you for your explanation. If I understood you correctly, part of the stock was sold in 2015, while part had to be bought back at a higher price in 2016. We had warned at the time, because we did not think it wise to sell part of the stock. I look forward with interest to the forthcoming budgetary control and the way in which the purchases will be financed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u85	It should be noted that it is the firm that joins the questions or not. We can dissociate the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u86	Mr Hedebouw, I answer your two questions, 7663 and 7664. The last paragraph of my answer concerns Question No 7664. I have the honour to inform you of the following. First of all, I need to confirm the statistical information for 2013 and 2014 that you provided in your question. However, I must note that the previous year Iraq's crude oil imports fell from about 914,000 tonnes in 2012 to 302,000 tonnes in 2013, a decrease of 75%. Secondly, we again saw a 22 per cent increase, but the volume of 2014 (371,000 tonnes) represented only 30 per cent of the maximum imports from Iraq, which dates back to 2012. The question is: how can we be sure of the origin of imported crude oil and that it does not come from the oil fields controlled by the Islamic State? On the basis of the information that I and my administration have, I can assure you with great conviction that this is not the case. This is not from the Islamic State. And I'll explain it to you. With regard to the oil produced by the Islamic State, we can say that it falls, of course, first of all under European Regulation 36/2012 of the European Council of 18 January 2012 concerning restrictive measures in view of the situation in Syria, and which repeals a previous Regulation 442/2011. Article 6 of the 2012 Regulation states in particular: "It shall be prohibited: (a) to import crude oil or petroleum products into the Union if they: (i) originate in Syria; or (ii) have been exported from Syria; (b) to purchase crude oil or petroleum products if they are located in Syria or originating in Syria; (c) to transport crude oil or petroleum products if they originate in Syria or are exported from Syria to any other country." The territory of the Islamic State extends over a significant part of the territories of Syria and Iraq. The Islamic State produces its oil both in the territory of Syria and in the territory of Iraq. However, the oil it produces in Iraq can only be exported to Turkey through the areas it controls in Syria. Indeed, the common border between Turkey and the Islamic State is in Syria and not Iraq. The territory of the Islamic State in Iraq has no external borders, except with Syria. Furthermore, we are mindful of the fact that, in practice, United Nations resolutions are scrupulously respected. Without claiming to be exhaustive, we are thinking in particular of resolutions 2161, 2170 and 2199 on threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts. As a reminder, UN Security Council Resolution 2199, adopted on 12 February 2015, strongly condemns any participation in direct or indirect trade in petroleum or petroleum products, modular refining units, related equipment and any other person, group, undertaking and entity designated as associated with Al-Qaeda by the Committee, pursuant to UNSC Resolutions 1267 of 1999 and 1989 of 2011. You see that this issue has been taken into account by international bodies for a long time and is therefore a matter for us. Following these resolutions and European regulations, Belgium has for some time joined a group of countries actively involved in the fight against the financing of the Islamic State. This is indeed one of the cornerstones of our foreign policy. To this end, a working group has been established within the FPS Foreign Affairs to deal specifically with this issue. My administration is also involved with regard to, among other things, the aspect of the oil of the Islamic State. On the basis of the information available to us, we try to analyse the situation with a view to identifying and, if necessary, stopping any form of financing of the Islamic State. In addition, I can also tell you that, since the establishment of the Islamic State, we have had bilateral contacts with the oil companies that operate refineries in the port of Antwerp and are responsible for imports from Iraq. These contacts have not brought up to date any indications that we may doubt that there is a risk that crude oil from the Islamic State has been processed in Belgian refineries. The information obtained from the undertakings concerned did not change this finding. Moreover, I would like to point out that, often, the policy of buying crude oil is not organised from Belgium, but through the department within the holding company. Finally, I can also reassure you about the crude oil of the Belgian agency APETRA bought to date. These purchases not only date from the period before the advent of the Islamic State and the proclamation of the Caliphate, but also APETRA manages only Forties-type crude oil in the North Sea. In the future, it will include in its procurement contracts a clause that requires suppliers to undertake not to offer molecules from embargoed countries or subject to sanctions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u87	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I remain somewhat on my hunger in the sense that you remind me of all the international and Belgian texts stating that we are not supposed to trade with the Islamic State. I doubted it and it reassures me. The question was what are the concrete elements at our disposal in order to be sure that there is no sale of oil from these regions via Iraq or Turkey. I can hear you when you tell me that the oil companies on the square in Belgium have given you some elements. Would it be possible to share these elements with the members of the committee? It is these companies that have the information on the ground, it is the companies that do the business on the ground themselves. Also, if you could pass on to the entire committee these elements that you discussed with these multinationals in the Antwerp port, it would be interesting in order to calm the population and to know that at the pump we do not use oil from the Syrian and Iraqi areas occupied by Daesh.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u88	Mr President, Madam Minister, in a written question, I asked you whether, since the coming into force of the 2003 Act, the Nuclear Supplies Commission or its President had made, formally or informally, any proposals to revise the discount rate used in nuclear supplies. I also asked whether the Commission on Nuclear Supplies or its Chairman had made, formally or informally, any reflections on the discount rate used to determine the necessary nuclear provisions. Your answer just informed me that the Commission has lowered the discount rate from 5% to 4.8% and that this rate will be re-evaluated in the context of the three-year review of the provisions in 2016, which we knew. My question was broader and I therefore reformulate it to you: since the 2003 Act came into force, beyond the 5% to 4.8% revision, have the Nuclear Supplies Commission or its Chairman formally or informally made any proposals to revise the discount rate used for nuclear supplies? Have they formally or informally made any thought about discount rate(s) used to determine the necessary nuclear supplies? If so, when? What was the suggested rate? What follow-up has been made to these possible proposals?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u89	Mr President, I have indeed been, at least five times, if I can see it correctly, questioned in writing by Mr Nollet on this subject and once here in committee. The Commission on Nuclear Supplies evaluated the methodology for calculating nuclear supplies in 2005, 2007, 2010 and 2013. The discount rate is part of this whole methodology. Article 11 of the Act of 11 April 2003 provides for guarantees to ensure that operators have sufficient provisions at all times. The contractual framework guaranteeing the return equal to the discount rate in all circumstances is approved by the Nuclear Provisions Commission. At each revision, the discount rate is a topic for discussion between the members of the Commission who assess the reference financial situation, the long-term rate, the economic and financial situation, the legal framework and the contractual framework, all elements of the discussion which lead to the approval or not of the proposal made by the operators. It is the work that is probably at work for now since we are in 2016 and this revision comes every 3 years, as I have just said. The committee's deliberations, as I recall, are confidential under Article 8(2) of the Act of 11 April 2004. Since the first evaluation in 2005, the Commission has always reserved the right to review the discount rate. The answer has been given, as we all know. Were there problems in financial markets or in the constitution of provisions? The Commission has repeatedly found that long-term and very long-term risk-free interest has become very low and has demanded that contractual conditions remain unchanged, ensuring a constant rate, even in future lending contracts. That is all I can tell you about the prescriptions of the Act of 11 April 2004 and its Article 8, § 2. He said that the deliberations of the Commission were confidential. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u90	Mr President, I cannot be satisfied with the answer. Confidentiality does not prevent Parliament from knowing whether or not there have been proposals other than the 5% to 4.8% increase. Confidentiality affects public servants, but it does not affect the Minister's response to Parliament. I think that we have a right to know what is happening, and that we must not fall behind this legal argument. I will therefore continue to dig in this direction, because even a rate of 4.8% is really problematic in relation to what markets are giving us today. We know that behind this is a huge stake for Electrabel and its cash flow. I cannot be satisfied with the fact that we do not have access to information. I regret that the minister is relying on this facility when Parliament is entitled to receive this type of information, which is more so when it comes to the past; I am not thinking of an idea for the next discount rate. I want to know if any other proposals have been made before.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Nollet. We take note of your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u92	I don't rely on ease; I respect the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u93	That is not what the law says about Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u94	I take note of each other's lines. Parliament has the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u95	Mrs. Dierick's gone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u96	Minister, L'Echo on December 31st presents your plan to subsidize gas-fired power plants. I would like to ask you both about the reasons for taking such an initiative and about the modalities envisaged. In the article, you seem to justify this project by the need to guarantee security of supply at the time when Belgium will leave nuclear power, i.e. between 2022 and 2025 according to the new timetable. I wonder whether it is appropriate to structurally subsidise the maintenance of otherwise old facilities now, when the need in your nuclear calendar will only be felt in about ten years' time. This is what Elia's recent study has said since then: there is no need for new power plants until 2023, 2025 or 2027. Can you also tell us more about the terms and conditions and your work schedule? Do you want to end the strategic reserve? Why? From when? Under what mechanism will gas-fired power stations be financed? What volume are you aiming for, knowing that about 6,000 megawatts of nuclear power will have to be replaced? What will be the cost compared to the current strategic reserve of $58 million?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u97	Minister, as I have told you on several occasions, the extension of Doel 1 and 2 has buried the energy transition and the viability of gas-fired power plants. After condemning the call for tenders for new gas capabilities launched by your predecessor even before the European Commissioners reach a decision on this subject and without defending this call for tenders, after having rendered unnecessary the strategic reserve, which is composed in particular of gas-fired power plants following the extension of Doel 1 and 2, after having achieved your objective of promoting nuclear energy at all costs, you finally seem to realize that your policy is a disaster for other sources of electricity generation and, in particular, gas, which is a flexible source of production, unlike nuclear power, and which would allow the transition to electricity generation based on renewable energy. According to L'Echo, it seems that in order to avoid the closure of efficient power plants, you would be working on a capacity compensation system for gas-fired power plants. The newspaper mentions that "this mechanism would allow several power plants to remain on the market until nuclear power is phased out, when gas-fired power plants should be forced to turn more and, no doubt, fly with their own wings". One more proof, if necessary, that Doel 1 and 2's extension buried the gas-fired power plants. Minister, could you confirm to me that you are working on a capacity compensation mechanism for gas-fired power plants? Will this CRM be reserved for gas or open to all forms of electricity generation and flexibility? What will this capacity compensation mechanism consist of? What will be the specifications of this invitation to tender? Which gas-fired power plants would you target through this capacity compensation mechanism? How much will this capacity mechanism cost to businesses and the Belgian citizen?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u98	Mr President, I do not see why my question on the study of Elias for the period 2017-2027 has been joined.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u99	We can dissociate, but that's because part of the answer lies in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u100	Minister, at your request, the TSO conducted a study on security of electricity supply. This study covers the period 2017-2027. On 20 April, Elia published its findings. According to the TSO, electricity requirements are covered for several years and it is only from 2023, with the closure of nuclear reactors, that the need for flexible capacity increases significantly. Minister, what analysis do you make of Elia's study? What concrete measures will you take on the basis of the recommendations made by the TSO? What consultations will be held so that stakeholders in the sector can give their opinion on this report? You have indicated that you have requested a study similar to Fluxys and the Belgian Petroleum Federation. How long are these studies expected to take? Is the Federal Energy Administration, which is responsible for the security of supply of Belgium, also required to carry out a similar study?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u101	Mr President, Minister, in April 2016, the high voltage system operator Elia published a particularly relevant study on security of supply and flexibility in the Belgian electricity system for the period 2017-2027. The study shows in black and white that we actually have enough energy until about 2023-2025, but also that the current investment climate in the energy market does not provide sufficient guarantees for alternative production capacity. This, of course, has everything to do with the fact that this government, with the extension of the lifetime of Objective 1 and Objective 2 and the re-launch of the Objective 3 and Tihange 2 cracks plant, continues to make full use of the energy of the past that is destroying the current alternative energy market. However, it is necessary for the government to create an environment that makes investing in alternatives attractive. It is those alternatives that must guarantee our security of supply for the future until the core exit in 2025. This is far too late for us, but we hope that this deadline will be implemented. However, we fear that the target date of 2025 will be left because alternatives are not being chosen at the moment. In other words, the study shows that the government's energy policy options are a complete lack of vision, as it is not able to guarantee security of supply or the development of new sustainable production capacity. Hence the following questions. What measures will you take to improve the investment climate in the energy market and stimulate the development of alternative production technologies between now and 2023? We also need this in order to achieve our environmental objectives. For the time being, you are also responsible for that as a minister. What capacity of alternative production technology will you actually achieve between today and 2023?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u102	Mr President, with regard to the observations made in the questions raised, I have already had the opportunity to give you an ample reply at the committee meeting on 25 February 2016 on the subject of gas power plants in Europe and their degree of profitability, stating that this had nothing to do with nuclear power and its continuation in our country. I read a few sentences on page 73 of the report. "All gas-fired power plants in Europe are in a difficult situation, both in countries with nuclear power plants and in countries without them." This shows that it has nothing to do with it. In this regard, I refer to the latest study published by CREG on 14 January 2016 citing a passage from the findings of this study. I quote: "What is striking is the margin of gas-fired power plants which, despite the return of nuclear power plants, is much better compared to 2013 and 2014". So these two elements clearly show that this has nothing to do with the return of "nuclear" to the circuit. The CREG explains this much better situation in the head of gas power plants compared to 2013 and 2014. This is due to the sharp fall in gas prices. Gas consumption in Belgium was 176 Tw-h in 2015, an increase of 9.7% over 2014. In addition, low electricity prices in the wholesale market and slightly higher gas prices have also contributed to low profit margins for gas-fired power plants. Contrary to what is being said, particularly in your remarks, I do not think gas-fired power stations are being condemned. I believe there is a need for a study of the capacity problems of gas-fired power plants. That is why I made a request to Elias in December to analyse our needs for flexibility with regard to gas-fired power plants. That is why I have asked that the questions of Mrs Lalieux and Mrs Temmerman be joined. We know that modularity is the main asset for dealing with problems related to temporary capacity issues. Before dealing with this study on the strategic reserve, I must tell you that this reserve is a tool that needs to be kept. I had quoted the price, for the consumer, of the strategic reserve, in reservation only. We know we're not going to use it even though it's contracted for three years. The average cost per household per year ranges from 1.3 to 2.8 euros. I had sent you a table on pages 68 and 69 of the report. As regards the need for flexibility and the reflection on a system of support for existing capacities, it must be borne in mind that the reflection on this system of support, which I have been thinking about for some time, is still ongoing. In this context, I asked Elia in collaboration with DG Energy to draw up a report on the profile of the need for the means of production and flexibility that our fleet should have for the ten-year period between 2017 and 2027. This comparison was made year by year for the entire period. The study was presented to me and I then launched a broad consultation so that everyone could make comments, comments and proposals on the study that were considered relevant. I've already received a few. A presentation of the work of the TSO was organised on 20 April, in which dozens of companies or various stakeholders, including trade union organisations, participated. The Energy DG, by letter of 25 April, sought the views of the participants by submitting a series of questions relating to the study. Responses are expected to reach the administration by May 22. In addition to these consultations, others have been planned and are in progress. Detailed analyses of the study were requested from the National Bank, the Planning Office and the Central Economic Council. The study was also analysed by two academic experts working with DG Energy: Professor Estelle Cantillon of ULB and Professor Johan Albrecht of the University of Ghent. They will make all the comments and observations they consider useful about this study. This analysis takes into account not only the expected developments in the production stock, depending on the legal nuclear release schedule and the projections of renewable capacity development, but also various variables, such as the closure of units and, consequently, the foreseeable composition of the stock, demand management, storage, energy efficiency, import possibilities. The whole approach also takes into account the expressed desire to maintain a certain degree of energy independence and the valuable know-how that we have in our country, which is very favourable to maintaining and creating jobs. Moreover, the European Commission launched a wide-ranging consultation in mid-2015 to establish guidelines on capacity mechanisms and how they can operate across borders. This consultation also raises the issue of security of supply and intends to organise it better at European level. The European Commission intends to propose a number of first texts in this area in the second half of 2016. The first results are already known and will form part of the framework in which we work. The study and the explanatory memorandum should form the basis for a proposal to design a possible market mechanism to ensure the availability of a structural block during the said period. Finally, even if no measure is taken with the main public and private actors in the sector regarding the support you are referring to, we are thinking about it. If the studies under way confirm their relevance, support will in any case be calibrated very accurately to comply with European directives and thus be limited to what is strictly necessary and even automatically reduced as the operating conditions reach the required level. This will not apply to the gas units, but to the different means corresponding to the technical details to be technically neutral. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u103	Mr. Chairman, I hear the Minister's answers very well. That said, this mechanism has been a matter of capacity pay since the government agreement. In my view, things are not clear. That is, in particular, the reason why questions are put on this subject. Madam Minister, you mentioned the problems of gas and electricity profitability. You recalled that the gas molecule or the electricity molecule is becoming less and less expensive, which obviously has an impact on the overall profitability of the system. Could you give me any information on the beacons that have been defined at European level? What are they? On the other hand, you have not answered my question about the regulatory framework you are going to put in place for gas-fired power plants. I would also like to return, for a moment, to the energy pact discussed last week. You said that the stakeholders, the partners should submit their response by 15 May, a date that was postponed to a slightly later date. Will the stakeholders also be affected by the guideline with regard to this regulatory mechanism? Finally, will CRM be reserved for gas or open to all forms of electricity generation and flexibility? If you could give me some answers to the questions you haven't answered, I'd be glad.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course all the stakeholders are concerned. I told you that the report and the questions had already been sent to 72 speakers via DG Energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u105	You even mentioned 73 speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u106	I did mention an additional speaker. You have listened to me, which I congratulate you on. This number could increase to 74 or 75. We have already received some answers. I have no doubt that we will receive more, on the 22 understanding that on a Sunday, it is not because answers would come to us on the 23rd or 24th that this would, ipso facto, lead to their nullity. Indeed, our objective is to obtain as much opinion as possible from all possible actors. You can be reassured, so this is a broad consultation. And if you know one or the other actor who wouldn't have been contacted, don't hesitate to let me know. With regard to the mechanisms that already exist in some countries, you know that Italy has recently adopted a mechanism. You know that there is one in England and that there is one in France. We look at all this very carefully to reflect. The goal is not to focus on energy, but to have a broader look.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u107	Mr. de Lamotte, may I consider your reply to be over?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u108	Provisionally, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u109	The minister also did not tell me whether a similar study had been requested from Fluxys and whether the Energy Administration, which is responsible for security of supply, would also do its own study and not only compile the studies of others. I didn't get an answer. I will, of course, wait for all the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u110	Madam Minister, there are clearly still many open questions. We will await your further communication. Perhaps this committee will devote a number of meetings to this matter. You now have a clear picture of our energy supply until 2025-2027. One must not have studied higher mathematics to understand that vision of the future, and I am surprised that you, as a liberal, do not really understand the market mechanism. If it is said that there will have to be alternatives by then, on the one hand, but it is now prevented from allowing alternatives to the market, on the other hand, we have a problem. One should not wait for any stakeholder to do so. This is just 1+1=2. This is how the market works. And I believe that you, as a liberal, understand very well how the market works. By keeping the nuclear power plants open today, you hypothesize the energy supply of the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u111	Mr President, this is a timely matter. Madam Minister, you told us quite recently in committee that you had answered the 18 questions of the European Commission, and we had many criticisms of those answers. You insisted on the reasons why the government considers that the measure provided for in the bill does not constitute State aid incompatible with Article 107 of the Treaty on European Union. You insisted that at this stage there is no question of a Belgian notification and pre-notification procedure. This morning, in our mailbox, an opinion of the Council of State states that its observation on this subject is "all the more ominous as the European Commission has itself opened an investigation into the proposed measure." He stressed that this law could not be implemented until the final decision had been reached, and stressed the exclusive competence of the European Commission. This law cannot therefore be implemented until the European Commission has completed its review. Minister, has a formal inquiry been opened by the European Commission, as mentioned by the Council of State? Have you notified the European Commission of the agreement between the Belgian State and Electrabel on the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2? If so, when did this notification take place? What was the Commission's response to your answers to the 18 questions? With regard to the specific point concerning seismic standards at Doel 1 and Doel 2, have you had any additional information? I would also have liked to have an answer to my question about the Convention, and in particular Article 8 of the Convention, which refers to a judgment at the initiative of Electrabel, but if the operator, as AFCN, forced him to stop, there is no longer any problem of compensation either in the Head of Electrabel or in the Head of State. This is involved in the notification procedure. The length of the transitional period is therefore important. If it runs until 2025, it solves the problem for the government and Electrabel. Why have the new anti-seismic standards not been directly integrated into the Doel 1 and Doel 2 LTO? This concerns the extension of these two plants. Why is the budget needed to carry out this work not included in the overall budget for the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2? All of this is linked to the Doel 1 and Doel 2 state aid notification procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u112	Mr de Lamotte, I see a hesitation on the bench of the government. This is your question tabled on January 5, but which you have updated? That seems to disturb the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u113	Mr President, I have done so in accordance with Rule 127-8 of our Rules of Procedure, which states that a member may ask additional and topical questions. It is nothing more than the application of the Rules of Procedure of our House.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u114	I'm glad to hear you say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u115	Mr President, I, too, but – as a measure of fairness – my answer will be the same as that I sent to Mr Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u116	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u117	That's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u118	Colleagues, I suggest that you leave it to the minister to answer Mr de Lamotte's questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u119	Mr de Lamotte, we will have the opportunity to discuss at a later stage, in depth and with great pleasure, the opinion of the Council of State on the amendments that you have forwarded to it through the Legislative Secretariat of the House. I received the opinion this morning at 9.37 a.m. I wish I could read it a lot. On January 5, and I do not blame you, Mr. de Lamotte, you asked me whether the notification had taken place; if so, at what time; otherwise, when I intended to send it and, if I did not make this decision, for what reason. Similarly, you asked me what my answers were to the comments made by the Council of State. I have, of course, answered your question extensively, as can be seen from pages 4, 5 and 89 of the first reading report of the review of the Royalty Act, in committee meetings on 12 January, 26 January and 26 February. So we have already discussed it. I repeat that I would like to hear this opinion and to be able to respond usefully to your new questions. Therefore, you will be in the same situation as Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u120	Mr President, I am really not satisfied with the minister's answer. Minister, your response is already updating some data. You therefore fall within the scope of the Rules of Procedure as defined. Has a formal investigation been initiated by the European Commission? Have we gone beyond the stage of informal meetings? Did you get answers to the questions you sent him? Our citizens have the right to transparency. We have to move on. I would remind you, Madam Minister, that the title of my question was as follows: "the procedure for notifying the European Commission of the agreement between the Belgian State and Electrabel on the extension of Doel 1 and 2". So I didn't get out of the nails of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u121	I'll answer your last two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u122	Minister, there are indeed questions and I would like to have full transparency on this matter, in accordance with the rule of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u123	Exactly, as we've been doing since the beginning, Mr. de Lamotte. My answer was in three lines. I'll read it to you. You will be quite at the point, in this way, in relation to whether I am already dealing with answers to your new questions or not. This issue was widely debated in committee during the discussions on the bill amending the Act of 31 January 2003 on the progressive phase-out of nuclear power for industrial electricity production. I therefore refer you to the report of the first reading of this project – I quoted the pages. As far as your two questions are concerned, there is no investigation opened by the Commission, since you know that we are still in an informal phase of discussions with it. I returned the answers to the eighteen questions in due time. I still do not have a return from the Commission. When I get one, I'll report back to you, just like I've been doing since the beginning.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u124	Madam Minister, I would like to know whether you have now formally pre-notified and notified, since you have referred to this. Otherwise, what is the procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u125	As I recall, we are still in a phase that does not concern pre-notification, since it is informal exchanges.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u126	Madam Minister, excuse me, I therefore invite you to read in depth, before forcing decisions and continuing the legislative process on this subject, the opinion of the Council of State which arrived in our mailboxes this morning. This opinion is far from trivial.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u127	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calvo 8423 lapses in the absence of the questioner.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u128	Mr President, Madam Minister, this morning the Council of State delivered its opinion... I'm kidding! I have been asking this question for four months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u129	Mr. Hedebouw, you're not nice to your colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u130	Minister, I see that you are always having fun returning unsatisfactory answers. I didn't know that when I was going to ask the minister, I would be in full interest on the "Turteltaks" which now visibly becomes the "Tommeltaks". I'm quite happy with the news of my question. Madam Secretary, I have a question about the conflict of jurisdiction around the Turtel tax. We go to the Constitutional Court to see if this tax is constitutional. Minister, I'm asking you the question today. Do you agree with us? One in five Flemish families, 21 % to be precise, according to a research conducted by the Research Centre Inequality, Poverty, Social Exclusion and the City of the University of Antwerp, struggles to pay the energy bills. In De Tijd, FEBEG, the sector organisation of the electricity and gas companies, announced that the five largest suppliers together wrote off 74 million euros of debts from people who could no longer pay their invoices in 2015. At least the same amount is expected for 2015. The PVDA has calculated the power gap for families. An average family pays 940 euros for electricity in Flanders today. That is 23% more than in neighbouring countries. The difference with France even rises to 56%. I would like to talk about the conflict of jurisdiction in the Turtel tax. It was therefore the tax introduced by Mrs Turtelboom that had just been replaced in the Flemish Government. The Turtel tax was approved in the Flemish Parliament at the end of 2015. Back then, Minister Turtelboom ignored a negative opinion from the Council of State. Clearly, the tradition of putting the opinions of the Council of State aside is not just the monopoly of the Ministers of State. I see that there is a "transregional transitivity" about this tendency to throw the Council of State's opinions in the trash. The Council of State expressly states that the Turtel tax is unconstitutional. With the Turtel tax, the Flemish government introduces a tax based on energy consumption, whereas the federal government has already done so before. In doing so, the Flemish Government is guilty of introducing a double taxation, because there is already a federal contribution that is collected on the same basis. The Constitution prohibits taxing the same thing twice. Taxing a second time in the same way is not permitted by the Constitution. That's why the PVDA is going to the Constitutional Court. Minister, I would like to inform you that on 11 May 2016 we will file our application with the Constitutional Court and that 17,000 citizens in Flanders have already joined us. It is not your business directly, but Mr. Tommelein's business that is no longer in the federal government. That's why I have next two questions. Do you confirm that double taxation on the same is unconstitutional? Shouldn't the federal government urgently consult with the Flemish government on this? Recently, you promised my colleague Marco Van Hees in the Committee on Climate Change that you would address Minister Turtelboom in the short term, a number of days. In the meantime, she has been succeeded by Minister Tommelein. In the meantime, have you been in contact with your Flemish counterpart? A number of days have passed in this committee three months ago. What will the federal government do, whether or not in consultation with the sub-schemes, to urgently address the explosive problem of energy poverty without waiting for the Constitutional Court's ruling? Minister, I look forward to your response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u131	Mr President, first of all it must be pointed out that the question raised concerns strictly regional competence. The Regions have the competence to impose regional taxes, charges and surcharges on the distribution of electricity and natural gas. In this case, therefore, there is no obligation to consult at the level of the Concertation Committee. According to information provided in the press, the Legislation section of the Council of State has expressed reservations – I am speaking with caution – that the levy is based on household consumption when there are already levies at the federal level. If a person considers that the tax is unconstitutional or illegal, an appeal may be brought before the courts and tribunals. I can hear you on this point. In answer to the question on measures to be taken without waiting for a ruling of the Constitutional Court in this case, allow me to recall that it is contrary to the principle of proportionality to exercise federal powers to counteract the policy pursued by a federated entity. The Constitutional Court will therefore have to rule on the constitutional validity of the measure and it is not for me, as Federal Minister for Energy, to rule on the legitimacy of a regional tax established in this case by the Flemish Region. With regard to the fight against poverty at the federal level, persons who meet the criteria laid down in the relevant legislation automatically benefit, without having to request it, from the specific social tariff which is the lowest commercial rate in the area concerned, coupled with the lowest distribution rate in the region concerned. Taxes, surcharges and contributions apply to this tariff. It is established and indexed by CREG. After, in the three regions, any surcharges or taxes decided by the regional authorities are added to the final invoice to cover, for example, as is the case with this photovoltaic tax, social and environmental public service obligations. I am thinking, for example, of support for renewable energy, road charges, public lighting, social obligations such as the installation of a power limiter or a budget meter. Social protection measures such as budget meters, protected customers, power limiters, the winter cut-off ban for customers in difficulty of payment are also provided for at regional level and differ from region to region. For the tax in question, the measure varies according to the consumption of electricity. For customers benefiting from a social rate, it would appear that the amount will be limited to 2.08 euros per month, i.e. 25 euros per year. I'm just quoting information that I've collected in the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u132	Minister, as you know, there is a VAT at the federal level. Therefore, the question arises. If the Constitutional Court agrees with these tens of thousands of complainants on the unconstitutionality of this measure in Flanders, it will be necessary to decide: who will be able to maintain its tax? I guess you think it'll be the federal. However, I would have liked to have a clearer communication from the federal minister on a matter that has been going through half of the country for two to three months: a federated entity adds a tax on the same basis as the federal one without any reaction from the federal side. I'm surprised. We will, in my opinion, be quickly fixed – I hope, before the holidays – on the constitutionality or not of this measure by the Flemish Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u133	We will say that the incident is closed even if the file is not closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u134	I do not see Mr Calvo, so his question No. 8958 is hereby repealed. Question No 8985 by Mrs Fonck is transformed into a written question at her request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u135	Mr President, Minister, consumers have been free to choose energy suppliers since 2003. This means that in the meantime the various suppliers offer all kinds of contracts whereby one can opt for a tariff with an energy component fixed for a certain period of time, on the one hand, or for a variable price dependent on the market, on the other. A number of studies show that the rates with the variable component are among the most expensive. Compared to the cheapest tariff for electricity, the difference may reach 20% and even 30% for natural gas. The CREG considers that 60% of households have fallen asleep and have never changed supplier. In particular, these contracts are variable-price contracts and are therefore among the more expensive ones. In order to address this situation, the CREG wants to place a comparative tool on its website that allows consumers, unlike the Flemish V-test of VREG with which only fixed rates can be compared, to compare the variable contracts of the different suppliers at any time. With this benchmark tool, the CREG wants to wake up the many sleeping contracts. Since there is already a Flemish regulator who has developed a benchmark tool, would I have liked to know if there was any consultation between the two bodies, i.e. between the CREG and the VREG, on the plans to develop a new tool? It seems somewhat illogical to me that our various institutions should design other tools, because this creates a kind of fragmentation and then the consumer is completely confused. Are you in favour of concluding agreements in order to avoid duplication of work and double costs in this area and, above all, so that consumers know clearly who to target?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u136	Mr President, Mr Wollants, as a reminder, both at federal and regional level, energy regulators are completely independent from public authorities. They also exercise their powers independently in the field conferred on them by the law, the CREG at the federal level and the VREG, BRUGEL and the CWaPE in the respective regions. Of course the regulators talk to each other and there is an unofficial structure, the FORBEG, in which the four energy regulators exchange information or, for example, jointly coordinate reports or positions in debates at European level. With regard to comparators and price simulators, each regulator is free to develop its own comparator in its geographical area of competence. The three regional regulators have long developed and continuously improved their own price comparison in their region. The CREG has developed quality standards for these comparators: those of regional regulators, so-called official comparators, but also all price comparators or simulators available online established by consumer associations, professional groups or even private companies. All must therefore adhere to a good practice charter for price comparison websites, developed by CREG and, of course, meet the requirements of the same charter, namely readability, user-friendliness, transparency, accuracy, completeness and accuracy of data, independence from electricity and natural gas suppliers, impartiality. These sites bear the CREG label. For some time now, the CREG has been publishing price comparisons between suppliers operating in Belgium on its own website every month, at the beginning of the following month and quarterly. It shall do so on the basis of different types of contract, fixed price or variable price, with a very clear infography. For the comparison and choice of a particular supplier based on the consumer's personal data, the CREG website refers to the sites of other price competitors, which are marked CREG, namely the three sites of the three national regulatory authorities Monenergy, Comparator Energy/Compare Energy and Test-Achasing. The CREG has not developed its own price comparison. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u137	Mr President, Minister, the CREG is indeed independent. It must, of course, be able to answer to Parliament for the sums it spends. This is therefore a question which we must also ask in that context when the CREG submits the policy paper and the corresponding budget to Parliament. In this way, we can consider whether it is appropriate to organise things in this way. After all, I fear that the modal consumer may not put all the websites of all regulators together in order to draw its conclusions. We must try to keep it as simple as possible in this area. It is therefore strange that, if a tool already exists, they want to develop an overview on another website. We are therefore absolutely taking the matter with us when the CREG comes here to present its policy paper and asks Parliament for the means to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u138	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Question No 90, by Mr Wilrycx and No 9015 Mrs Dierick's 9267 will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u139	Mr President, Madam Minister, as you know, the governance of the Energy Union is based on three elements: the first two are the integrated national climate and energy plans and the review of planning and reporting obligations. In 2016, the Commission will carry out a quality control of existing planning and reporting obligations, in particular with regard to links to climate obligations. The results will be taken into account in the preparation of a proposal for the rationalization of these obligations, scheduled for the end of 2016. The third element is follow-up. It is a transparent monitoring system made by the Commission on the basis of the progress reports submitted by the Member States on the implementation of national plans, as well as key energy and climate indicators, which will make it possible to assess progress made at EU level. I will add regional cooperation. Regional cooperation is an important element for the achievement of the Energy Union and is already a reality in all the activities of the Energy Union. However, efforts must be continued. In 2016, the Commission plans to draw up guidelines on strengthening regional cooperation in the broad sense, and on how the Commission can facilitate regional approaches. In 2016, the Commission will propose legislation governing the main elements of the governance of energy Union policies. On the basis of quality control and ongoing discussions with Member States, the European Parliament and stakeholders, the Commission plans to present in 2016 a proposal on streamlining energy and climate planning and reporting requirements in order to align them with the strategic framework for an Energy Union. Minister, do you support the bottom-up approach chosen by the European Commission to implement this Energy Union? Is the chosen methodology, which is based on the actions and individual policies of the Member States, on which the Commission has very little control, optimal? Would it not be desirable to also consider a top-down scenario?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u140	Mr de Lamotte, Belgium supports the bottom-up approach chosen by the European Commission to implement this Energy Union. The Member States, including Belgium, were seeking to enter into a constructive dialogue with the European Commission. I have also had contacts with the Vice-President of the Commission, in charge of the Energy Union, Mr Maros Sefcovic, and with Miguel AM Canete, European Commissioner for Climate and Energy. As far as the methodology chosen is concerned, I would say that ultimately responsibility lies at the level of the Member States. National plans should also take into account the results of regional consultations in areas where enhanced cooperation with neighbouring Member States would be beneficial. In 2016, the Commission intends to provide guidance on how to strengthen regional cooperation in the broad sense and what it can do to facilitate regional approaches. The Commission intends to assess each year the progress made collectively at European Union level in its state of the Energy Union and, if necessary, propose actions and measures to ensure the implementation of the objectives of the Energy Union. To your question whether it would not be desirable to consider a top-down scenario too, the answer is "perhaps" but it is not realistic in the current framework of European legislation in relation to the competences of the Member States, under Article 194 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In the discussions on the Energy Union, Belgium has always supported the concept of the Energy Union with its five interrelated dimensions: security of supply, integration of the European energy market, energy efficiency and demand management, decarbonisation and competitiveness. Since its launch almost two years ago, the Energy Union has contributed to positive developments both in the internal market and externally. An additional added value of the Energy Union lies in an integrated and structured reporting, with realistic deadlines for the Member States. In this respect, Belgium has always advocated administrative simplification. Moreover, the Commission advocates for the future a national report for each Member State, a single report to cover all areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u141	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers, which I take note of.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u142	"The choice of nuclear power makes the climate goals little by little unattainable," headlined the press on 12 February. Without biomass power plants and current policy, Belgium will not even meet the already insufficient targets set for 2020. Not to mention that criticism of the green character of biomass plants is accumulating. You are not unaware of the whole debate that is taking place, particularly for the power stations in Ghent or Genk, for which political decisions are currently blocking subsidies. We therefore see that there is a fundamental challenge to the so-called renewable nature of this type of biomass power plant. But the mechanism is the same for solar and wind energy: maintaining nuclear power blocks investments and the paradigm shift needed for the energy transition. It should be noted that Belgium is currently about 7.9%, while the Belgian target is 13% by 2020. Given the climate emergency and the promises made, including by this government at COP21, this is a real disaster. So my question is simple: what do you intend to do, Madam Minister, to reach these figures? What investments are planned at wind and solar level? What do you think of the so-called green nature of biomass plants, especially in view of the current debate? Do you not think that we should consider reconsidering the decision on nuclear energy and reorienting investment? Do you not think, particularly in view of the commitments made at COP21, that these objectives should be even raised?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u143	The Paris Agreement includes ambitious objectives, including the development of renewable energies. In Belgium, the federal government is partly responsible for this objective through the development of offshore wind turbines. Can you, first, tell me what the federal targets are for 2020 and 2030? Secondly, what does burden sharing mean to me on this part? Thirdly, what progress has been made in translating the Burden Sharing Agreement into a genuine cooperation agreement? What are the steps to be taken? When will the next CNC meet to decide? Will it have this item on its agenda? What is your objective in terms of the timetable for approval of this future cooperation agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u144	I thank Mr Nollet for not updating his question of 18 March. Mr. Hedebouw updated it somewhat as he added elements while his question was dated February 15. I suppose he wants to link up with the current situation, especially in Flanders, in view of the questions he raises. My answer to your questions is as follows. Let us recall the most recent text of the COP21 that you know very well. The Paris Agreement has defined a number of major orientations to limit the rise of our planet's temperatures below two degrees Celsius in relation to the pre-industrial era. It was also agreed that the signatory countries should make efforts to limit the rise in temperatures to 1.5 C°. This will require a balance between anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions and natural absorption in the second half of the twenty-first century. In concrete terms, this implies very significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions from all emitting countries. The Paris Agreement significantly increases the level of ambition. The continued deployment of decarbonized energy will be an essential element in the development, in collaboration with my colleagues in the federal government and the Regions, of a visionary inter-federal energy policy. I would like to pay attention to the fact that Belgium is actively involved in the European discussions on this subject. The commitments made at COP21 will require the setting of targets by 2030, which must be done within a European framework first, taking into account the specificities and potentialities of each country. The mechanisms to be associated with it still need to be put in place at European level. Renewable energy has an important place in this development. While the solar depends on the Regions, the federal government continues to develop the offshore wind that falls within its jurisdiction. In this context, very important investments are being made. More specifically, with regard to the target of 13% renewable energy in final energy consumption in 2020, the political agreement on burden sharing concluded on 4 December 2015 between the four climate ministers provides for a contribution of 0.718 mega toe (million tonnes of oil equivalent) of about 8,350 gigawatts per hour for the federal authority. This federal contribution represents 17% of the total target estimated at 4.224 mega toe, enabling Belgium to achieve the target of 13% renewable energy in final energy consumption by 2020. For the 2030 deadline, a national climate-energy action plan is being prepared. A draft plan is planned for 2017. The National Climate Commission extended until 15 March 2016 the initial deadline given to the Burden Sharing Working Group, a group composed of jurists and experts on climate and energy, for the drafting of the text of the collaboration agreement starting from the political agreement of 4 December 2015. On 15 March, a draft cooperation agreement was submitted to the President of the National Climate Commission. The text contained options that were to be decided by the members of the Commission. In addition, there are still some technical aspects to be finalized. Several meetings are still scheduled for this month. The text will then have to be endorsed by the concertation committee, then submitted for signature by the four levels of power and passed to the Council of State before being presented to the respective parliaments of each entity. At this stage, it is difficult to announce a precise timetable for all these steps, given the technical aspects that I have just mentioned. While the adoption of the agreement is a priority, it is first necessary to seek the views of partners within governments and to consolidate the federal position around the options identified by the experts. Finally, I do not share the view of those who argue that maintaining nuclear power would make climate objectives inaccessible and block investments in renewables development. The long-term operation of three nuclear power plants – Tihange 1, Doel 1 and 2 – certainly does not contradict the overall objective of reducing CO2 emissions, on which the parties agreed in Paris at COP21, on the contrary. The IPCC comparative figures and scenarios bear witness to this. I refer in particular to my answer to Mr Nollet's written question No 187 in this respect. On the other hand, this long-term operation as such does not freeze investment in other projects for the construction of new electricity generation capacity. Indeed, as far as renewable energy investments are concerned, the targets to be achieved by 2020, which you mentioned, are unchanged, despite the exploitation of nuclear energy until 2025. It should be noted that these investments in renewable energy do not today meet a market logic, but a proactive policy of targets set in terms of percentage of final energy consumption and which is financially supported through green electricity production quotas and green certificates. With or without nuclear power, these renewable targets for 2020, which had previously been set, are intact and the associated investments are not slowed down. As for the freezing of other investments in new fossil power generation capacity, i.e. gas, it is more the joint cyclical phenomena of low international electricity prices - as I explained earlier - themselves due to various factors such as economic stagnation and the various subsidies of gas costs and the absence of a market value for CO2 itself that make the investments in power plants complex. These situations are not peculiar to Belgium, but cyclical throughout Europe, whether or not they concern countries with nuclear power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u145	Minister, my ears whistled when you used the word "voluntarism". We're still quick to be proactive in your government! Indeed, for the time being, it is not making much progress. I will respond in two phases. The first one, you refer to burden sharing. It has already taken you six years to reach the current agreement. If I understood with all the mess about biomass, we're back for years of negotiations. Lots of blabla and lots of discussions! The question is what's going on in the field. Secondly, you are telling me that there is no market problem with regard to nuclear energy. It must be remembered, however, that not all these billions brewed by this sector are reinvested in green! This decision is not possible at home, because it will be decided by a small staff. So we should be able to use this almost usurious surplus profit of this sector to fundamentally change our economy. That's not possible. You yourself have to do apothecary calculations. Also, this voluntarism that you described earlier, I would like to see it put into practice. Today, since media attention has clearly diminished on COP21, we are slowly but surely putting these ambitious goals back in the background, and I bitterly regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u146	Minister, Belgium was already late in Paris. We remember that. COP21 was inaugurated and the Prime Minister was still not in possession of an intrabelgian allocation agreement. We are five months later and soon it will be seven months with the timetable you are announcing, and we will still not have the legal translation into a cooperation agreement of what is, not a commitment for the future in relation to what the COP has decided, but the commitment on the past on the distribution side. That's amazing! We really haven't learned the lessons of the past! I asked you a few months ago and you said that the deadline was imminent. Actually, we're nowhere! No figures for 2030! No legal translation for the moment in a cooperation agreement! But what are you doing in relation to that? You're president of this National Climate Commission. We're busy dealing with the past and we're not anywhere yet! So don't talk about the future or other deadlines! I don't understand. This is a simple translation into a cooperation agreement and you are not there yet. I think it's a lack of will that we need to talk about, Mr. Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u147	First of all, in the six years before – some say eight – representatives of your political formation had energy responsibilities, Mr.Nollet. You know that. Secondly, the legal text of the previous cooperation agreement was recently voted by the federal government last January. You can see how late the previous legislatures have been. Here, we had an agreement because we had managed to counteract the slowness of previous governments. We had an agreement on December 4 before the ministerial segment started in Paris – you know, you were there, we were there at the same time. We immediately began the drafting work on which there are some arbitrations to be done, that is, within a few weeks. In the context I have just mentioned, for previous governments, you can add another year to the six or eight years of delay in reaching agreement for the previous burden sharing. As far as the next burden sharing (2020-2030) is concerned, you know very well - as I said in a few words in my reply - that Europe will give us the indications before the holidays so that we can work on it. I was sitting on 2 May last, that is yesterday, at the National Climate Commission and I was working on the further finalization of the legal agreement that I hope will come shortly. I am waiting for Europe's requirements to be able to work with my colleagues whom I meet regularly on the distribution of efforts for the energy-climate package 2020-2030. As for biomass, Mr. Hedebouw, this is a regional issue. I therefore do not see very well what you are introducing into the federal debate. It's your freedom, but it's not about the federal efforts to increase renewable energy in the final energy consumption of the people of this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u148	I am a flexible chair, although, as committee chair, I have received instructions from the Speaker of the House to enforce speaking times for questions, answers and replies. But if the minister replies after the colleagues' replies, I must give the floor back to Parliament. I therefore give the floor to Messrs. Hedebouw and Nollet because Parliament has the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u149	Mr President, Madam Minister, I should like to point out, on the subject of biomass, that our objectives are national. I can hear you saying, 'I am only responsible for my little poppy', but I would remind you that you are concerned with the coordination of the whole and that as such I would have wanted a slightly more proactive minister. I agree with my colleague Nollet. We can talk about a lack of ambition in this area. I hope to see a change in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u150	Minister, I don't think you realize the scale or urgency of the issue. If the previous governments, whose failures you so much like to recall, have had difficulties, it is because the ambition of some of them was systematically hampered by the Liberals whom you were and in those governments whose failure you have shown. Today, the message given from Paris, you relay it in instances where there are no external critical voices. If, with regard to urgency, you are not aware today that everything that is involved in the climate issue must be done in the next ten years, then I believe that you have not understood anything about the message that was given in Paris. That is what I regret most.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u151	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 9732 question is converted into a written question. Questions Nos 10267 and 10272 by Mrs Lalieux have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u152	Mr President, I have just received a text message from Kristof Calvo asking you to turn his questions into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u153	The secretariat takes note of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u154	Madam Minister, at our committee on 8 October 2015, seven months ago, I asked you about the publication of the national programme for the management of spent fuel and nuclear waste, which, pursuant to the 2011 directive, was to be submitted to the Commission no later than 23 August 2015. You announced at that time that the program would be available within a month and a half or two months. If we do the calculation, a month and a half or two since October 8, that means early December. I would like to know when the order approving the program was made, when the program was made available to the general public, and on which site it is available to download.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u155	Mr President, as foreseen by the Act of 3 June 2014, which completed the transposition into domestic law of Directive 2011/70 Euratom of the European Council of 19 July 2011, the National Programme Committee responsible for its establishment has forwarded to Mr Peeters and myself a proposal for a national programme. We have submitted it for consultation with the SEA Advisory Committee. Considering that this draft programme was limited to a description, without new normative content of the situation existing as at 31 December 2014, the SEA opinion committee concluded that the first edition of the national programme should not be subject to a strategic environmental assessment. This draft national programme has yet to be deliberated in the Council of Ministers. Once the national programme is deliberated in the Council of Ministers, it will be immediately available on the website of the Energy DG of the SPF Economy before being subsequently available on a website dedicated to the national programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u156	Minister, I feel like I'm hallucinating. You are telling me that the draft has yet to be deliberated in the Council of Ministers. You've already dropped it off and it's blocked somewhere in intercabinets, it's not possible otherwise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u157	It is not blocked somewhere, it is blocked in intercabinets, where it discusses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u158	In October 2015, you told me that this program would be available in a month and a half or two. Today, you tell me that, in fact, it is still under discussion in the Council of Ministers. I would then like you, Madam Minister, to give us at least, not the precise content, but the dimensions that are problematic, when you yourself say that this programme only translates what already exists.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u159	I suggest that you rest a new question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u160	Mr President, this is the third time I have asked the question. In October 2015, I am told that it will be published in a month and a half. I ask the question today and I am told to rest a question. Where are we? It is a European obligation. This was to be filed on August 23, 2015. It is sent to the European Commission, but it is said that this is not yet approved by the Council of Ministers. We can laugh, we can laugh at a lot, and it is better to laugh at it sometimes, but our national waste programme is sent to the European Commission when it is not yet approved by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u161	Mr Nollet, I am organising the proceedings, I am hearing the questions, I am listening to the answers. I do not prejudge the government's answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u162	You see with me that there's a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u163	We are in the context of your reply to the minister's response. I'm listening to your line, but I'm not getting involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u164	We invented the perpetual movement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u165	Mr Nollet, I take note of your reply. I can't tell you anything else.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u166	It's amazing!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u167	Question No 11230 by Mr Kristof Calvo is transformed into a written question. Question No 11232 by Mrs Karine Lalieux falls.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u168	Mr. Chairman, Minister, my question relates to the request of nuclear operators for a state guarantee. Unable to find an insurance company willing to cover less than 1 per cent of the risks of nuclear accidents, the operators turned to the state to ask for help, somewhat like the banks which, after having mocked the state for many years, arrived at the beginning of the 2008 financial crisis on 16 rue de la Loi, begging the state to come and help them. During the committee work on the Doel project, you informed us that, after initially seeking to have the law amended at the last moment, the government was now thinking about offering a state guarantee solution. A few days before the 31st of March, I wrote at the time, I wish you could have told us where you are. What legal path have you chosen? An arrest? What is the status of his journey since this date of March 31 is now behind us? In substance, what is the content of your proposals and what remuneration will you ask the recipients of this new state gift? When will the file be completely closed? I would remind you that in our work on Bill 1511, you said in the report: "In any event, operators must find coverage before 31 March in the context of the new international obligations." I'll keep this extract at your disposal. We're beyond March 31st. What?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u169	Mr. President, this is the continuation of the series. Minister, the regime for the civil liability of nuclear operators has been amended with the coming into force of the Act of 29 June 2014 on the civil liability of nuclear operators, I am not teaching you anything. While you announced that you would consider, at the end of last year, postponing the entry into force of the law of June 29, 2014, as long as a solution can be found, this track is no longer valid since the text has already entered into force. Moreover, this law gave 90 days to the nuclear operators to put themselves in order of insurance, thus until 31 March. And those who thought they couldn't find an insurer to cover the new risks had 30 days to let the government know. We have already mentioned this point in the debate on the draft law on the Doel 1 and 2 Convention. You mentioned that "nuclear operators have sought in vain to insure this new risk in the current insurance market. The competent minister, Mr Kris Peeters, was therefore questioned in this case. In any event, operators must find coverage before 31 March, as part of the new international obligations. The government is currently considering a possible solution." Minister, what is the current situation with respect to the coverage of the civil liability of nuclear operators? Are there any nuclear operators who have not found a cover? Is the track of the Royal Decree allowing the State to implement a guarantee still under consideration? If so, why has it not yet been published?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u170	Mr President, before replying on this very important issue, I must point out that the amending protocols to the Paris Conventions and the Brussels Supplementary Protocol of 12 February 2004, which form the basis of the Act of 29 June 2014 amending the Act of 22 July 1985 on civil liability in the field of nuclear energy, have not yet entered into force. The deposit of the instruments of ratification of these two protocols by all the parties must in fact take place simultaneously in the head of the parties which are the signatory States, which are also Member States of the European Union. (Some of them are not members of the European Union.) This applies only to the States of the European Union. This obligation arises from European Commission Decision 2004/294 of 8 March 2004. To date, neither the United Kingdom nor Italy are prepared to deposit their instruments of ratification. This was the reason why the government intended to postpone the entry into force of the Act of 29 June 2014, in accordance with the advice of the Council of State on the preliminary draft laws of the previous legislature. However, the amending act of 29 June 2014 came into effect on 1 January 2016, as the amendment to postpone entry into force was not voted until the end of 2015. This entry into force extending the definition of nuclear damage and amending the statute of limitations has in fact raised direct and concrete insurance coverage problems to cover the only additions resulting from this entry into force on 1 January 2016. For example, some items of new damage, the environment, as well as the difference between the ten-year and thirty-year requirements for the repair of personal injuries that do not find an insurer on the market or, more precisely, not up to the amount required by law. As a reminder, this amount was already the amount to be insured before the law came into force and it is the amount entered in the insurance policies renewed on January 1, 2016 under the former legislation. The nuclear insurance pools refuse to cover up to EUR 1.2 billion for environmental damage for which the available coverage is currently around EUR 300 million, as well as personal damage beyond the 10-year requirement. This refusal is not specific to Belgian insurers and is not linked to an assessment of the risk specific to the installations in our territory. This is a refusal of all nuclear pools, which are bound together by reinsurance agreements which, while having the advantage of increasing the available capacity, are also based on a common understanding of the risks covered. Reticence for full coverage of environmental risk is due in particular to uncertainty about the definition of the concept and lack of experience in an area where claims are fortunately very infrequent. With respect to personal injury, in addition to the risk of very high and speculative claims, insurers are likely to fear a high level of litigation and disproportionate case management costs over a very long period of time (30 years) compared to the coverage offered. Evidence of the causal link between an accident and injury would also be very difficult to establish. There is no way of forcing nuclear pools to cover these posts. Moreover, it would not be a matter of forcing the only Belgian pool, but also all the others, given the interdependence and the reinsurance between these pools. Of course, operators can use the services of Elini, a mutual operator, set up to offer, in particular, coverage not offered by the traditional insurance sector. However, this player's limited capacity does not fill market gaps. For a coverage or a combination of blankets to meet the requirements of the law, it would also have to offer €1.2 billion, even if all the damage is physical damage recorded beyond the 10-year requirement. Therefore, from the first days of 2016, and even before December 2015, I organised a consultation with the stakeholders to identify problems and encourage operators to make the best use of market resources as required by law, in close cooperation with my colleagues the Ministers of Economy and Finance. The follow-up to these cases is indeed the responsibility of my colleagues, the Minister of Economy, who is competent for insurance, and the Minister of Finance, who is competent for state guarantees. Pursuant to the new article 10/1 of the Act of 22 July 1985, due to the entry into force of the Nuclear Energy Liability Act 2014, my colleague, the Minister of Economy, is responsible for declaring admissible any requests for State guarantees made by operators of nuclear installations without insurance to cover certain items of damage. My colleague is also entitled to postpone the 31 March deadline to which you refer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u171	Did he do it or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u172	He did. I can do it. After verifying the state of the nuclear insurance market, all the operators concerned submitted reasoned applications in order to benefit from a State guarantee covering items for which the market offered only partial coverage in accordance with Article 32(1) of the Law of 29 June 2014. My colleague the Minister of Economy has declared all these applications admissible by decrees of 25 March 2016 published in the Belgian Monitor of 5 April 2016. These requests are still under investigation. Finally, it is my colleague the Minister of Finance who is competent to offer such guarantees, at the request of the nuclear operators who number 11, at the conclusion of a procedure and formalities described in Article 10/1 of the Act of 22 July 1985 and at fair remuneration. Such pricing should obviously not qualify as prohibited State aid. This matter is currently being investigated by the Minister of Finance. The services of the FPS Finance Debt Agency are still to develop a draft Royal Order on State Guarantee. Pursuant to section 32, paragraph 2, of the Act of 29 June 2014, the Minister of the Economy extended the period necessary for the investigation – the period of absence of days between 1 January and 31 March – referred to in paragraph 1 until 31 December of that year. During this period, nuclear operators shall retain the advantage of their recognition for the period necessary for the investigation of the application for a State guarantee, as provided for in Article 10/1 of the Law of 22 July 1985. My two colleagues and their respective administrations are therefore making every effort and undertaking all the necessary actions in order to succeed. I obviously offer them my assistance in order to achieve the desired objective. Finally, it should be noted that the same insurability problems are found, mutatis mutandis, in all the parties, i.e. the Member States to the Convention, which propose additional mechanisms comparable to that envisaged by Belgium: i.e. State guarantee or recourse to a public reinsurer benefiting itself from a State guarantee. It should be noted that on the day the above amending protocols are ratified by all parties, a new market will open to insurers. It is likely that the purpose and scope of the insurable risks will tend to be reduced, as indicated by the progress made in the meantime by operators in the search for alternative cover in order to avoid or reduce the extent of the use of the State guarantee mechanism. Your questions would not have been relevant if the coming into force of the law of 29 June 2014 could have been postponed. I don't mind. That is the case. In this case, you are not solely responsible for it, since the agreement was reached at the Conference of Presidents. So everyone contributed to it. This speeding up of the process also poses problems of coordination with the other parties to the Paris Convention, which are also members of the European Union, since these States are bound by a Council decision binding them to ratify together the protocol on which the law is based. This is also the reason why the government has decided to take steps with the two delayers, Italy and England, to speed up the process of ratification of the protocols of 12 February. In response to a specific question put by Mr Calvo, although not there, a fundamental reform of nuclear civil liability is not currently on the agenda. The above-mentioned amending protocols of 2004 must first come into force. Nor has the government so far addressed the issue of unlimited civil liability. The government's objective is to solve the problem associated with the entry into force of the Act of 29 June 2014, which provides for a principle of limited liability as well as the protocols. In conclusion, I would like to refer you to the reply given under the previous legislature by the then Minister of Economy, Mr Vande Lanotte, author with the Secretary of State, Mr Wathelet, of the aforementioned legal provision, that of 29 June 2014. That was an answer to Mr Clarinval's question No 14858. I quote: "If the availability of EUR 1.2 billion in nuclear insurance on the market has not been called into question in a global way, some insurers may find it difficult to cover all types of damage up to this amount. In this case, insurers issue reserves for certain items. An operator who does not find comprehensive insurance on the market could either combine several insurance contracts or produce a financial guarantee or a combination of the two. The forthcoming ratification of the protocol of 12 February 2004, amending the Paris Convention, could bring new factors of tension in the insurance market. The coverage of environmental damage, even if strictly marked, and the shift from the 10-year to the 30-year prescription, now borne by the State in the future by the operator, give rise to reservations on the part of the insurance market. However, I do not want to prejudge the state of the market on the date of entry into force of this new modernisation of the law of nuclear civil liability", said Mr Vande Lanotte. "The option of a State guarantee to remedy the possible impossibility for the operator to obtain insurance or a financial guarantee satisfying all legal requirements is indeed a lead. The granting of such a guarantee is possible only by means of a remuneration the amount of which should be fixed in such a way as not to distort the market. This solution, for which the intervention of my colleague, the Minister of Finance, is of course indispensable, must not be examined in the light of current events alone. Such a provision must also be aimed at dealing with cyclical and/or unpredictable changes in the insurance market, as has been shown, for example, by the experiences of some States with regard to the coverage of terrorist risk."
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u173	Minister, the length of your answer cannot hide the fundamental problem that lies behind the issue at hand here. Thus, like the banks, the nuclear sector is drifting. Insurance companies are the first to be aware of this. That is why they have decided not to cover the risks associated with nuclear power. This signal is purely economic. You are smiling, minister, but even if there is only 1% of the risks (1.2 billion) – for Fukushima, 450 billion – the sector is no longer in a position to find organizations that agree to insure it. You will tell me that this is not just happening in Belgium, but it is not done to reassure me. Do you know other sectors that are in the same situation? There is no such thing. In view of the situation, what is the sector in question doing? He's turning to the states. But some States do not allow themselves and assume that beyond the percentage that will be insured on the basis of the international convention that is yet to enter into force, nuclear power producers retain individual responsibility beyond the question of insurance. This is particularly the case in Germany.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u174	It's good that you're talking about Germany. But in the end, if this exceeds 2.5 billion, it is the German state that will cover the costs. You know that very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u175	No. Operators must take charge of them until the end. It is obvious that if a disaster were to cost, for example, 450 billion euros, the operator's bankruptcy would be declared and the state should intervene. When it comes to nuclear power, that's the ultimate risk. The problem lies in the fact that, in the end, it is always the State that assumes responsibility. But if we consider a situation where one sector cannot be insured for 1 per cent of the costs associated with a nuclear disaster compared to another in which the State takes over everything, there is room for manoeuvre and political direction should be given. The postponement to 31 December decided by your colleague Peeters is not a good thing as there will be no significant development in the situation until then. This just gives a kind of oxygen buoy, to give the illusion that a solution can be found. I would like to conclude my speech by going back to the Conference of Presidents and your way of "wetting" everyone. You're the only one in charge! You have been a minister since October 2014 and you could have introduced a bill. I'm sure the president would have found, in his tight agenda...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u176	He would have been given priority over the oral questions in that case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u177	But you haven't thought about it or you haven't been able to do enough or you've been thinking about it yourself. I have no doubt that this last option is certainly not one of your priorities. At the end of the day, however, there is a situation where there is no insurance and the 31 March deadline is exceeded. The only thing that's still going on is that we've extended this deadline but it doesn't allow us to hide this situation in the nuclear sector, which is all by itself, except to cling to the Belgian state by saying: "You're going to pay me well if I ever have a disaster, you're going to take over my insurance." This is proof that nuclear power is absolutely not a sector of the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u178	Minister, in relation to the Act of 29 June 2014 amending the Act of 22 July 1985, the state guarantee, which we voted on, is not in question. But the management of this file and the length of your response explain the chaotic management of this event and position. In fact, the delay as mentioned did not happen here because it was up to you to table the text. You are not going to ask parliamentarians to table a text asking for the postponement when it is within your competence, the competence of the government, the King through a royal decree. I remember having experienced the kind of great cinema concerning the postponement or not in relation to the Conference of Presidents. It was up to you to table the text! You did it in too short a time. What is the status of Mr Peeters' decision? When JUSTEL is consulted on the decisions and implementing orders of the law of 22 July 1985, there is nothing at all! Maybe it's a computer error or a bug...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u179	It's published by excerpt on April 5. We have it and we can send it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u180	The question of legal certainty does indeed arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u181	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u182	I'm talking about JUSTEL. It's not published in the Monitor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u183	It's published in excerpts, actually.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u184	By excerpts, it means we don't have the whole thing. Could we have the text in its entirety? I don't think we should go back to the fact. This is a government decision that was not made on time and the explanation you provided explains your embarrassment and the chaotic management of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u185	Mr. Wollants left us. Mrs de Coster-Bauchau is not present as is Mr Calvo. Their questions will therefore become irrelevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u186	Mr President, Madam Minister, we were informed that on 24 March the European Commission sent a reasoned opinion to Belgium on 25 February finding that the electricity and gas directives had been incorrectly transposed. No fewer than 10 points are raised, including interconnections or consumer protection. One of Europe's most important grievances: the impossibility for companies other than the incumbent system operator, of the transmission system, to create, develop and operate interconnections at borders. Europe also notes that Belgian law capped administrative fines which the CREG could impose on 3% of the turnover of the undertaking concerned instead of the 10% requested by the Directives. Last important point: the European Commission blames Belgium for the fact that certain consumer protection provisions are only translated into a sectoral agreement which is only necessary for suppliers who adhere to it. The Commission stresses that this is insufficient. Clearly, the responses you provided in January 2015 did not convince the Commission that it had moved on to the next stage. At the time, the response time had not yet expired. However, I would like to know whether you intend to stay on your line or whether you agree to go along the lines indicated by Europe on each of these essential points. I wish I had been sure that everything was in order to reply before 25 April – but I am obviously asking my question after 25 April – a date set by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u187	Mr Nollet, the answer will be long and quite technical. The Commission issues a reasoned opinion...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u188	I cannot or intend to prevent you from answering.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u189	I'm just saying that the answer will be searched. The Commission issues a reasoned opinion on the following articles and there are quite a number of reasons. Firstly, Article 9, paragraph 1, point a of European Commission Directives 2009/72 and 2009/73 concern the condition that the system operator be the exclusive owner of the network in the model of integral dissociation of ownership culture. Article 10 of the same Directives, read in the light of Articles 49 and 63 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, states that "because of the limitation of the number of transmission system operators to a single operator, there is no possibility for undertakings other than the incumbent manager to create, develop and operate interconnections." Articles 31, 32, 33, 41, § 6, 10 read in conjunction with Article 36 of Directive 2009/73 state that: "With regard to interconnection with the United Kingdom, Article 25 of the Gas Act provides for a derogation regime for the UK interconnector and makes certain provisions of the law inapplicable to it. However, the interconnection in question has never benefited from a derogation under Article 22 of Directive 2003/55 or Article 36 of Directive 2009/73. Article 37(4) in points a, b, c, d and 9 of Directive 2009/72 and Article 41(6)a, b, c, d and 9 of Directive 2009 state that the three preceding objections concern the independence, functions and powers of the Federal Regulatory Authority. Article 37(10) of Directive 2009/72 of the European Commission and Article 41(10) of Directive 2009/73 state that this complaint concerns the independence, function and powers of the regulatory authorities. Indeed, the tariff jurisdiction for distribution tariffs became regional jurisdiction, therefore either in the hands of the Brussels-Capital Region, the Flemish Region and the Walloon Region on 1 July 2014. The Commission has therefore received responses regarding the distribution rates for each of the three Regions and the federal transportation rates. Annex 1, points b, c, d, e, f, h, j to Directive 2009/72 and Annex 1, points b, c, d, f, h, j to Directive 2009/73 state that this complaint concerns consumer protection. This competence is also shared with the Regions, e.g. invoice data. The Commission reiterates its comments already expressed in the letter of formal notice concerning the legal value and binding force of the sectoral agreement. With regard to the UK interconnector, we intend to follow the Commission's opinion and amend Article 25 of the Gas Act. As regards the sanctioning power of the federal regulator, we will increase the maximum amount of the fine from 3% to 10% of the turnover of the transmission system operator as requested by the Commission. For the other grievances, the examination is under way and must be done on certain points in collaboration with the Regions and my colleague in charge of consumer protection, Minister Kris Peeters. With regard to directives to be transposed, States may choose the most appropriate means of achieving the objectives set. The Commission should therefore in principle examine whether the objectives are being achieved and take account of the effectiveness of European law. For example, with regard to the requirement for single transmission system operators, the TSO to own the network, the Commission blames the fact that in Belgian legislation the transmission system operator must own 75 % of the network, whereas the directives require 100 %. In practice, the electricity and gas Fluxys TSOs were declared 100% owners of their network at the time of the certification by the CREG thus guaranteeing the effectiveness of European law. The objective is therefore achieved. European law is effective on this point. In the end, it will be up to the Court of Justice of the European Union to decide whether Belgium has correctly transposed if, however, the Commission decides to bring Belgium before the European court for failure to fulfil its obligations. The response to the Commission is due by 25 July 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u190	Mr. Chairman, I would like to point out that my two questions are identical, but the second was addressed to the Prime Minister and was referred to the Minister. Minister, the press recently revealed that you hired Luc Warichet in your office, a new expert to follow the offshore file that works in parallel for the Nethys group. I think he works one day a week for you and four days for the Nethys group, one of the largest Belgian shareholders in the North Sea wind industry. Luc Warichet works with RESA, one of Nethys' subsidiaries, and the 13 members of RESA's board all sit on Nethys' board of directors. The PTB had already stressed the presence in your firm of experts coming directly from Electrabel, in a different configuration since they no longer work at Electrabel. In both cases, this raises serious questions, even if the problem arises differently in both cases, especially when we see the energy policy choices of this government. So my questions are as follows. Do you not see a potential direct conflict of interest between the two functions? How do you guarantee the independence of your firm's experts? On what basis are they selected? Can you provide Parliament with the comprehensive CVs of your energy collaborators and advisers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u191	Mr Van Hees, Mr Warichet worked at my office for a purely technical task relating to simulations of electricity prices. In my view, therefore, there was no conflict of interest between this activity and his professional engagement with RESA. Moreover, I read on the site of this company that it is the main operator of electricity and gas distribution systems in the province of Liège. As a pure public service DSO, RESA's primary function is to deliver electricity and gas via medium- and low-voltage electricity networks and medium- and low-voltage gas pressures to users, both professional and private.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u192	RESA and Nethys, it's not the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u193	That's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u194	Mr President, I think that Mr de Lamotte, by a Belgian jump, wanted to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u195	If you provoke me, I can show you the difference. You answer next door. I simply draw your attention to this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u196	Mr de Lamotte, I have not finished my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u197	You mustn't provoke me either!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u198	We don't argue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u199	But you're really "hotball": you're reacting to the quarter turn!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u200	I'm paying attention to what you're saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u201	Connections, maintenance and troubleshooting are an integral part of RESA's mission. This is on the site. As a precautionary principle, as his technical mission has been accomplished, I have put an end to this commitment within my firm. The offshore file is managed by a collaborator who has been engaged since my firm was formed and is absolutely foreign to the sector. Cabinet staff prepare the work so that the government can make political decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u202	Mr Van Hees, are you completely satisfied?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u203	Not entirely, Mr. President. Minister, I had asked to provide Parliament with the comprehensive CVs of your energy collaborators and advisors. I did not get an answer to that question. I am not entirely satisfied because the answer is quite formal. It's RESA, it's not Nethys; it's working in that sector and not in that sector. It's formalism, from the moment RESA is part of the Nethys group, we have a problem because they're in the same group. The evidence is that, obviously, you have found more or less that there was a potential problem, since you say that you have applied a precautionary principle by putting an end to his commitment. I conclude that you acknowledge that there is a problem, but that you have difficulty expressing it clearly. I can understand that. Similarly, I find that you do not answer, because this was not the main purpose of the question, to the aspect that relates to the people of your firm directly from Electrabel. We can still see that your policy is quite in line with Electrabel's expectations, particularly in the nuclear issue. The word is weak, Mr. Nollet, indeed. I think that this problem still exists in the head of the people who, within your firm, come from Electrabel. Clearly, this is no longer the case for Mr. Warichet. I think there is a beginning to your awareness of the potential problems of conflict of interest, and I urge you to go further in your thinking.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u204	Mr President, I would like to be able to reply, as was planned earlier. Minister, I'd like you to be specific. From when to when did Mr. Warichet become part of your firm? You say you ended your collaboration, but since when?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u205	Our collaboration lasted from March 30 to April 30, one month.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u206	Question No 11220 by Mrs Len Dierick is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u207	Mr President, could we not have the results of the simulations of the energy price that Mr Warichet has made?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u208	Mr de Lamotte, you will have the opportunity to take advantage of his work when I come to Parliament with the major decisions that we are going to take on the basis of the studies that I have commissioned and which concern the federal vision in terms of energy, of the need for flexibility for the years to come, considering the release of nuclear power in 2025.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u209	Mr. President, you understand my impatience. Mr Warichet works for a month at a fifth time and defines the price of energy. This must be interesting as a study! Madam Minister, five countries would seek to amend a new draft European Commission directive aimed at strengthening security of gas supply and combating any disruption of gas supply within the European Union. In fact, Bloomberg News announced on 8 April that Austria, Belgium, France, Germany and Italy have opposed the idea of giving more powers on security of supply to the European Union authorities. The European Commission had proposed closer regional cooperation between Member States and more control over contracts with Russia and other external suppliers. Natural Gas Europe states that the Belgian Ministry of Economy and Energy would have mentioned: "We can confirm that Belgium and four other countries are not satisfied with the European Commission's proposal. The document is not public, but Belgium is mainly opposed to the current proposal for a regional geographical division of security of supply. We are in favour of first conducting a risk analysis of the regional division of security of supply and discussing regional division on the basis of the results of this risk analysis. At the moment, there is no calendar available." Madam Minister, do you confirm these comments made by Natural Gas Europe? Could you elaborate on the problematic points for Belgium regarding this draft directive and explain the reasons why they are problematic? What is the status of the European Energy Council's work on this subject? Has the European Commission agreed to work on this methodology?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u210	Dear colleague, DG Energy has not sent a communication to the attention of a Natural Gas Europe press body. It joined the non-paper on the draft revision of European Regulation 994/2010 concerning measures to ensure security of supply of natural gas, published by the European Commission on 16 February. Following a number of exchanges between many Member States, five of them took the initiative to send a non-paper to the European Commission, which, according to them, follows the guidelines which should be taken by the revision of the Regulation in order to make its implementation more effective and easily practicable by the Member States, while respecting the roles and responsibilities of the actors involved in security of supply. The non-paper reviews the main points of the draft regulation, such as the new model of cooperation, provisions to strengthen solidarity, the role and responsibilities of natural gas companies, Member States and the European Commission, adaptations to infrastructure standards and transparency and exchange of information. As regards regional division as proposed in the draft Regulation, the non-paper suggests an alternative to the Commission proposal to freeze Member States' cooperation in predefined regional cooperation. It should be noted that the draft introduced by the Commission proposes that Belgium be included in the group of the following Member States: the Netherlands, France, Spain, Portugal and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Such an approach we consider to be rigid would not be in line with market practice and would unnecessarily limit the flexibility that is necessary for effective cooperation and solidarity in the event of a crisis. To be effective, regional cooperation should be able to adapt flexibly to the various transnational risks to gas supply. For example, the risks associated with the conversion of L-gas, the disruption of supply by a major supplier, or the risks associated with the LNG market. It should be noted that the proposal to restrict Germany and Belgium to different regions is not justified in view of the synergies between the two countries and their gas markets. It should also be pointed out that the fact that this non-paper was signed by five Member States in the context of a broader discussion involving more than ten Member States constitutes tangible proof that Belgium and a number of European Member States are part of an initiative, fully and at all times, in a spirit of regional cooperation between Member States, without the need for the modalities of this collaboration to be fixed in a European regulation. You ask me to detail the problematic points for Belgium regarding this project and to explain the regions for which they are problematic. I'll tell you about this in six items. The group to which Belgium belongs, according to the Commission's proposal, is composed of the following countries: the Netherlands, France, Spain, Portugal and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. According to the draft new Regulation, the risk analysis, the preventive action plan and the emergency plan must be unique and common between these Member States, while the energy mix and the resulting risk sensitivity are fundamentally different within this region. For example, a breakdown in the supply of poor gas from the Netherlands would have no impact on the security of supply of Portugal and Spain, even though this would have a huge impact on Belgium. Secondly, in view of the binding nature of an emergency plan, it was by ministerial decree that Belgium made the relevant provisions mandatory. For this reason, it is not possible to give this national legal framework a regional dimension. The strict implementation of the Commission's current proposal could result - thirdly - in the event of a supply crisis in Belgium, only the European Commission and the countries in the region to which Belgium belongs should be notified. This means in practice that countries such as Portugal and Spain should be warned as a matter of priority, not countries directly bordering Belgium, such as the United Kingdom and Germany, when these countries are likely to be by far faster and more strongly impacted by a supply crisis in Belgium. Fourth element: the obligation of transparency of certain types of commercial supply contracts could have counterproductive effects on security of supply. This additional requirement could be an additional argument on the market for further abandoning long-term contracts, in favour of a business strategy based solely on short-term purchases, thus on spot markets. Fifth, as regards solidarity, many of the problems in the current regulations remain unresolved in this draft revision. Thus, the concept of 'protected customer' does not take into account the interactions between energy vectors and, in particular, between natural gas supply and security of electricity supply. It is not intended that a Member State may consider that the volumes of gas essential for natural gas power stations are to be regarded as volumes which must escape the principle of European solidarity. The lack of gas supply to power stations, which may in certain circumstances lead to a disruption of electricity supply, seems to us incomplete and dangerous to take into account only the provisions aimed at ensuring the supply of gas to protected customers, whereas at the same time the electricity supply which is essential for the proper functioning of domestic heating equipment would be compromised. Last point: another technical problem not solved by the current proposal for a regulation concerns the tens of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises supplied with gas via the distribution network. In the event of a crisis, Member States may only take into account the volume of gas consumed by such consumers up to a maximum of 20% of final gas consumption. In practice, since, in the majority of cases, it is impossible to verify whether tens of thousands of companies comply with a consumption reduction order, this provision leads to a mismatch between the operational possibilities of the field and the European legal obligations to be met in the event of a crisis. "What is the status of the work in the European Energy Council on this subject?", Ask yourself. Currently, the various articles of the draft regulation are being examined and discussed. Articles shall be examined one by one and each Member State shall have the opportunity to make observations, proposals or requests for clarification. At this stage, half of the articles were discussed as part of a first reading of the texts in the Council's Energy Working Party. Last question: "Did the European Commission agree to work on this methodology?" The proposal was forwarded to the Commission as part of the non-paper, including other comments made by the signatory Member States. As the negotiations are under way, it is premature to decide on the outcome of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u211	I thank the Minister for her response. I take note of that. We will return to the file as it is constantly evolving.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u212	Colleagues, Minister, the agenda is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u213	Mr President, as has been desired, I propose that we should already set a Wednesday afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic407x.u214	We will look at this together and keep the commitment that has been made. As I do not know a number of data on the agenda for the next few weeks, I am not going to set a date now, but I assure you that we will do so in response to the request made in this committee. Colleagues, the meeting is adjourned.
