ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u2	The President (in front of the standing assembly) On 31 December 2015, in Veurne, Marcel Gesquiere died, former member of the Chamber of Representatives. He was 85. He was born in 1930 in a working family and was the third of five sons. When he was 16, he started working. First he was a clerk at an important financial institution, then he started working at the RTT. And in the meantime, he built his future through evening classes. Marcel Gesquiere built a beautiful political career on different levels. As an active member of the trade union sector, in 1975 he became president of the local section of the PSB (Belgian Socialist Party). The following year, he led the socialist list for the communal elections in Furnes and brought his party into the majority where it would remain until 1982. Marcel Gesquiere sits on the Furnes Municipal Council and the West Flanders Provincial Council. From 1977 to 1981, he served as a bishop of Public Works in the municipality of Furnes. In 1987 he was elected SP representative for the Arrondissement of Veurne-Diksmuide Oostende. He fulfilled that mandate until the end of 1991 and then became a senator for the province of West Flanders, until 1995. From February 1988 to November 1991 he was also a member of the Flemish Council as a result of the then existing double mandate. At the first direct elections to the Flemish Parliament on 21 May 1995, he was elected to the Veurne-Diksmuide-Ieper Oostende constituency. However, he was only Flemish representative for a few months and was succeeded in October 1995 by Jacky Maes. In our Assembly, Marcel Gesquiere has a reputation as an affable, but stubborn politician. As a regular member of the Committee on Agriculture and the Middle Classes, he regularly intervenes on Belgian policy on hormones and to defend the interests of the maritime fisheries sector. Throughout his political career, he worked tirelessly to overcome the economic, social and cultural backwardness of Westhoek, the region dear to his heart, by promoting employment in that region. In the passing of this honest and socially motivated man, I expressed my sincere condolences to his family on behalf of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, together with Parliament, the federal government wishes to pay tribute to Mr Marcel Gesquiere. Born and raised in Veurne, he built a beautiful political career from that West-Flemish municipality. Eventually it was in that same Veurne that he died on the last day of 2015. Marcel Gesquiere was a very committed, hardworking and courageous man. He was only sixteen when he started working. He was initially active in the union. In the mid-1970s, he decided to transpose his commitment to political life. He brings it to the Chamber and then to the Senate, where he stays for many years and with his extensive life experience is a great added value. He was also strongly present at the local level. In 1976 he helped his party in the municipal majority. In 1977 he became a ship of Public Works in the city of Veurne. In West Flanders everyone knew him within the sp.a and of course in his congregation. His death leaves a great void with all those who were ever allowed to meet him. In the name of the federal government, I would like to express my sincere condolences to his family, his relatives and his former colleagues. We wish them much strength during these difficult days.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we observe some silence in memory of the late colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u5	I have received an amendment to the bill (Mr Patrick Dewael and Mrs Carina Van Cauter and Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu) amending the Criminal Code as regards the criminalisation of the sexual assault of the honourable Member, No. 699/1. I have received an amendment to the bill (Mr Patrick Dewael and Mrs Carina Van Cauter and Ms Sabien Lahaye-Battheu) amending the Penal Code with regard to the criminalization of the indecent assault, No. 699/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 January 2016, I propose that the bill be sent back to the Justice Committee in order to discuss this amendment. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 January 2016, I propose that you refer the bill to the Justice Committee in order to allow for the consideration of this amendment. The legislative proposal will be discussed in plenary today after discussion of the amendment in committee. Discussion of the bill will continue in plenary, after consideration of the amendment in committee. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I leave the chairman of the Committee on Justice to set the time and the room.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u6	Mr President, thank you for your proposal. At what time do you want us to meet the committee: after the questions or now? For me, it doesn't matter: the amendment is very brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u7	It's what you want!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u8	Perhaps it would be better just after the questions, so that everyone could participate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u9	That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u10	On the agenda for this afternoon's plenary session, I would like to present the motion for a resolution (Mr Philippe Blanchart, Mr Stéphane Crusnière and Mr Elio Di Rupo, Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius, Mrs Fabienne Winckel and Mr Fatma Pehlivan and Mr Dirk Van Der Maelen) on Poland and the defence of European values, No. 1581/1, to be registered. I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the motion for a resolution (MM. Philippe Blanchart, Stéphane Crusnière and Elio Di Rupo, Ms Gwenaëlle Grovonius, Ms Fabienne Winckel and Mr Fatma Pehlivan and Mr Dirk Van Der Maelen) on Poland and the defence of European values, No 1581/1. The Committee on External Relations proposes that this proposal be rejected. The Committee on External Relations proposes to reject this proposal. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u11	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the welcome news that Audi will be investing heavily in an electric motor vehicle in the coming years, which will be developed in Vorst. As a result, we will be able to assure 2 500 people a job. We do not yet talk about suppliers and other companies, which will benefit from this. At least 2 500 families are involved in a positive way. That is not an isolated fact, because today we read in the newspaper that the number of collective redundancies has been at a minimum since the beginning of the crisis. Even the unions are excited. That doesn't happen every day. The result of our policy is exciting, even at Rudy De Leeuw of the ABVV. He notes with great satisfaction that jobs will be added in our country. That is why we cannot ignore the measures taken here over the last year and a half. The misguided index jump that was portrayed as an antisocial measure now leads to 2 500 people in our country having a job. The labour cost handicap, which has been there since 1996, has been removed by the measures taken by this government and the previous government. Our tax shift has released 150 million euros for shift and night work. EUR 80 million has been earmarked for high-tech activities. As you know, we will also reduce employers' contributions to 25%. We are not just doing this for large companies, Mr Calvo. It's good for the little ones too. Maggie De Block is implementing the golden employee's measure. The first employee can almost be assumed free of charge, which is particularly important for start-ups. There is therefore a certain satisfaction about the policy. We are now seeing the results of this. The opposition and the trade unions are schizophrenic in this respect. Last week we heard great statements about rulings against multinationals. They gave 200 %, even if they had been approved in the past, but today we see that everyone is on the barricades to applaud for the result of that story: more jobs, more work and in that way more social security. Minister, you have followed the negotiations with Audi, together with the Prime Minister and Minister Van Overtveldt. Were the measures taken by this government crucial to the package that is now in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lachaert, I believe that everyone in the hemisphere shares in the joy of Audi's decision to produce that electric Audi here in 2018. As with any positive news, I think there are a lot of fathers who can put a feather on their hat. I would like to stress once again that this is, of course, a matter of course, of the company itself. The management and also the people who work there deserve a big plume. I would also like to stress that the state governments have also contributed, both Brussels, Flanders and Wallonia. Finally, as in the case of positive news, I can add with great modesty that the federal level has also contributed to this. So they are many plumes on many hats. I think it is good for everyone that those 2 500 workers with the families associated with them now have certainty until 2025 and hopefully far afterwards. We have, of course, been lucky, if I may say so, that this government has taken a number of decisions that you have listed. It concerns the index gap, the tax shift, the fiscal measures taken by Mr Van Overtveldt and also measures taken by the state governments. We have made a complete package. I would like to emphasise that, when important investments are made, we all put our shoulders underneath, every government and every administration, including the municipality and the province, to convince investors to keep their important activities here. Mr Lachaert, I can only agree that we were just in time to convince Audi. I think we also need to convince many other companies to invest further. The company we are now mentioning is a multinational, but I assume that the measures will have the same effect for small and medium-sized enterprises. This does not have the same envergure of 2 500 workshops, but if all these small companies recruit employees, then I think we will achieve even higher figures. For small and medium-sized enterprises, too, this government, with the support of the majority in Parliament, has ensured that the economy can continue to grow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u13	Of course, Minister, I am very pleased with your answer. You're not surprised. Our group does, however, have one concern. In the coming months we will be entering a process of social elections, a pre-electric climate. Over the last year and a half we have supported the reform train together and pulled it together. Our group hopes that the pre-electoral climate will not stop the reform train. We must add another locomotive if necessary. You can count on our group that if the train stops, we will add a locomotive. The flexi jobs generate tens of thousands of jobs. Evaluate that system and see if it can be extended to other sectors in the future. Embrace the new work and change the working time regime. Hopefully, agreements with the social partners will be reached within the round table on workable work in the near future. We must not stop for the next five months. The reform train must move forward, it must not stop. You have our full support to move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u14	Mr President, Minister of the Interior, two months ago, specifically on 19 November 2015, the Prime Minister announced 18 measures to better combat terrorism. Since then, it's the flat calm! Most of these measures appear to be in limbo. In any case, very little has been done. What about the $400 million promised to our police, our intelligence, our defence? What about a whole series of measures that had been promised to combat foreign terror fighters? I quote a few: a Belgian NRP, the exclusion of hate preachers, the dismantling of unrecognized places of worship, the end of anonymity for prepaid cards, a Molenbeek plan, the strengthening of screening for access to sensitive jobs, etc. I understand that only two or three measures have actually been implemented. Worse still, we still do not have a date for the measures that could be implemented in the coming days, the coming weeks, the coming months. Moreover, Parliament's Terrorism Committee still has no real agenda on its agenda. While an essential discussion on article 12 of the Constitution is under way, there is still no programme or visibility of the work of the commission in question. Indeed, the chairman of this committee wishes to know clearly what the government's intentions are. Minister, what about these eighteen government measures? Today, it is announced that a level 5 of the threat could be created? What exactly is the situation? When will the government stop dragging on the fight against terrorism?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u15	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat what the previous speaker said. Indeed, more than two months ago, the Prime Minister here in the hemisphere reached out to Parliament, including the opposition. Cooperation across party boundaries of majority and opposition is necessary in order to be able to act quickly and efficiently against terrorism. Those were the words from back then. We are two months later and little concrete has happened. I note, no doubt, as you, Minister, that security services are on their gums, that intelligence services are in a happy state and that local and federal police forces are asking for additional support. After all, we still live with threat level 3. Amazingly, there is a lack of clarity as to how the government intends to deal with this. That is exactly where I am asking for clarity. Initially, my question was addressed to the Prime Minister, because I read in the newspaper that the most important measure, namely budgetary support of EUR 400 million, has not yet come into the house. I also read that the Prime Minister is waiting for an opinion from our committee. I would like to address the chairman of the committee: I read that the Prime Minister's cabinet is waiting for the opinion of the parliamentary committee to arrive at a distribution. Mr Minister, yesterday in committee we witnessed some nonchalance and disarray at the local level. After all, I heard fellow Members asking questions concerning the way in which the measures should have been applied for a long time. I just want to point out that we need order in the chaos. We are and remain prepared to take responsibility together. We really want to know what game we're playing in. Where and when will the government decide to support the various services? What do you think is the role of the committee in preparing it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u16	Mr President, Minister, for more than a year now, our country has been on alert. Several locations remain even at maximum level 4 alert. In other words, the security situation is to be considered serious and calls for concrete action. I think we all share the same view in this House, the majority as opposed. As far as the measures proposed by the government are concerned, that of means seems to us to be the most relevant, and we should not be here in advertising effects. It is important to be creative, to have ideas, to propose, for example, the creation of a level 5 threat, as you have expressed in the press. But, in concrete terms, what about the 400 million euros that are waiting? You said yesterday, in committee, that three months after the announcement of this sum, you have still not made a decision on their allocation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u17	Two months!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u18	Two months later, as you wish. Citizens, police, security officers and all those who fight terrorism on the ground need concrete answers on your part regarding the allocation of these means. Minister, in this amount, what is the share of structural expenditure and the share of expenditure one shot? What is the share of police and interior services? What is the share of justice services? Will any share be dedicated to Defence? What is the list of your projects? For these 400 million euros, beyond the announcement effect, do you have anything concrete to offer us?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your questions, because I think it is useful to give you the status of the various measures. As you know, the government has already approved some of the eighteen measures, which are currently under consideration by the Council of State. We therefore await his response. I am thinking of the NRP, a few bills from the Minister of Justice and the removal of the anonymity of prepaid cards. Next week, Kern will look into the other provisions. With regard to the EUR 400 million, we have requested projects from the various security services, both the federal police and the local police, the security of the state and the defence. Those projects have come in. They are currently being consulted by the Member responsible for the budget and the Finance Inspectorate. It is the government's intention to make a first package of allocations to these projects next week. Mrs Ben Hamou, you asked me about the distribution between structural and non-structural measures. Half of these will be structural measures and half will be non-structural measures. A slight difference could occur depending on the projects introduced, but the order of magnitude is 50/50. The distribution between the various services will depend on the decisions we make by the end of this month, depending on the projects that are currently on the government table. The same applies to the Molenbeek plan. This plan is ready, but we are waiting for budgetary decisions to be presented. This will also be done before the end of this month.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u20	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our feeling is that our police services are working, our intelligence services are working (arrests take place almost every day in Belgium) but that the government has been moving forward at a slow pace since the beginning of the legislature on this issue of terrorism. Two months is a long time, Minister! If tomorrow there was to be an attack in Belgium or elsewhere, in which Belgian nationals were involved either as perpetrators or as accomplices and our intelligence or police services would tell us that they still do not have the means promised to them, your responsibility would be grave, Minister. Today, we are living at a rate where a terrorist attack is committed every day in the world. It is time for the government to work faster, more efficiently and more closely with Parliament. It is not acceptable that the Terrorism Committee, which was set up with great reinforcements of communication two months ago, still does not have on its agenda a clear, comprehensive, strategic agenda on terrorism. It is important to provide early clarity on the work of this committee and on the relationship between Parliament and the government in the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u21	Minister, from your reply I conclude that the Prime Minister was mistaken when he said that an opinion was first needed from the anti-terrorism committee. Anyone can agree to that. It's good that the government rules and decides. Apparently, she'll be drawing the first chalk lines next Friday. The adoption of laws against terrorism will not stop any jihadist. We do need support in the field, but we also need responsibility at local level. I still see a lot of problems in terms of cooperation and data exchange. In the meantime, the dynamic database has also started an obstacle course. Cooperation is particularly needed at local level. There, risk groups and returners must be followed in a final manner. We have to invest in this, otherwise we will have problems again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u22	Minister, I am worried after hearing your answer. You're giving me a feeling of tinkering with something, when the situation is serious. The fight against terrorism, the safety of our citizens and the agents involved in this fight deserve much better than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u23	This week, Minister, you explained to the committee what the central tasks of the police should be, but also in the newspapers, various slopes appeared. I would like to dwell on one of those slopes which have been pushed forward, namely that chunkers will in future have to pay for the costs of signalling on the road. Minister, for your department this may mean savings. I read that you are thinking of passing on the cost of the signage via car insurance. In reality, this means that everyone's premium will be increased. It means a tax increase for everyone, including those who do not cause an accident. I would particularly like to draw attention to the young people. Young people often find it very difficult to get affordable car insurance today. I therefore believe that this proposal is not a good thing. What is the solution to this proposal, Minister? How can this be more efficient and faster after an accident? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u24	Thank you for your question, Mrs Kitir. It might be good to clarify things. As I have often said, and repeated in committee yesterday, the key tasks debate is not intended in any way as a saving mission. You say that the proposal you are now taking could lead to savings in my department. That's not true. The aim of the core task debate is to allow police officers to perform police tasks and possibly to have tasks that are not police tasks done by others. That is the essence of the key task debate: to use our policemen to carry out police tasks. As far as the specific case of the signage is concerned, nowhere has it been determined that this is the responsibility of the federal police. However, the road police are often the first on the scene, where, in order to secure the other services, they place the signal. This is a task that requires a lot of capacity. In the past, the Flemish Region has already experimented with the FAST project. That was a good project. We are now proposing that the same reasoning be followed as in the case of environmental pollution: the polluter pays. Here, too, the additional costs, as this is not a task of the federal police, must be paid by the cause of the accident. As the polluter pays, so does the causer. As far as insurance is concerned, I have not said anywhere that there will be compulsory insurance to ensure this. I can imagine that, if this risk exists, the insurance companies will make an optional offer so that people can insure themselves for this risk, not by obligation but by free will. That is an extension of the insurance package, which I think is a good thing. So I have never said that we are talking here about compulsory insurance, and I will also make sure that this does not happen, which would increase costs specifically for young people. It is about the same principle as the polluter pays, the cause of the accidents is going to pay for the costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u25	Minister, it is good that you want to think about the tasks of the police and how they can be carried out more efficiently and in a more practical way. I understand that. With regard to this proposal, I find it very difficult to understand how you ensure that the account is not forwarded to all citizens. Every driver can cause an accident one day and the insurance will try to cover everyone. In that case, if the risk exists, there is also a risk that the premium will increase. Minister, we all know the Flemish Government from the Turtel tax. I don't think the federal government is supposed to be known for the Jambontaks. I therefore hope that this will not continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u26	Mr President, Minister, the time has come for clarity and transparency in the Haren prison file. For months, we have repeatedly denounced the innumerable shortcomings in this case: the opacity of the total cost of this project – we are talking about several billion euros – the absence of a contract – there is no written document that binds the government, the Régie des Bâtiments and Cafasso, the private consortium responsible for building the prison – and the total darkness around the compensation clauses if the project does not finally see the light of day. You and your colleague, Mr Geens, have always bottled the countless questions that we have asked. Today, we learn that an investigation is under way at the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office into the award of this multi-billion euro public procurement. It deals with the manner in which this contract was awarded. The press even talks about alleged acts of corruption. You'll agree with me that it's very serious! This issue is truly turning into a Harengate for the whole government. There are three points on which I would like you to light up. Who filed a complaint with the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office? What is the nature of this complaint? Is this the procedure of the jury that decided to award this contract? Are these potential acts of corruption of officials of the Régie des Bâtiments or are they something else? Finally, as the responsible minister of the Régie des Bâtiments, what do you intend to do in this case, which accumulates errors, mismanagement and which, for us, must be stopped or reviewed from A to Z as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u27	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre, I have read the article in La Libre on the preliminary investigation into the conduct of the award procedure for the construction of the Haren prison. The Régie des Bâtiments confirmed that the police, on instructions from the prosecutor's office, were able to consult the file. The Régie offered its full cooperation and made the case available to the prosecution. The Régie des Bâtiments is not aware that individuals or elements would be targeted in this investigation. I would point out that this concerns only a preliminary investigation. We have no other information and we offer all our cooperation in this investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u28	Minister, thank you. I am pleased to hear you talk about openness and cooperation in this matter. This has been very little the case since the beginning. To follow up on the current complaint, I would like you to provide transparency on the existing agreements between the Régie des Bâtiments and the Cafasso consortium. I would like you to do the same for the costs involved for the whole project and for the compensation clauses that I mentioned in the introduction. Indeed, the major problem here is opacity. Today, as parliamentarians, and especially as opposition parliamentarians, we cannot do our work on this sensitive and priority issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u29	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union has enormous potential and could be the leading continent in the world, but today it is rather a giant on clay feet. We are dragging from crisis to crisis. I am thinking here of the banking crisis, the monetary crisis, followed by the debt crisis, and today it is all migration and asylum crisis. We know that construction errors have been made. We know, for example, that we have introduced the euro without a fiscal union or a budgetary union. We know that we have made the Schengen area possible and abolished internal borders and asked ourselves only afterwards what we would do with the defence and protection of the external borders. Today, from summit to summit and from JAI to JAI, dispersal plans are agreed again and again and ideas are put forward about better protection of the external borders, but they remain both one and the other dead letter. The situation of the European Union today is not encouraging if I bring forward a number of statements made in recent days. I am very concerned about that. Mr Timmermans, Vice-President of the European Commission, takes serious account of the failure of the European Union. Mr Tusk, the new European President, says that if the Member States refuse to implement the agreements, he cannot send tanks to oblige them to honour those agreements. I find that blood clotting and I don't really understand that. What is the President of Europe doing today to ensure that these agreements are effectively honoured? I think he's doing quiet diplomacy and honoring the principle of pour vivre heureux, vivons cachés. I do not see a dynamic President pulling the strings and trying to overcome the migration and asylum crisis with all the Member States. If we are to abandon Schengen, it is a disaster for the European economy, a cost that is calculated at EUR 3 billion. I cannot therefore accept that people speak of this lightly or lightly. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, there is a JAI at the end of this month and a European summit in February. Will Belgium once again take the lead and take the lead in securing these important achievements, which are so dear to us, and take advantage of this crisis to move forward again?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u30	Minister, I am pleased that my question is joined with that of the Open Vld Group Leader to discuss the future of Europe. His party never fails, by the voice of MEP Verhofstadt, to strongly condemn Poland. Unfortunately, yesterday in committee, Mr Dewael's group, like the majority as a whole, swept away the idea of such condemnation by our assembly and the government, as we proposed in our resolution. One wonders whether the membership of the N-VA in the same "eurodestructor" group as the ruling party in Poland or Cameron's one does not prevail over the federalist tradition of our country, which has played a founding role in European integration. I fear it, worse, I see it. However, as Mr Dewael said, the time has not come for half-measures if the European project, based on values of law and solidarity, is to survive the current crisis. I think, of course, of the liberticide laws that are being adopted in Hungary, Poland and Denmark; of the infringement of Schengen; of the building of walls; of Cameron's blackmail and of the intolerable words about refugees. Your government, for its part, sees opportunities or acts as if it had not seen anything in a burning news. Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Europe and this irreversible project deserve the opposite. Europe is not the problem; it must be the solution. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. How does Belgium stand with regard to the need to safeguard the rule of law in Poland? Why does this majority not want to follow us when we call for a condemnation of such violations of democratic values? Have you personally condemned these laws to your Polish counterpart? As far as Brexit is concerned, we know that the debate will come back to the next Council. What position will our country stand for? In terms of relaunching the European project, what courageous attitude will Belgium adopt to react to the blows of the "eurodestructors", some of which are within your government itself? I am sorry to see your opposition to the tax on financial transactions and to any social and recovery project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these are two separate questions. This is perhaps logical since the questions come from two different parties: on the one hand, and on the other. I will answer both questions. Mr Dewael, I am also sorry that we are hearing so many statements with only findings and no real will to continue to deepen the European Union in two areas, on the one hand the euro area for which this has been the case for several years and on the other hand the Schengen area. It is now very important to achieve real implementation of all decisions. Belgium will play its role in all councils. For Schengen, this means, for example, the correct resettlement of refugees in Europe. We have taken a decision on 160 000 refugees. So far, perhaps 300 refugees have been resettled. It is time for proper implementation of the decisions. The same applies to a genuine control of external borders. That's useful. It is no longer the time to establish that the European Commission is making a proposal in this area, but to put forward a proposal for a corps to take control of the external borders. The same reasoning applies to Turkey. We are prepared to help Turkey with proper reception of the refugees, but on condition that Turkey has a concrete commitment. It's time to say that. In the following weeks and months, Belgium will play its role. There might be an opportunity, like the Brexit meeting. What do we want to achieve? A real deepening of the European Union in several strong areas. This must be strengthened for the euro area, for Schengen and for the defence of the values of the European Union. Mr Crusnière, I am not going to comment on the procedures. However, what did Belgium do on these different points? I did not wait for a motion for a resolution. I had already answered a question here. I have received my Polish colleague and I have told him of our very clear objections to two pieces of legislation: one amending the Constitutional Court and the other concerning the press. We obviously support the procedure launched by the European Commission, but it is within this framework that this must happen. I have no objection to resolutions being voted on in all parliaments, but that is not how the procedure is going. It takes place between the Commission and Poland. In addition, I have requested, and I will continue to request that the General Affairs Council debate this matter. I would like this to be the case not only when there is a problem in Hungary or Poland, but every year on a report on rights in the 28 Member States. As I said here in plenary: there is no reason why respect for rights should be less controlled than respect for budgetary objectives. Belgium will play its role in all these areas: respect for rights, the deepening of Schengen with the strengthening of certain arrangements, the deepening of the euro area as well. Belgium has this tradition and will continue to do so. We have a role to play in strengthening the mechanisms within the European Union, the euro area, Schengen and in protecting the values of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u32	I have the impression that two separate debates have crossed somewhere today. I would like to thank the Minister for his rather voluntaristic answer to my question on the future of Schengen. It is of the utmost importance that clear wine be given in the context of the protection and defence of the external borders. On the one hand, Greece and Italy look forward to the enormous cost of all this, but on the other hand, they hesitate to give up some of their national sovereignty to the European Union. If these two countries cannot do it alone, then Europe must do it. They must agree that Europe should take its place. Mr Crusnière, you must not put the cart in front of the horses. At the moment, a resolution is not on the agenda because you know very well that the European Parliament has started a procedure on Poland. As you know, the European Commission has taken the lead in this matter. First of all, we want to wait for European decision-making before adopting resolutions in this and in all the other parliaments. I would remind you of the Greek situation. We saw inflation of all possible resolutions in all national parliaments. I am also looking at Mr Van der Maelen in this regard. If he had reserved the decibels he has developed here against our government over Greece for his comrades from PASOK, then perhaps the Greek people would have been less screwed up for a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u33	Minister, thank you for your answers. Indeed, we are further and further away from the ideal of peace, tolerance, and openness to the other who had presided over the construction of Europe. Unfortunately, we are witnessing a return to nationalism, a return to self-righteousness. This is reflected in the rise of populist and Eurosceptic parties in many European states. The question is simple. Will Belgium continue to defend the principle of creating an ever closer union between the peoples of Europe or will it give in to the singing of the Conservatives and the retreat on its own? We have had the opportunity to make a strong gesture towards what is happening in Poland. By this resolution, we called for a position by Parliament and the government. You will still have the opportunity to review your position, since this item is on the agenda. I hope we can count on your support for this strong gesture. In this context, do not be surprised that the citizens are turning away from the European project, because I fear you are contributing to its disenchantment and de facto evaporation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u34	Mr President, Minister, this Wednesday our country was applauded for the progress made in the field of human rights during the second session of the Universal Periodic Review in Geneva, which I welcome, as I certainly do you. However, I would like in particular to draw your attention to the recommendations made by Switzerland which called for the ratification by Belgium of the Council of Europe Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities. In response to these recommendations, the head of the Belgian delegation indicated that a working group had been set up to study the file. Allow me, Minister, to indicate the procedure to be followed. There is no reason to procrastinate, to postpone this question. Indeed, it is sufficient for the Interministerial Conference on Foreign Policy (ICPE) mentioned at the signing of Belgium on 31 July 2001 to endorse the opinion given by the European Commission for Democracy through Law, also known as the Venice Commission, at the request of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights of the Council of Europe, and to endorse, moreover, its resolution 1301 of 26 September 2002 following the report by Mrs Nabholz-Haidegger. Indeed, the Venice Commission had considered that Francophones living in the Dutch-speaking and German-speaking regions could be considered national minorities within the meaning of the Framework Convention, as were Dutch-speaking and German-speaking people living in the French-speaking regions. From a legal point of view, there has been no basis for bringing together experts at irregular intervals for the past 15 years. Minister, when do you intend to put this item on your government's agenda so that it can be submitted to our Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u35	Mr President, dear colleague, first of all I would like to thank you. Indeed, you noted that the universal periodic review of Belgium at the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva yesterday went very well. It should be noted that 104 countries have intervened with a very large number of congratulations on the development of the situation in Belgium, as I would like to say, at all levels of power. I also thanked the delegations at each of those levels who had accompanied me to Geneva to defend each of the decisions taken. Everything went remarkably well and I thank you, Madam, for seeing this fact, like all those who were present yesterday with me in Geneva. Having been noticed in this way is a good thing for our country. In addition, I have not waited for your question to put the subject you are referring to on the agenda. I will not repeat here the history of the Convention, nor the approach which allowed Belgium to sign, to embark on the path while not making ratification. A reservation had been deposited from the outset and provided that the definition of minorities should be formulated by the Interdepartmental Conference on Foreign Policy. On 6 July 2015, I therefore again asked, as under the previous legislature, the various entities to be able to recompose this working group which has been planned in Belgium for some time to organise the definition of minorities. Now, Mrs. Caprasse, you're going to be able to help me! It is not every day that I appeal to an opposition member to help me. But your political formation is present in a single government, the Brussels regional government. As you can see, since July, it is the only government that has not yet provided us with the names of the experts who will be participating in this working group. Could you then, in the hours, days, months, years that are coming – at the pace of your party's interest in this convention, if you wish to see the matter progress quickly – ensure that the Brussels government sends me the names of the two experts we asked for? Everyone has made this effort, both the Flemish Region and the Walloon Region. I think a small gesture from a party that seems very attached to this convention would be welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u36	Minister, I will go find the representatives of the Brussels Region. I have no problem with that. Nevertheless, the federal government is in the lead. It is the country's first entity and the federal government must act first. You no longer have any excuse to have this convention signed. There are only two countries that have not signed it, Greece and Iceland. There's something to be embarrassed about! Our country continues to teach other countries lessons. We must be the first to set an example. I think Mr. Thiéry will agree with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u37	No!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u38	Here! Because we're changing parties, we're changing our minds! Mr. Thiéry, I'm not following you anymore!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u39	Mr Reynders, I'm glad I've been redirected to you. As you know, since the beginning of the week, the World Economic Forum in Davos has been held, the purpose of which, as stated in the charter, is "to improve the state of the world". Two days before the start of the Forum, Oxfam released its latest annual report. This organization indicates that, for the first time in the history of humanity, 62 people own as much as 50 per cent of humanity. Sixty-two people possess as much as 50 percent of humanity. The wealth of these 62 people has increased by 1 trillion. The report states that in 2015 1% of the population owns as much as 99% of the total population. Oxfam thought this would happen in 2016. However, that fact did not happen in 2016, but in 2015. In 2015, for the first time in the history of humanity, 1% of the population owns as much as 99% of the rest of the world. This situation is untenable from a social, democratic and security point of view. In this context, Oxfam demonstrates that one of the fundamental problems is the existence of tax havens. These completely undermine the fiscal revenues that would allow States to pursue social policies. The tax havens have been identified by Oxfam as one of the causes of the problem of the budgets of the various countries. So my question is very simple, Mr Reynders. As you know, the PTB has just released the "Happy Birthday" – I take the opportunity to celebrate with you the tenth anniversary of notional interests. As Minister of Foreign Affairs, and even as designer of the measure, you have certainly celebrated this anniversary. We show that this measure cost the Belgian state budget EUR 40 billion through tax gifts. So my question is simple: what did Minister De Croo defend at the Davos World Economic Forum about the responsibility of tax havens? Do you think there is a need for upward harmonisation of this tax system? Davos would have been a special time to advocate for better corporate taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u40	Mr President, Mr Hedebouw, allow me to reply in French, since I knew you most of all in Liège. I am delighted that you have spoken in the first two national languages; you will still have to make a little effort to speak in German next time. In Davos, a very large number of economic and political leaders meet. For Belgium, the king and queen are in Davos, who will meet with the Secretary-General of the United Nations because the queen becomes a member of the group of defenders of sustainable development goals. I believe it is a great satisfaction for Belgium that we are going to play an active role in the United Nations in the area of sustainable development. The Minister-President of the Flemish Region and Deputy Prime Minister Alexander De Croo are also present in a Young Leaders Forum. I think that's a good thing. He also participated in a session on the refugee crisis in Syria and its neighbouring countries. It is a good thing to see this kind of debate develop. As far as what we can defend in Davos is concerned, notional interests are of course part of it. I have not especially celebrated their anniversary, but I welcome the economic decisions that are made every day thanks to this measure. There are the early ruling measures that we can provide to potential investors, but also reductions in workloads on teamwork and night work, reductions in burdens on researchers or patent-related royalties. There are still more recent measures taken under the tax shift. With regard to the effect of these measures, I note that companies that you often stigmatise invest in Belgium, such as Audi in Forest or AB Inbev in Jupille – a place you care about. So from time to time you could relay to the workers of these companies that it is through these measures and the initiatives we take, in Davos or elsewhere, that we obtain these investments and the maintenance or even the creation of jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u41	Minister, I can hear your answers. Unfortunately, the causal link between tax dumping as practised by Belgium and job creation has never been proven. Moreover, the report of the National Bank, as you know, indicates that the tax deduction for venture capital – for example notional interest – is of marginal importance for job creation. It's obvious when you see the different companies. For example, the financial subsidiary of Electrabel made a profit in Belgium of 33 million euros. How many taxes, do you think, has she paid in Belgium? One euro! One euro of tax, because it was able to deduct tax 38 million notional interest. And you will explain to me, Minister, that going abroad to defend this tax at a discount is the cause of job creation. Minister, you have not expressed your opinion on the causes of human and social imbalances in the world. I say here, Mr Minister, that in the face of such imbalances, if we are to avoid the dramatic situations that exist in the countries of the South, throughout the world, we must now rebalance global taxation. You will sell Belgium to Davos, sell notional interests, sell tax at a discount to lead down all European and global taxes and lead up only the profits of companies. I regret that, Mr Reynders, because there is a social debate: are we going to persist in a world where 1% of the richest people are becoming richer and richer or are we going to distribute the wealth of the world more equitably? It is the debate that is before us. I regret that our government continues to run into the wall in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u42	Mr. Secretary, another painful incident. Ms Nadine Ribot, Valentin Ribot's mother, one of the victims of the murderous attack of ISIS in the Bataclan in Paris, wants to sue the Belgian state for the murder of her son. It does so on the basis of negligence, negligence. I quote her: "Behind the failure of the Belgian government are families who have lost people." Very painful, but not unjust, if you ask me, especially when you come to the conclusion that five of the nine terrorists of the Paris attacks have either Belgian nationality, or live here, or have some kind of connection with Belgium. Perhaps the weapons were bought here and the plans were planned here, and so on. One can hardly blame that woman. My question to you is therefore quite obvious. How do you, as Minister of Justice, respond to this complaint? I do know that it is not yet clear what this complaint will look like in legal terms. Will it be a civil complaint in which one goes for compensation or will it be a criminal complaint? That is not yet known, and some lawyers may now be discussing it in Paris. The question is, how do you deal with complaints like this? After all, it can become more than one. I can imagine that other parents there would also be a case of "society" joining this complaint as a bourgeois party. How do you deal with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u43	Mr President, Mr Dewinter, thank you for this question. Of course, a first way of dealing with such a complaint is to express empathy with the mother who we can only express our condolences for the painful event in Paris and the death of her child. However, as far as the complaint itself is concerned, I do not have any knowledge at the moment, as do you. So I'm as far ahead as you are. I have no knowledge of a bourgeois-party complaint, nor of an ordinary civil claim before any of our courts. So if you're asking me how I'm going to deal with it, it's a little early because I don't know its contents. I would be inclined to look at the case on a case-by-case basis if it were individual actions. If they were collective actions as you say, I will, of course, look at them thoroughly. At any rate, I have no knowledge at this time of the facts or mistakes of Belgian researchers who would have caused the attacks in Paris or who would not have done so. So I have no choice but to wait, but my condolences are sincere.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u44	Minister, you are a civilized man and I appreciate your condolences. I fear that this is a little too little, because of course you are also Minister of Justice and have political responsibility, not only as Minister, but also for the collective of this government and indeed for the functioning of the Belgian State. This applies not only to your government today, but you are also responsible for the failure of our legal system, our police system, the government as such, and in length of years. Otherwise, these facts could not have taken place. So I am not fishing you as a person, let that be clearly stated, I am fishing the government as such. This complaint is again very painful, not only for the reputation of our country throughout this issue, but for everyone who has already come abroad as a resident of this country. I fear, Minister, that the appropriate conclusions must be drawn from this. At some point, the government will have to strike mea culpa and put its hand in its own bosom. She will have to do something more than offer compassion and will have to dare say: yes, our legal system has failed, yes, the government has made mistakes, yes, we are responsible for what happened in Paris.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u45	Minister, you are aware of the facts: illegal immigrants enter ports, cause damage, are involved in fighting in asylum centres or, worse still, sexual assaults and rapes in asylum centres. Recently, there was even an 11-year-old girl victim of it. Such facts are also increasing. Justice has to act. Everyone agrees on that. She prefers to act quickly. There must certainly not be any perception of impunity. This is also important for the Commissioner-General, who needs a conviction, in order to be able to dispose of the territory and even to lock up those involved in order to make matters easier. Minister, rapid action is essential, especially for the public's support. I therefore have three questions for you. Firstly, Minister, would you please make sure that justice, our prosecutors and our investigators do everything in their power to prosecute such facts? I am aware that directives have been issued, in which sex crimes are a priority. However, persecution must also happen effectively and preferably and above all quickly. Will you sit with the College of Attorney General to make that prosecution work effectively? Secondly, Minister, if you find that something is wrong and that the prosecution is not running smoothly or is simply not going to happen, will you use your right of positive entry? You have the cure. I know you don't like to use that right, no matter what I understand. After all, it is a motion of censure against the prosecution. If it is not necessary, you should certainly not use that right. However, Minister, if it is necessary, I would like you to confirm here that you are also using the means of positive entry law. Thirdly, Minister, this is very important when an investigation is under way, would you please, together with all the actors of justice, ensure that anyone suspected of such serious facts, such as the rape of an eleven-year-old, is not released just after questioning, but that he is detained, just like anyone who commits such acts? We have the means to do so, namely provisional detention. We also have legislation for this, which applies to everyone. I would very much like you to confirm that the necessary work is being done in this area. That is why I am counting on three times a full yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u46	Mrs De Wit, you really are a simple Member of Parliament. It is enough for me to answer yes, so that you may be satisfied. If life were just as easy, it wouldn't be that hard. You say, first of all, I have to watch closely. Yes, of course I'm watching very closely. Your Secretary of State and my honourable colleague Elke Sleurs has just produced a national action plan on gender-based violence. With the support of all the other relevant ministers, we have proposed this. As stated in my Attorney General's circular 2010/5, tackling sexual crimes is an absolute priority. We have also included this in our Integrated Security Framework Paper and the National Police Action Plan, which is shortly to be proposed. Mrs De Wit, however, we are doing so for everyone and equally, until further notice. We cannot do more or less with regard to asylum seekers than with regard to other citizens. Secondly, you asked me whether I would use the right of positive entry, a means given to me by law, which is used in very exceptional circumstances by the Minister of Justice, namely to order his Attorney General to order the King's Attorney to prosecute without possibility of dismissal. Of course, I will use that medicine when necessary. Do you think that's a sufficient answer? I assume so, because I gave it to you yesterday at the committee meeting, but I know you, you are a woman who can only be convinced repeatedly. [[Objection]] I mean a colleague who can only be convinced with repetition. I withdraw my word. Mrs De Wit, third, I have to make sure that people are not released. I do not want to say that it is a subject for humour, but we must sometimes be able to relate ourselves a little, if it is possible. Of course, I want to make sure that the provisional detention of those people is properly used, as is the case with all the other perpetrators. Of course, the evidence and identity of the perpetrator are not always so easy to deliver. However, I promise you, I hope that you will be at least happy with that. On 27 January, I will be consulting the Attorney General on whether, with due regard for equality, special measures could be imposed on asylum seekers. I stress the conditional wisdom. Mr President, I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u47	Minister, this simple woman thank you for your answer. I'm pleased with the signal you're sending. Still, the next thing has to be my heart. What benefits action plans, some benefits framework notes and some benefits guidelines setting out a priority, when facts such as the rape of an 11-year-old result in the suspect being released the day after? So what good is it that the priority is on paper? That's the concern. You understand that. We really need to give the signal that something is happening, that we are tackling the problem and that everyone is working together for that. Mr Minister, perhaps we should also have the courage to think about some sort of quick-track law. The existing fast-track law should be applied to all crimes. Especially for offences committed by illegal immigrants or asylum seekers, we should dare to think about using the right to speed up the process. What hooligans can do, Minister, must certainly be able to do in that context. This signal must be there: no impunity, these facts cannot be tolerated and our society and our justice are doing something about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u48	Mr Minister, my question fits in with the perverse war of interest which appears to be raging in the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium. That organ is a creation of the State, as everyone knows. It was founded in 1999 and should be a bridge between the Muslim community, the government and other communities. At that time, the Muslim executive was given important responsibilities, such as the recognition of imams and the appointment of Islam teachers, something we should not underestimate. In the meantime, friends and enemies agree, including you and I, Minister, that the body is not working properly. In 2015, the Muslim executive still received an operating budget of around EUR 400 000 and yet it appears that the body was unattainable for the majority of the Muslim community. More than that, internal mud is thrown at each other. There is therefore a need for reform. Yesterday Pandora's box opened completely. Apparently, a few Members are so conservative that they are trying to stop your and our reform, which aims to put the Muslim executive on a modern footing. Mr. Secretary, tomorrow you will invite the 17 members of the Muslim executive. You're calling them on the mat, I've read. You are a determined minister who likes to work with well-functioning bodies. It's a great opportunity to put the fist on the table, to say that it can't go on like this. What message do you take to the Muslim execution? Will you at last also work on a division of the executive into a Flemish and Walloon wing? When and how can we expect results?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u49	Minister, a few weeks ago, the Brussels Government announced a deradicalisation project in which Islam would be interpreted accurately and intelligibly through a modern interpretation. Unfortunately, this project has been terminated because of serious threats to people who participated in it. This is regrettable and significant that people who stand up for non-violent Islam are being opposed. Also within the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium, there would be a struggle between progressive members, who are open to this type of debate, and conservative members, who oppose various initiatives in this respect. Minister, you responded by demanding that the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium put things in order. You expect this body to accept its responsibility, I quote, to help create an Islam that is in line with European culture. That is also what the chairman and most members of the Muslim executive want. Ladies and gentlemen, the current state of affairs is, of course, deeply regrettable, especially in these times where the Muslim community should more than ever claim its place within our society and support such projects. For example, there is also the Belgian imam training programme. The Muslim executive must play a leading role in this, and address and tackle these issues in a professional way. I know, Minister, that you have held consultations with the members of the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium in recent weeks and months. I come to my questions. Firstly, what steps will you take to put things in order within the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium? Secondly, what measures will you take together with the Muslim executive to work on further professionalising and responding to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, paradoxically, I think that the Muslim executive is doing better today than in the last 15 years. However, that does not mean that she is well. Over the past 15 years, we have known little but great internal strife. That is less so today, but of course radicalisation and terrorism are doing a special sauce on all this. I have worked on three issues over the past fifteen months: responsive to the Muslim executive, contributing to deradicalisation and deradicalisation initiatives and better functioning of the executive. We have realised the following in the past year. Firstly, Islam consultants receive additional training. Secondly, besides a charter for imams, there is a charter for Islam consultants. Thirdly, we have an agreement in principle on a Belgian diploma requirement for the training of imams. Those are some of the elements I wanted to put to you. Last Wednesday, I met with the President and Vice-President of the Muslim Executive. There is a royal decision on the division into two sub-Councils, Flemish and French. I'm gonna put that up for consultation one last time on Friday. There is a royal decision on an internal regulation and also a distance from a number of procedures that have so far been carried out for the Council of State. The four radical members of the Muslim executive, which were mentioned in the press, will be present. I don't think they're responsible for that threat, but they're causing a lot of excitement and trouble. We will make the best of that and at the end of this month the royal decree will be signed by the King and myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u51	Minister, I am somewhat hopeful of your answer. I hope that it will prove sufficient and sufficient in the facts. I will continue to follow that story very critically, because if it does not change fundamentally, it will end badly. Today, Mr Yüksel has also mentioned that the innovators are threatened with death. It is so bad today that the key figures and the bridge builders throw the towel in the ring, after they were beaten half-knock-out by those who still want to push our society with their radical ideas. If the moderate Islam and those who mean it absolutely well and want to achieve an accessible and modern interpretation of the Qur'an are whistled back every time, it always seems much worse than swearing in the church.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am satisfied because you acknowledge the problem and are also working on it. This is evident from the overview you have given. This dossier, ladies and gentlemen, is not an easy one. Many of your predecessors, Minister, have bitten their teeth on it. That is why I hope and wish that you will succeed and that the Muslim executive will become a forceful, decisive and reliable organisation so that it can work on the challenges. The fact that you are dealing with this dossier in this way and that you, as a conciliator, are going into the field is brave. Colleagues, Minister, the Muslim community deserves better representation by professional people who know and act on their duties and tasks. It must really be over fighting in the Muslim execution. The population, and especially the Belgian Muslims, expect policy actions and results. I hope, with you, that the division into two lectures will contribute to this. Finally, the Muslim executive must also accept its responsibility in the fight against radicalism and extremism. It must also take very concrete steps to this end.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u53	Madam Secretary, on each pack of cigarettes is "Smoking is deadly," "Fumer tue" or "Rauchen ist tödlich" or "Rauchen ist tödlich" or "Rauchen ist tödlich" or "Rauchen ist tödlich" or "Rauchen ist tödlich" or "Rauchen ist tödlich" or "Rauchen ist tödlich" or "Rauchen ist tödlich" or "Rauchen ist tödlich" or "Rauchen ist There is therefore a consensus on this. This week, coalition partners CD&V and N-VA launched a smoking ban for -18 year olds. You don't think this is a priority. You used it to lure your coalition partners out of their quarters. It is also very hypocritical to launch this proposal in the media and, at the same time, to vote against the opposition's proposal for the neutral cigarette package in committee. Your party Open VLD and MR also voted against this proposal in committee. Don't get me wrong. I am not at all opposed to the measure of raising the age to 18 years. We all know that sixteen-year-olds are inventive enough to find cigarettes, even when there is a ban. More needs to be done. We need a comprehensive package of measures if we are to avoid young people starting smoking. Insulated measures have absolutely no result. Will you quickly adopt a package of cigarette measures that go beyond just warnings on the package? Will you provide follow-up and control before 20 May 2016? In short, does Dr. Maggie want to move?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u54	Mr President, Madam Minister, 20,000 premature deaths a year, the first cause of cancer: it is obviously time to take another step in the fight against tobacco. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, just ten months ago, we were discussing it in plenary and all the parties in the majority rejected my proposal for a law on the introduction of a neutral package of cigarettes. Worse, at this point, you all argued that the studies, which were scientifically implacable, were not worth much. Your office, the minister, has come to deliver the same speech. I now hear that the CD&V has changed its mind. Els Van Hoof and Nathalie Muylle have actually come out in favour of the neutral package, the radical increase in the price of tobacco or the complete ban on advertising. Well, we agree on these various points and I welcome them. I hope that this will not only be a communication effect. However, Minister, your responsibility is now in place. The question is very simple. Will you take advantage of the pressure exerted by one of your colleagues in the majority to now take ambitious action and take new steps in the fight against tobacco? If so, we will fully support you! I hope we can count on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u55	Madam Minister, you are aware of my concern about medicines such as tobacco and also alcohol and its impact on the future health of young people and children. It keeps me awake sometimes. Very often when we ask you questions about this, you say that this is not a priority, that Europe's directives must first be transposed. However, you are well aware, Madam Minister, that Europe's directives are a minimum. We can and should do much more. Studies and experts point to measures that we can take, but you do not go into them. In civil society and the population, there is enormous support, greater than ever before. Then I wonder what you're waiting for. Even the tobacco industry is now putting forward measures. What are you waiting for, Madam Secretary? A large number of countries in and outside Europe prove the effectiveness of a number of measures. What are you waiting for? I have a short and simple question. We can make a huge profit both in terms of people's health and in terms of health insurance if we take action today against tobacco consumption, especially tobacco consumption among children and young people. Madam Secretary, what the hell are you waiting for?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u56	Mrs Dedry, Mrs Fonck, Mrs Jiroflée, of course we are working on an anti-tobacco policy, because everyone knows that smoking is harmful to health. Of course we are working on the transposition of the European directive. This week's proposals, which are not new, are also included in the debate. However, I have always said that the aim is to come up with a package of measures which have been developed, which are socially acceptable and on which there is agreement in the government. For that, there must be contacts with the members of the government. You know that there is really nothing about this in the coalition agreement. What did happen in the meantime? I've gotten to know the social support from a completely different angle. Excise duties have been considerably increased: 10% on rolling tobacco. According to the World Health Organisation, the price should increase by 10% in order to reduce consumption by 4%. There is an increase in the price of 2% on cigarettes. We have taken further measures, and the second attempt to get rid of Champix is now being repaid. We've paid more visits to tobacco scientists. In addition, the Royal Decree on Electronic Cigarettes was finalized following the opinion of the Higher Health Council. According to the Supreme Health Council, an electronic cigarette fits into a distress policy, but it should never give rise to a start and then switch to cigarettes. The royal decree is coming. In any case, I am continuing to work on a policy, including on the supply of tobacco. However, I do not participate in the launch of balloons or in flame politics. I'm not running a flare policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u57	Madam Secretary, I hear one positive point. You agree with me that it should be a package of measures. However, you can do much more than what will happen when the regulation is transposed. A few small measures about advertising? Not enough, as far as I'm concerned, no advertising at all. No obvious delay behind the counter is one of the many possibilities you have not yet discussed. You're talking about an increase in excise duty. That is very minimal, that should be even more drastic. In particular, more resources are needed for the control services for tobacco and alcohol, as is the case with alcohol. Madam Secretary, I hear your good will, so get to work and don't wait until 20 May 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u58	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, I don't know who you were aiming at by talking about test balloons. I hope he wasn't your government CD&V colleague. In any case, various bills have been tabled, some of which have been in place for many months. Nothing would prevent us here in Parliament from starting work, discussing and moving forward. You, Madam Minister, are continuing to fall behind the transposition of the European directive. As you know, this European directive is an archi-minimalist. In addition, it was decided at European level not to decide on a whole series of issues and to refer those decisions to the Member States. It is therefore up to Belgium to make ambitious decisions on the subject! Of course, the cigar industry disagrees. But ma'am, you're not the minister of cigars! You're the Minister of Health. It's about the lives of thousands of people. It is to them and to them alone that you must think. They alone must guide your policy and that of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u59	Madam Secretary, I had just forgotten something in my list. As Mrs Fonck and Mrs Dedry have already said, your coalition partners also seem to want to move faster now. After having voted out a measure ten months ago, they are now proposing the same measure again. Madam Secretary, with all due respect to the list you give, you are going too slowly. Since your coalition partners do want to do so, I suggest that if you wait, this Parliament does very quickly what it was elected to do, namely adopt legislative proposals that will help this matter forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u60	Mr Minister, this majority is sensitive to SMEs, which are one of the driving forces and one of the engines of our economy. They are also a source of dynamism, innovation and job creation. This majority has taken substantial initiatives to support the self-employed, but also to boost the competitiveness of our SMEs. We will have a few of them: the reduction in wage costs, the increase in the deductibility of investments, the measures taken for disadvantaged self-employed people, flexi-jobs, the policy of administrative simplification and, finally, all the provisions which are in the process of coming into force and which are currently included in the plan for the forty measures in favour of SMEs. The government shows that it wants to help our businesses, and that seems to be the case. In fact, the press recently reported that the collection of the contributions of the self-employed was increasing sharply last year, reaching an amount of some four billion – in other words, 252 million more than in 2014. It should also be noted that there has been a decrease in the number of exemptions from contributions – from over 27,000 to 15,000 – and an increase in the number of self-employed. In short, all this indicates that confidence is regained and that the measures taken by the government are bearing fruit. Minister, how do you expect to get rid of this amount of €252 million for the self-employed? Furthermore, what do you think of the size of this amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you have referred to the figures on the collection of self-employed contributions, which have changed by 2.7%, as well as the significant decrease in recourse to the exemption committee – 11,000 fewer applications in one year. These figures must be analysed in the light of different elements. First, it is a sign of renewed confidence. This is an indicator that succeeds many others and confirms that elements of economic recovery, elements of confidence, as you mention them, are there and that independents and SMEs play a central role in this economic redeployment. Secondly, this year 2015 was the year of the reform of the system for the collection of social contributions by the self-employed. It must therefore be concluded that this adaptation has been widely and positively appreciated by the independents concerned. Thirdly, the question arises of the evolution and evaluation of this reform of the system for collecting social contributions from the self-employed, which we are undertaking together with the monitoring committee which was set up to do so. Finally, there is also the question of the use of these sums. These will, in my view, be intended to finance a number of measures already adopted or additional measures in favour of the self-employed, which we shall mention in the following question: provisions relating to women's entrepreneurship, provisions relating in particular to the improvement of the pensions of the self-employed, the implementation of the bridge law for those who change their activity, the student entrepreneurship. Either, a whole series of measures that will still allow our independents to deploy their activities. Of course, we will discuss it together, both in government and in parliament and with representative structures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u62	Minister, thank you for all these answers. They confirm the interest shown by our government, our majority for the self-employed, SMEs, and there is no doubt that by making this happen, the self-employed and SMEs will still be engaged. One of the government's goals is to create more and more jobs. We can assure you, Minister, that the Reform Movement fully and fully supports your reforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u63	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, self-employed people are also entitled to a family. The combination of a family with its own business is, however, all the more pragmatizing for them than for many employees. I do not want to limit this problem as far as employees are concerned, but for the self-employed the combination of work and family certainly requires a great deal of effort. For many self-employed people their business is also a child; they cannot let go of it and do everything for it, that is their passion, their daily activity. Even though female self-employed workers have maternity leave, they would still like to work and they do so part-time. Therefore, workable work for the self-employed, and in particular for female entrepreneurs, should be a priority. Not only for themselves, it turns out that they want to make it an absolute priority, but for all of us and also for you, as Minister for SMEs and the self-employed. This afternoon, Unizo launched the results of the survey of its members on a number of questions relating to the social status of self-employed workers. Three important observations emerge from this. Firstly, almost eight out of ten self-employed people want longer maternity leave for self-employed mothers who wish to do so and who can do so. As you know, for the time being, maternity rest for self-employed workers is limited to a maximum of eight weeks and there is a great feeling of injustice in relation to maternity rest for workers. Secondly, more than half of the self-employed want to work during maternity rest, and thus also during a possible longer maternity rest. We are asking for the possibility of not being punalized during maternity rest and of being able to work part-time in the meantime. Thirdly, self-employed workers, but not only self-employed workers, also many employees, would benefit from the use of family support to improve the combination between work or a business of their own and the family. In this context, in September 2015, I tabled a legislative proposal to create the family support statute, and I would like you to take part in this. Minister, will you have an evaluation carried out by the Self-employed Management Committee on the current arrangements for maternity rest? Will you effectively work on the revision of the social status of self-employed workers in order to bring about adjustments that meet the relevant demand for increased maternity leave? Will you support my family support bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u64	Mr Minister, I am pleased to discuss with you a subject which, within the Ecolo-Groen Group, is of particular interest to us. It is about the situation and the future of the independents and entrepreneurs in our country. These are often forgotten by policies supporting SMEs, TPEs and self-employed people. They are singularly forgotten in your policy, since until the end of last year your general policy note contained only a few lines on women's entrepreneurship. A few weeks ago, you announced a plan with specific points. One important aspect seems to us to be missing: maternity leave. Motherhood has an important effect on the entrepreneurial projects of our fellow citizens. This leads me to ask you the following two questions. Do you have any plans to reform maternity leave for the self-employed, and in particular the extension of this leave, since we know that it is now eight weeks when, for the employees, it is fifteen weeks? In addition to the length of maternity leave, do you have any support measures during this leave? Temporary support commitments are known to be important for maintaining a store, a business, and for carrying out administrative tasks. It is important that the activity continues. What measures do you intend to take to support self-employed on maternity leave?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u65	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, Mr Vanden Burre, access to female entrepreneurship is indeed one of my priorities for the current legislature. My SME plan also stipulates that the government will encourage female entrepreneurship, in line with the European Commission's Entrepreneurship 2020 Action Plan. In this context, my cabinet is currently consulting self-employed organisations and women entrepreneurs to better define their expectations and the difficulties and challenges they face on a daily basis in their relationship between work and private life. It goes without saying that I also consult the General Management Committee. Some provisions are under consideration. They concern maternity leave, its length, its modalities, the possibility of reconciling, while being partially on maternity leave, a partial occupational activity. They also aim to simplify existing arrangements, in particular in the form of service vouchers. They also consist of listening to all the proposals and provisions intended to support the possibility of reconciling work and personal situation, family situation. I've got some numbers for you. In 2014, we had 1,015 million self-employed people: 65.6% of them were men and 34.4% were women. As far as start-ups and start-ups are concerned, we still had, in 2014, just over 97,000 start-ups. Of these, 60.2 per cent are male, while 39.8 per cent are female. Over the past five years, there has been an increasing trend in women's representation. But this increase is modest, by just over 1%. On the other hand, I intend not to limit myself to the provisions that deal with and legitimately relate to the reconciliation between private and professional life, but to propose a set of measures that concern the elements that make women's entrepreneurship less developed today than it should be. Indeed, we should give strong signs and decide on a number of concrete, rapid and precise measures. In a few days, I will be able to share all this with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u66	Minister, I am pleased that, in addition to the many initiatives in the SME plan and a number of actions that you have already undertaken to improve the social status of the self-employed, you are now proposing a package of measures aimed at better reconciling work and family life, especially for women entrepreneurs, but at extending it to all entrepreneurs and self-employed people. However, the time of the figures and determinations is over. In the meantime, we know enough about the number of women who are self-employed and what the right problems and findings are. I hope that we will now be able to take action very quickly on the measures and that we can quickly respond to the legitimate demand for a review of maternity rest, which I fully support. It is, after all, partly outdated in view of the wishes that exist today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u67	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answers. Of course, we will follow with great interest the provisions that you are going to present and we will not fail to criticise them in a constructive way. Having said that, I regret that you did not mention paternity leave. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to invite you to move forward on a first step that is dear to us. Spouses, husbands, men and partners also have a role to play in accompaniment to their independent companion. In this context, extending paternity leave would certainly be an excellent thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u68	Mr President, this last question may be a little less percussive, but it is very important. Madam Secretary of State, I am going to ask you a question about what can be called a certain failure of PS policy in Brussels. I'm not going to be very biting today, because I have a tooth rage, but I still wanted to remind him. We'll see how far we'll get earlier. I still wanted to point it out because the sad...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u69	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u70	That's right! With many socialist ministers who have done nothing. I have Mr. Magnette's quotes with me, and I'll remind you of them. It is a rather long saga, Madam Secretary of State, as you know, since it has been five years since this Museum of Modern Art in Brussels closed its doors. Five years that this European capital, this tourist capital, this very open capital has no Museum of Modern Art! Several socialist ministers followed each other. I am not going to repeat our excellent colleague Mr Courard, but I can't help but quote Mr Magnette's words. Just a little quote. Mr Magnette, Minister for Scientific Research, responsible for this matter, said: "We must stop flirting." The services of the Senate have resumed this in quotation marks, for lack of translation possible. It's not "fouling," but "fouling" It was so hard to translate. It was also probably a way for Mr. Magnette not to say what he was going to do. You have to be honest. He said, "Leave me a year and I will give an answer to this case." We are in 2016, five years later, Madam Secretary of State. As you know, this museum has closed its doors. It is therefore no longer possible for students in the plastic arts, art history researchers or citizens, who have contributed to the purchase of these works through their taxes, to see them. They're hidden in cellars and we don't know why. There was also a whole saga about how to reorganize all of these museums. You announced a plan and you were going to take your responsibilities. This is a significant investment in cultural matters that the Michel government would make. I would like to hear from you and to have details on the cost, the project as you are going to develop it and the deadlines.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u71	Mr. President, Mr. Miller, as you know, I care about this issue. You also know that there is a difference of opinion between the Director General and myself. He alone made the decision to close the Museum of Modern Art. Many projects have been launched since then without the collection of Modern Art reappearing. What is the current situation? I believe that the collections of the Museum of Fine Arts should be displayed to the public, preferably in their entirety. This implies the reintegration of collections within the Museum of Fine Arts. Two other known leads have been abandoned. Neither building met the requirements for use as a museum space. It would be unjustifiable to invest public money in something that is not suitable for such a prestigious collection. The reintegration into the Museum of Fine Arts is being studied. This shows that at least 3,000 m2 are available in extensions. Their commissioning requires a general refurbishment and the provisional cost would amount to approximately EUR 10 million. I am looking for this budget and I intend to involve all the parties involved in this research. The negotiations are under way, but I hope to reach a result soon. I'll be able to give you a schedule once this step has been taken. I would also like to point out that the needs are high in all federal scientific institutions. As the head of ten institutions, I want to avoid at any cost the reopening of collections to the detriment of other collections.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u72	Madam Secretary of State, thank you. I am pleased to hear that you confirm this will, that you confirm the government's willingness to make the Museum of Modern Art available to the public. The previous Conservative, Mr.Robert Jones – we will not criticize his policy so much as it represents an important figure – had always said that it was a mistake to close this museum. I am very pleased that, through your action, Mrs Sleurs, the Michel government is providing an answer for Brussels and for this museum.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u73	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u74	Draft legislation tabled by: Bills tabled by: - 1231: Valerie Van Peel, Renate Hufkens, Yoleen Van Camp, Jan Vercammen, Nathalie Muylle Catherine Fonck. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two legislative proposals. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u75	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u76	Mr President, before I turn to my written report, I would nevertheless like to point out that the majority and the opposition have worked in an extremely positive atmosphere in committee. That is an important point to stress.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are times, even in Parliament, when all the pieces after years of searching suddenly fall into place. This was also the case with the draft law before us today. Several legislative sessions have been discussed and debated, but it has taken until now for a majority, and even unanimity, to be found in the committee. I would like to thank the fellow Members of the Committee on Health for that. What is this bill about? I will not go into any technical explanation. The bottom line is that so far patients with haemochromatosis, iron overload disease who had to undergo therapeutic vein drains have not had the right to donate that blood to the Red Cross afterwards, although there are no medical risks involved and it is allowed in most neighbouring countries. International research at 35 blood transfusion centres in 33 countries shows that 23 of these centres already allow donors with haemochromatosis today. The Red Cross has also been in favour of a legislative change in this area for a long time. People with hereditary haemochromatosis can accumulate iron in their bodies due to a defective gene, which can lead to a toxic iron content. Clinical haemochromatosis may develop in individuals with a homozygous mutation of the HFE gene. The treatment consists of regular bleedings. These are indicated when establishing increased iron values. Due to the veins, the iron levels in the blood and organs normalize again. The first intensive treatment phase, the so-called induction phase, consists of weekly or biweekly bleedings. Then there is a kind of maintenance phase in which two to eight veins per year are sufficient. It is estimated that some 60 000 people in our country suffer from hereditary haemochromatosis, of which 1 500 or more are now undergoing blood donations as treatment. In the remaining subjects, the mutation is either undiagnosed, there are no abnormal ferritin levels or there is no increased risk of symptomatic iron overload. Moreover, for those who have been diagnosed with genetic engineering but do not require therapeutic blood donations, there are no special conditions for their acceptance as a blood donor. The current blood donors certainly include undiagnosed persons with haemochromatosis. In addition, there are no evidence-based arguments at all to assess individuals with hereditary haemochromatosis in a different way from other individuals as donors of blood and blood derivatives. The blood contains either more iron or more iron in the initial period of treatment, it is also completely normal. Therefore, once the patients are in the maintenance phase of their treatment, their blood is also perfectly useful for donating. Of course, the same precautions remain in place. Since the blood itself is not dangerous, what was the problem? The underlying problem has been on the ethical front for a long time. There was the ethical discussion or the donation of blood that was tapped for therapeutic reasons, but fulfilled the altruistic principle as prescribed by the Law of 5 July 1994. The first paragraph of Article 5 of that law clarifies the altruistic principle of blood donation as follows: "The removal of blood and blood derivatives may only take place with voluntary, unpaid donors and with their consent." The High Health Council also gave a negative opinion on this subject, mainly on the basis of that article. However, the donation of blood after a therapeutic veining, as far as we are concerned, does not go beyond the principle at all. It is not because the decline in itself has no altruistic motives, that the choice to donate afterwards or not can have no altruistic motive. We are therefore making that choice possible for the patient with this legislative proposal. He can then choose between either donating his blood afterwards, or having it destroyed as medical waste, as is happening today. To ensure that the blood does not pose any medical risk, donation can only be made in the maintenance phase and under the supervision of the doctor who supervises and succeeds the patient. This will ensure that safety is adequately ensured according to all experts. This also proves the way things are going in most European countries. As far as we are concerned, the amendment of the law is not only logical and in line with the spirit of the current law, it is also much needed. Despite awareness campaigns on good blood use, a good match of blood donations to the needs of blood and blood derivatives remains a challenge. Every day hundreds of patients need blood, plasma or platelets due to childbirth, illness, accident or surgery. Any blood bag can save lives. That's what the Red Cross says. Each year there is also a loss of donors in blood transfusion centres, either because donors have reached the age limit or because one of the contraindications for blood donation occurs. In 2014, the stock stock decreased well below 20% of the optimal value for several weeks. Last year, too, the Red Cross raised the alarm several times, recently. In the more than 1,500 patients with hereditary haemochromatosis under treatment, as mentioned above, two to six veins and therefore potential blood donations per year are performed. To date, at least 6 000 donor blood bags with haemochromatosis have been disposed of and processed as biological waste. We cannot ethically defend the disposal of useful and healthy blood at a time when deficits are still occurring. Many patients also consider it an incomprehensible waste when their blood is thrown away. They are strongly motivated to donate. Donors with haemochromatosis are very willing, regular and loyal blood donors, which enhances transfusion security. With the bill we allow for deviations on the frequency of donation, from four times a year to six times a year, provided that the legal minimum two-month donation interval is maintained. The number of extra bags for the Red Cross may be much higher than what I mentioned earlier. In summary, with the legislative proposal, we want to assess persons with hereditary haemochromatosis according to the same criteria as other potential donors according to their suitability as donors of blood and blood derivatives and also recognize the altruistic nature of their donation. The amendment applies to asymptomatic carriers of the HIV mutation and persons suffering from hereditary haemochromatosis as soon as they are in a maintenance phase. In the previous legislature, the Senate adopted a resolution in which the senators expressed the will to tackle the problem. Today I like to approve the law that makes that possible with you. On behalf of all the patients who have felt for years that they can help others with their blood, but have not been given the opportunity, on behalf of the Red Cross, to use all the extra pennies in that area and on behalf of all the additional patients who can be helped in the future, I thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has just been pointed out, allowing people with haemochromatosis to give blood is a long-standing and widely debated issue. I will not go into detail on this issue since my colleague has already done so. For the PS group, the donation of unselfish blood and the objective testing of contraindications are, of course, fundamental guarantees for the safety of blood transfusion. The Higher Council of Health was already considering this issue in 2013. Considering that transfusion in patients who had received bleeding deserved consideration both ethically and epidemiologically, he considered it necessary to apply the precautionary principle, a precautionary principle which he reiterated in a written opinion recently transmitted to the Committee on Public Health. In view of the exchanges and opinions we have had on the subject, and despite the caution shown by the Higher Council of Health, we have decided, like all our colleagues, to support this text. We thus wished to be fully constructive, taking into account all the elements presented to us. Today, while we are talking about the exclusion of blood donation, we hope, even if we know that the problems are not connected, that the Committee on Public Health and the whole of our House will be able to pay the same attention, to have the same thought, when we will very soon, I hope, address the issue of people excluded from the blood donation because of their sexual orientation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will be relatively brief, although it is of some importance. My group and I will support the proposal put forward by Mrs Van Peel, whose presentation in the rostrum has been sufficiently substantial. As far as we are concerned, we have taken into account some elements. We have seen a real willingness to put an end to a certain waste while the donation of blood is precious and allows the medical profession to save lives. It is well known that blood donation shortages occur on a regular basis. It would have been a shame to deprive ourselves of additional donors. There was a desire to put an end to a situation that hemochromatotic patients were living as stigmatizing, and to move things. We had access to the report of the Higher Council of Health, which was a little less enthusiastic than that of the Red Cross. The Red Cross is also an extremely reliable partner in blood policy and blood derivatives. As careful as the Supreme Council of Health has been in the position it has reaffirmed, so much we can take the opinion of the Red Cross into account and be certain of what it asserts. The latter meant that precise supervision was needed to support patients with haemochromatosis. She had the will to allow them to donate blood. The committee was unanimous. As rapporteur, I would like to highlight the very positive atmosphere of the debates. These will allow us to vote in a unanimous way, I think, on Mrs Van Peel's proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u80	Mr President, on behalf of my group, I can say that we fully support this proposal, which we have also signed. I would also like to thank all the members of the Committee on Health and in particular Mrs Van Peel and Mrs Fonck. The proposal is a demonstration of how MEPs can work together across party boundaries in a dossier. We have looked at the substantive aspects, regardless of the comments made by various advisory bodies. We have adapted texts and I believe that we have reached a good decision in the interests of the patient. In this dossier, two elements were of fundamental importance to us. First of all, safety. In any way, the safety was to be guaranteed, both for the patient and the patient, more even for the container or recipient of blood. Secondly, the whole discussion about altruism, which should not become a stumbling block in giving blood. We had to make sure that people who are willing to donate blood could do the same. Some of my colleagues at local level suffer from haemochromatosis. They must always experience how their blood is destroyed, although it can be donated safely. That is now being arranged, so the cape of altruism, by giving up voluntary service, is also regulated in a maintenance phase. To this end, we have partly ignored certain opinions and have examined what is the best solution in the interests of the patient. We therefore welcome the proposal. Once again, this proposal is a demonstration of good cooperation across party boundaries in order to achieve good legislation. I would like to thank the committee members for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has been pointed out on several occasions, the examination of this proposal has allowed for collective work in committee. It has also made it possible to refresh and update certain opinions requested in order to meet the request of these people with hemochromatosis to be able to make blood donations in view of the needs that exist today. In the first few minutes, the Commission considered that the donations of these individuals were free of charge. There is no interest in these people, even if they have to bleed regularly. It is clear that they are in the process of giving, when they feel that this blood must be given to those who need it. Health and safety issues remained. Transfusion centres indicated that if certain types of haemochromatosis were limited, if specific conditions were applied (conditions known to the transfusion centres) and if the work was done in consultation with the centre's physicians and the general practitioners or specialists who follow them, there were safeguards to ensure that these individuals could perform this function. Ecolo-Groen also supported this proposal. I would find it interesting that the Higher Council of Health could continue its reflection on the subject. He told us to recognize altruism, which was not evident in his earlier opinion. I don't feel like he's reopened the thought. He reiterated his findings in terms of health questioning of his 2013 report. It seems to me necessary to extend and update this reflection. Finally, I agree with the concerns of some of the speakers. We have taken a step forward in the case of people with haemochromatosis. As we have asked the minister in committee, this extension must continue to apply to homosexuals who are, for the time being, excluded from these donations because they are considered to be the only ones who are at risk. Questioning must be directed differently, so that a broad public can participate in this magnificent gesture of blood donation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u82	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as many things have already been said, I will just highlight a few points that matter to us. Of course, we will support this proposal. I had probably dropped off a little more complete. As Mr Thiéry and others have pointed out, this has allowed us – majority and opposition – to amend Mrs Van Peel's text with an amendment. Genetic hemochromatosis is generally considered a rare disease. But it is not so much because one in three hundred people in Belgium is concerned. It is important that this blood is not wasted when therapeutic bleeding is performed on patients with genetic haemochromatosis. The news shows this, since the Red Cross launched a call for blood donations two or three days ago due to shortages in groups A and O. On the other hand, we must be very vigilant both for the patient suffering from this evil – and I thank my colleagues in this regard for agreeing to the close involvement of caregivers – and for the recipient of the blood donation. In addition, all other contraindications must remain full and complete. It should only be a patient suffering from genetic haemochromatosis, without any other disease and not carrying a virus. This text is a positive step forward. Ladies and gentlemen, since this blood, which is obviously vital for patients, saves lives, I would like to take this opportunity to greet the many citizens who, in a totally disinterested way, regularly give their blood, as well as the work done by the Red Cross, which is doing it on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u83	Mr President, I would like to thank Members for tabling the draft law on haemochromatosis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u84	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u85	The discussion was indeed over, but I asked for the floor, Mr Bonte. I'm being polite. You know that, I'm upset. It is extremely important that the health status of donors is monitored afterwards, that contact is maintained and that close cooperation remains with the general practitioner or specialist concerned. In other words, the legal basis that will now be approved will still have to be implemented, according to the principles of evidence-based medicine, a guide that has been chiseled in stone for me. That will be the case now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u86	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u87	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1231/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1231/6) The title in Dutch was changed by the Committee in "legislative proposal amending the Law of 5 July 1994 on blood and blood derivatives of human origin as regards the recognition of the altruistic character of blood donation by persons with haemochromatosis." The title in Dutch has been changed by the committee in "wetsvoorstel amending the Law of 5 July 1994 on blood and blood derivatives of human origin as regards the recognition of the altruistic character of blood donation by persons with haemochromatosis." The draft law contains 5 articles. The bill has five articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u88	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u89	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Sophie De Wit, Sarah Smeyers, Goedele Uyttersprot, Conseil Degroote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u90	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The reporters are Mr Terwingen and Mrs Van Cauter. They shall refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that this legislative proposal can be voted on today. This bill is a further step towards a more modern and efficient Justice and aims to provide a legal basis to enable the publication by videoconference at the pre-trial detention stage. Currently, dozens of suspects are picked up daily from prison to appear before a judge. These transports require a great deal of capacity from the police or from the security corps. The officers or members of the security corps must always be with a man more than the suspects, which is expensive and time-consuming when transferring groups of prisoners. The security corps is therefore constantly retrieving prisoners from prison, bringing arrested persons to the right courtroom through corridors and lifts, and arranging for the transport of suspects back to the penitentiary institutions. As a result, these agents are no longer available for patrols or preventive supervision in the courthouses. However, it is essential for the safety of magistrates, clerks, lawyers and citizens that security officers be allowed to patrol the courtrooms and corridors. Moreover, the many movements of prisoners also pose an increased risk of escapes. In addition to the high costs, the daily transports of prisoners also pose a serious security risk. This bill is intended to provide a solution to this problem at the pre-trial detention stage and hopefully we will be able to go a step further in the future and extend it to the whole procedure. In the Netherlands, the videoconference has been available for ten years in the entire legal proceedings. This has been possible in Italy since 1998. In other countries, such as France, Northern Ireland, Scotland, Switzerland, Canada and Australia, the video conference is also used in criminal matters. Moreover, the idea of using the videoconferencing during the pre-trial phase is not new in Belgium either. A pilot project was already launched in Charleroi and Leuven in November 2012, in which suspects appeared via videoconference before the investigating judge, subject to their consent. Special cameras followed by speakers, microphones and monitors were used for this project. One could also forward documents by placing them under a scanner or visualizing them in the eyes of the suspect. However, on 10 April 2013, the Board of Appeal of Bergen considered that this technique was unlawful because the provisional detention law only provided for the personal appearance and appearance by a lawyer. The pilot project was therefore terminated after four months of operation. The bill is just responding to the lack of legal basis for the use of videoconferencing. The choice to appear via videoconference is left in the bill only to the council chamber or the chamber of indictment and not to the inmate himself. In our view, an independent judge is best placed to decide on the form of appearance, considered in the light of the entire investigation and taking into account the right to a fair trial. If the investigating court considers that an appearance by videoconference would constitute an irreparable violation of the rights of the defence, it may decide to have the prisoner appear in person. Moreover, it is to be expected that suspects who are just the most dangerous and therefore most likely to appear via videoconference are just the ones who would opt for an appearance by transfer. One point that sometimes contradicts the use of videoconferencing is that the bill would not comply with Articles 5 and 6 of the ECHR. However, that is not the case. The said articles guarantee respectively the right to freedom and security and the right to a fair trial. This includes the right to a personal appearance, but that does not mean that suspects always have to appear face to face in the same room. At the time of the creation of the ECHR, the technique of videoconferencing did not exist. Moreover, the European Court accepts the use of the videoconferencing subject to a number of conditions. Firstly, the physical distance between the judge and the accused should not hinder an interactive debate. Secondly, if the judge considers that the debate will take place via videoconference, that decision must pursue a legitimate purpose. Thirdly, the defendant should be able to consult with his lawyer in a confidential manner during the videoconference. He must be able to build his defence through confidential conversations with his counsel. The bill meets all these criteria. A later royal decision will further elaborate the modalities. I would like to thank all those who have supported the proposal in committee and hopefully will support it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not go by four paths. My group and I will not support this text, which allows it to appear by video-conferencing in cases of pre-trial detention. Indeed, this text is in line with the logic of the government in matters of justice, i.e. to achieve so-called savings, always to the detriment of the rights of the litigants. These are so-called savings; indeed, no investigating court, no prison in the country is equipped to organize appearances by videoconference. Better than that, there is no budget line that we voted for less than a month ago to implement such a system. Let us be honest, that is not the real issue of this text. What is at stake are the rights of the defence, the presumption of innocence, the right to a fair trial. These elements require a free appearance before a court. Claiming his freedom from a prison can only negatively influence a judge. Whether consciously or not, and whether desired or not, the judge will have the impression of simply confirming a situation rather than ending a freedom. Colleagues, video surveillance could be considered if and only if it was sufficiently supervised and met certain conditions imposed by law. That's where the block hurts, since the video conferencing is not framed at all. The government is given full latitude to determine how it will be implemented. We have had lengthy debates on this subject in committee. We recalled that, with regard to a restriction on the right to appear in person and a restriction on the deprivation of liberty, such delegation of powers is not only shocking, it is disproportionate and therefore illegal. I would like to point out that such a delegation to another power is not contrary to the principle of equality provided that the authorisation is defined in a sufficiently precise manner and relates to the implementation of measures whose essential elements are laid down in advance by the legislator. The restriction on the right to appear in person before a judge must be worded in clear and sufficiently precise terms, allowing for a predictable understanding of the assumptions in which the legislator authorizes such interference in the law. This is not the case in this proposal. However, it is not for lack of opposition proposals, including my colleague Mr Brotcorne, to frame and circumscribe the appearance by video-conferencing. We have proposed, like lawyers.be, that it can only be organised with the consent of the accused, whose choice cannot be final and provided that it is not used for the confirmation of an arrest warrant or for the first appearance. In fact, Van Vaerenbergh, the author of the proposal, admitted that the use of this practice is justified only if there is a legitimate purpose such as a risk to public order or the safety of witnesses. We agree so much with this that we believe that this criterion must appear in the law, since this is a principle which is not intended to be found in a royal decree as proposed. Other principles, relating to fair trial and the rights of the defence, should also be reflected in the bill, including the place and role of the lawyer. Should the lawyer be at the side of his client or close to the one who will make the decision? How will the lawyer and his client communicate in order to ensure the confidentiality of their exchanges if they take place by telephone? Which phone, by the way? Another question that can be asked is whether the field of the camera should extend to the whole room so that, on either side, one can make sure that the discussion will not be influenced by external elements. The minister had suggested that in the event of a Level 4 alert, all appearances should be by videoconference. That is still a principle that deserves debate. Can a right be restricted in such a general way in a circumstance that is not linked to any level of alert? In conclusion, for our group, this bill has not been completed. In a matter of such fundamental and sensitive rights, we should be very cautious. In the straight line of its famous "pot-pourri II", the majority continues to regard justice as a luxury by gradually reducing the rights of litigants. My group cannot be part of this retrograde vision. Unsurprisingly, we will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I really do not like this bill. This is really a drift that we will be accountable for in the medium and long term. Again, under the pretext of false modernity, we will be forced to retreat in view of the effectiveness of justice and the individual rights of the litigants. Without wishing to confront anyone, I really feel like I must never have attended a board room and a betting room to dare come with such a proposal. What does this proposal ask us to do? When the magistrate considers it appropriate, for personal reasons or related to the record or nature of the offence, he may decide that it is not necessary to bring the detainee in and that a videoconference will be sufficient to assess whether the detention should be continued or not. We will have the opportunity to discuss this again next week in this false debate on whether or not to maintain the Court of Assizes; but we have made the state of the importance and quality of what the orality of the debates can bring to the evolution of a case. When you're in the council chamber, it's not so much orality that counts but non-verbal. For those who have already attended a chamber of council or a chamber of indictments, when a magistrate interrogates an inmate, when there is an interaction that occurs, there are sometimes non-responses or formatted answers, but there are attitudes that can be decisive in forming an opinion on a file. This is what a magistrate is asked to decide, not only on the basis of facts and law, but also on the basis of his intimate conviction. We would like to remove this kind of relationship tomorrow on the pretext that it will save us costs. Of course, since the prisoner should not be transported from the prison to the courthouse, the rooms will not be transported from one room to another. I think these are false expectations. First of all, what is the prison, apart from the new prisons, what is the courthouse that today is equipped to handle this type of videoconferencing? If you know any, tell me! At a time when, in all our courts, we are fighting for computerization worthy of this twenty-first century, no place is able to support what we are being offered today. Yeah, maybe for once, we're proactive, ahead of demand. But being so far ahead of time, when it does not meet a real demand, it is damaging! We know two ways to appear: to appear personally or to appear on representation by a lawyer chosen. And now we are told that video conferencing can replace all of this, but we don't know how to organize it. No way! No supervision! When we ask questions, the answer is that we will return everything to the king and that he will find the formulas that will answer the various objections. But objections are fundamental and it is up to the legislator to determine a minimum of criteria, on the basis of which the minister can submit to the king more concrete modalities! Is it - it appears from the text - the only president of the Chamber of Council or the Chamber of Indictments who will determine whether it is appropriate to appear by video-conferencing? Are the accused, the inmate or his counsel being asked for their opinion? Absolutely not! If the appearance takes place the first time by video conferencing, will it be held for the entire procedure? One day, we can decide that the appearance will be by videoconference, another, in a personal way, the third time, by videoconference. Or will it not be decided to use video conferencing as long as it is assumed that the detention will be continued to proceed with the personal appearance only when the elements are ripe for release? Again, won't this be an opportunity to prejudge a case? I'm saying you have to stay in prison, because I'm still going to confirm your warrant or am I deciding to see you because we can seriously discuss your parole? Second type of question. How is this going to happen? At some point, there will be images, since people will be physically distant. One of the protagonists will be in prison and the other, the president, will be in his office or in the room reserved for the council chamber and the betting room. Where will the King's attorney be? Next to whom will he appear on the images? Will he be in his office or sitting next to the president of the betting house or the chamber of council, a scenario that would help to achieve the objective contrary to that pursued, namely the neutrality of the situation. We sometimes ask that the prosecution no longer be associated with the trial judge in our correctional courts. And tomorrow, on the occasion of a video conference, we will see them sitting next to each other arresting an inmate who, for his part, will be in prison. Where will the detainee's lawyer be? Will he be in the prison? Will he be at the courthouse next to the magistrate and the king's attorney? Nothing's said! Nothing is settled in the text before us. On the other hand, an operator will have to be somewhere. Indeed, someone will have to make sure that the images appear on the screen. We'll have to see the magistrate when he talks. It will also be necessary to be able to see the inmate when he or she speaks. How are we going to "organize" the images, if not "manipulate" them? Indeed, the latter have a power of conviction and can lead to decisions that will be appreciated, not from verbal language, but from audiovisual language. This situation is dangerous. If the lawyer's presence is not settled, if the lawyer can be located outside of his client, what happens when, in the interactive debate, the president asks the inmate a question and the lawyer will not be able to assist his client in formulating his answer, since he will not be at his side? Will the rights of the defence be violated? Will the equality of arms between the President, the representative of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the detainee still have the right to a city? I draw attention here to the fact that my questions do not relate to acts of terrorism or great banditry. This is a question of pre-trial detention, before a decision on the merits comes into play, and of the individual freedom of each of those who, at some point in time, find themselves in the midst of justice, rightly or wrongly, by the way. All these situations are challenging for the democrats that we are all supposed to be in this House. You mustn't mess with this kind of thing! Is there a clear picture of the material difficulties that we will have to face and which, in my view, are relatively ancillary, but also and above all the real difficulty in delivering justice in a calm manner and in conformity with our obligations to respect human rights? The best guarantee that can be given and maintained is to maintain this personal appearance of the detainee before the magistrate who will decide whether or not the links of the arrest warrant should be confirmed. Doing something else or giving such a delegation to the king than the one we are about to do is really, in this House, giving up part of our power in a matter that affects the fundamental freedom of our fellow citizens. I can't accept it. The cdH can't accept it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u94	Mr President, I would like to reply briefly to both speakers who have just spoken. We discussed this bill for a long time in committee. All the arguments we have heard today have also been discussed in committee. I believe that I have also covered most of the arguments in my speech. I will not go into this in detail, but I would like to say that the use of the videoconference in the Netherlands has existed for ten years. In countries such as France, Northern Ireland, Scotland, Switzerland, Canada, Australia and probably others, this system already exists. I really do not understand why we should be an exception and why it should not be applied here alone. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u95	Mr President, since the Minister of Justice has just arrived, we can hope that it will take some time, and even some time, before the implementing order is made and this provision comes into force. At least that's the wish I'm making.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u96	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill deserves a thorough legal debate. As it stands, it does not provide legal certainty. This is where his main weakness lies, and this is the essential reproach that we make to those who wish to vote for it. Of course, it is not enough to invoke the existence of this procedure in other States – indeed, sometimes under conditions other than those provided for in this text. We can discuss the principle, but it is the conditions set out in the bill that are unsatisfactory, particularly in view of the requirements of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. This week, in the Committee on Justice, during the hearings of several actors in the judicial world on the proposal of our colleague Christian Brotcorne on the appeal on the enforcement of sentences, the representative of the bars, Mr Réginald de Béco, recalled: "Certainly, the TAP already sits in prison and unfortunately. But this simple fact leads to an obvious connivance between the members of the TAP and the prison, so that the first is the hostage of the second." We believe that this proposal will extend this role of hostage to the chambers of counsel and indictment. This is all the more regrettable since the accused in pre-trial detention are awaiting trial. Furthermore, we do not find ourselves in the case referred to by the European Court, where the case law was invoked at the time of a substantive decision. We are here in a completely different procedure. This is all the more serious since these accused are presumed innocent and, as such, must be tried in accordance with article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which specifies the content of the right to a fair trial. These guarantees include the right to a fair, public and reasonable hearing of the accused's case by an independent and impartial tribunal established by law. It is impartiality that is called into question by the bill under consideration. Indeed, we do not believe that the procedure established for videoconferencing provides guarantees for a court decision taken in complete serenity and objectivity. The double impartiality, which is not presented in any way by a penitentiary institution, must be not only effective, but also apparent. There is therefore no guarantee of this double impartiality. The discussions in committee recalled that the use of videoconference for the appearance of an accused in pre-trial detention may nevertheless be in accordance with the rules of a fair trial, but subject to strict respect for the safeguards specified in the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. It is a little weak to say that "prudence could evolve" to justify the bill, as the main author of the bill states in the commission's report. It must be noted that the author chose not to retain any of these guarantees specified in the case law of the European Court. He also pointed out that it was not for the legislator to specify the practical arrangements for video conferencing, but for the government, assuming that Dutch practice would serve as an example. How can there be room for supposition in a subject of equal importance to the rights of the defence? The right to a fair trial deserves precise legal guarantees, not approximations that give rise to legal uncertainty which we cannot accept, and which will in fact give rise to legal remedies. It is registered in advance: there will be appeals from several lawyers. And when a first decision has been handed down according to the procedure laid down by law, if it is adopted, you will see that there will be disputes going to the European Court. Should it be recalled that the European Convention on Human Rights specifies that jurisdiction and its way of functioning must be established by law, not by a royal decree? The proposal also raises problems of practical organisation. Of course, it is well known that most hearings in the Board Chamber are held in camera. There are, however, certain exceptions to this principle, for example where the board of counsel is entitled to an internment request. Its decision must be delivered in open court, a matter that is not at all resolved by the proposed legislation. In addition, at the close of the investigation and the rules of procedure, the constituted civil parties may attend the hearing of the Chamber of Council. What will remain of this publicity of the proceedings if justice is rendered in prison and, moreover, by video-conferencing? The bill is therefore more justified for budgetary reasons than for organizational and practical reasons. However, according to the previous Minister of Justice, it is impossible to calculate the cost of transporting prisoners. Therefore, moving forward on reducing the cost of transporting prisoners as the main argument for justifying this bill is very weak in view of the legal guarantee required by the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. Therefore, the drafters of the bill would be unable to tell us what the reality is of the budget savings expected by the introduction of videoconferencing, even though the cost of the current system is unknown. Is it not more expensive to move magistrates and lawyers rather than the detainee? In any event, history repeats itself: while the federal government is unable to adequately finance the judiciary, a trend that is becoming worrying since the first President of the Court of Cassation has expressed his concern at this development which is detrimental to a rule of law, the majority is adding an additional element of instability to the judiciary by delocating justice to prisons, not taking into account in any way the views of judges and lawyers, who are unfavourable to it. We can hope that, in the end, even if the Minister of Justice were to allow this bill to enter into force within a short period of time, most magistrates would not resort to this option, would disdain it, and would reserve to this law the fate that any lawyer who is somewhat warned must reserve to him, that is, the failure to apply an inoperative law that does not respect fundamental guarantees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u97	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u98	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (993/8) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (993/8) The bill has 10 articles. The bill has 10 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u99	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u100	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Patrick Dewael, Carina Van Cauter, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u101	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u102	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u103	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, people are making and cracking. Too often we find that young children, young people, fewer young citizens, inside and outside the family, inside and outside the school, in sports clubs or simply on the street are victims of sexual abuse. The numbers don't lie. In 2014, the public prosecutors had to open nearly 10 000 files of sexual assault or rape or, in other words, 26 files a day. Then we know that these figures do not even include the dossiers of paedophilia and intra-family violence. Although these figures may indicate a positive trend that more and more victims are finding their way to a declaration of aid, sexual abuse remains a phenomenon that is difficult to eradicate. So the battle has not yet been fought and will require our attention on several fronts at the same time. I am thinking, of course, of prevention, but also of detection and appropriate punishment. We are also thinking of unsub therapy, so that recidivism can be prevented where possible. In other words, our hope is aimed at the men and women in the field who are in daily danger for our safety. Our Parliament is also expected not to look the other way, not to sit still, but to take action where necessary. What the Sexual Abuse Committee has taught us is that silence in these alone serves the perpetrators, never the victims. That by taking action on the ground can actually change, we have established in practice. Think about the sexual abuse within the church and the files in which the church has taken responsibility. 600 files have been processed today. Perhaps that is a good example for the Muslim executive, perhaps they too should think of a hotline, in order to participate in the fight against sexual abuse. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that action against voyeurism gave rise to difficulties in practice. In the absence of specific criminalisation, there has sometimes been and sometimes has not been action. Some courts qualified the facts as a form of sexual assault on honorability, while others found that in the absence of violence or threat, not all the constituent elements of a crime were present and that the offender could go free. To be short, the chance that a voyeur was left untouched was much greater than the chance that he was punished. However, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that these facts seriously affect one's sexual honour, integrity and privacy. In addition, it is found that these facts are often the beginning of further slipping criminal behavior. If we can act from the outset, by providing a solid legal basis, the message is very clear as far as we are concerned. With the text now before us, we are closing a gap in our legislation and increasing legal certainty. Voyeurism in itself becomes a criminal offence, it becomes punishable by observing a person, by making him or her image or sound material, with or without tools, without the consent or knowledge of the victim who is exposed or committed a sexual act, in an environment where he or she could reasonably expect that his or her privacy would not be violated. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to criminalising voyeurism, we have tried to solve an additional problem, in particular the distribution of naked photos or videos without the victim's consent. This too is not a criminal offence today. However, you can undoubtedly recall situations where the advent of the Internet and social media after a break-up such images are sent around as revenge. We also want to be able to act on this in order to enforce the rights of the victims. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the qualification of sexual assault is extended to include coercion, surprise or ruse. Similarly, spying on someone who is intoxicated for medical reasons may be punishable. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude with an Arabic proverb, as a good liberal friend reminded me in the wake of the farewell of his active career. He reminded me that four things never come back: the spoken word, the shot arrow, the past and an opportunity that is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you all for taking the opportunity today to take another step in the fight against sexual abuse. I should like to thank all of you for your patience in the creation and improvement of the texts and your cooperation with them. Finally, a word of thanks to our group leader Patrick Dewael for his inspiration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u104	Mrs Van Cauter, of course we will be supporting this proposal with all our heart. We are pleased that this gap in legislation is finally being filled. We have tabled a similar bill, which is very similar to the one that will be voted on today, document No. 1120. However, in the wording, there is a difference between our proposal and what is before us today. We include the reservation of an acceptable reason and malice in the wording. I have a concern about which I would like to hear from you whether this is provided for in the legislative proposal. Take, for example, a school director who has good reason to believe that something is going wrong in the girls' dressing room for gymnastics lessons. If, on the basis of rumours he has heard, he himself takes a look, could he be unjustly rubbed with voyeurism by parents who, for example, are angry with bad reports? Is malice a condition? Can an acceptable reason be invoked to counter such unjust cases? Unrighteous accusations of voyeurism are, of course, also something we must avoid.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u105	Mr President, I would like to refer you to the report on the discussions in committee. We have also had a wide-ranging discussion on this issue, including with Mr Van Hecke. When you read all the constructive elements together, you will find an answer to the concerns you have just expressed. We do not want to punish such situations. By combining the various elements of the qualification, we have built in a guarantee for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this was a long-standing gap. Finally, secretly spying on someone's nakedness will no longer be possible. Finally, nude images can't be distributed without permission. Examples have been given: revenge porn after a breakup, and even young people who are bullied at school. We all know that this can have terrible consequences for the young person who is the subject. We also know that digitalisation, the media and the Internet can make this happen more often and more quickly today. We can only welcome the fact that the qualification "assault" of the honourable Member is being updated by the changes in compulsion, surprise and ruse. Today there are gaps in sexual criminal law that need to be filled in for a long time. The law will be amended, this will be punishable. We now have an additional means to protect victims, to act and to say as a society that this cannot be done. The meshes of the net are increasingly closed. I am very pleased with this proposal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u107	Mr President, the legislator is often accused of drafting laws that do not serve any purpose or complicate the legal arsenal. This is not the case here because we take into account the evolution of morals, the evolution of technology, but also the case law which was clearly uncomfortable with this problem of voyeurism. As the judgments of the Court of Cassation have confirmed on several occasions, it could not bring all voyeuristic behaviour into the indecent attack. It was therefore necessary to legislate. The Open Vld, through Mrs Van Cauter, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu and my communal neighbour, Mr Dewael, took matters into their own hands and presented a text in the Committee on Justice which received the support of all the groups present in committee. It was important to be able to do it. This text, on the one hand, raises uncertainty and, on the other, gives a clear signal about behaviour that is not acceptable. My group obviously welcomes this proposal. We will support it, just as we did in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u108	Mr President, when the texts are good as is the case here, we do not hesitate to support them. We will therefore support this text by the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u109	Mr President, I agree with what the chairman of the committee has said. We had a very rich discussion in committee, in which everyone, across the boundaries of majority and opposition, agreed that we should be able to solve the problem. This has been done in a constructive way. The opposition also cooperated constructively. I should like to stress once again that the existence of the second reading has once again helped us very much to monitor coherence. After all, it is often very complex to address a specific problem. This has so many consequences for other legislation. The House's legislative technical service has helped us very well in this respect, and hopefully we have made the text perfect. I would also like to thank the members of the committee for the openness that there is always in the Committee on Justice to work with that second reading. It was Mrs Van Cauter who proposed this herself. I would also like to thank those who have done an excellent job and helped us to deliver a high quality text today. We shall therefore be voting in favour of the text today with a great deal of conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u110	Mr President, I would simply like to join the previous speaker. I would like to congratulate Mrs Van Cauter. She thanked us for our patience. However, I would like to congratulate her on the persistence with which she has tried to fit the proposal as well as possible, which was not always easy. That was proven this afternoon. The sp.a will also adopt this proposal with great conviction. The proposal closes a gap in the law, which, with the progress of social media, was in danger of increasing. With the proposal, we are going to hit the hole in an effective way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u111	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u112	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (699/14) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (699/14) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending various provisions relating to the sexual assault on the dignity and voyeurism." The title has been amended by the committee to propose a law amending various provisions with regard to indecent assault and voyeurism." The bill has 32 articles. The bill has 32 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u113	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u114	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Stefaan Van Hecke, Benoit Hellings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u115	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u116	Mr President, this bill has been the subject of a positive opinion by the R Committee and a unanimous vote by the Commissioners of the Justice Committee. I therefore refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have a special session today, because in the end four legislative proposals have already been dealt with. They are therefore texts which have not been tabled on the initiative of the government, but on the initiative of Parliament, until plenary session. That's worth mentioning. I am very happy to be here today for this legislative proposal, because it has received a great deal of opposition support in the committee and was adopted unanimously. I think it is important to mention this and I am pleased that there has been openness in the committee to work constructively there, not only because it is a proposal from the opposition, but above all because it may hopefully lead to putting proposals on the agenda that have been circulating for a long time and are logical, often as a result of suggestions and recommendations made by various bodies to Parliament, and to convert them into legislative texts. Colleagues, every year we get a lot of reports, for example from the College of Attorneys General, with a lot of suggestions for sometimes technical or small adjustments, which are necessary. Too often they do not receive emergency treatment and continue to receive treatment for a long time. The same can be said of many of the recommendations made by the P Committee or the I Committee. The proposed text is one of these. It is the result of a recommendation which the Committee I has already made three times. For the first time, this was done in the 2006 annual report, ten years ago, then in the 2008 annual report and then again in 2012. I would just like to quote briefly from the 2006 Committee I annual report: "The monitoring of the activities of foreign intelligence services in Belgium is not included as such as a legal task for State Security or for the ADIV. The Standing Committee I considers that this competence should be explicitly incorporated into the law. Belgium's intelligence services are best placed to identify and assess the activities of sister foreign services, including their friends." It also refers to other European initiatives and statements about them. The content of the bill is therefore quite simple. It provides a legal basis for intelligence services to effectively monitor the operation of foreign intelligence services on our territory. Colleagues, we should not just bear in mind a theoretical possibility. In practice, the problem really arises. For this reason, the Committee I has made this recommendation. Allow me to go back in time for a moment. I immediately found an article in the interest of Limburg from 2014 titled "Rwandese heatams are active in Belgium." That article contained the story of a Canadian journalist who came to Belgium. She was investigating murders by the Rwandan regime and wanted to speak here with members of the opposition. She stayed in Belgium for a week and was protected here for a week by the Belgian State Security, because her safety in Belgium could not be guaranteed because of the presence of Rwandan so-called heatams, about which the State's security had been informed. Besides, Belgian journalists were protected during that period for the same reason. I do not want to deny you the second example. When the text was adopted in committee, I received an e-mail from a resident of our country in French. Hij zegt: "J" lives in Brussels and has been living in Belgium for more than 17 years. I am Belgian and of Rwandan origin. He told me how he was active as a young student in an association that pays attention to and is concerned about the democratic evolution in his native Rwanda. From the opposition, he's trying to do something about it. He explains to me how he is regularly followed, intimidated. Hij spreekt over: On two occasions, it happened to cross the road of men of hand to the pay of the Rwandan regime who had come to insult us, threaten us, intimidate us. Last time, they even stole our phones." In other words, it is not just a theoretical possibility: there are foreign intelligence services operating in our country. This is not only because of the presence of European and international institutions, which makes us the capital of espionage, but also because of the presence of opposition groups in Belgium, often from countries of our former colonies. Whoever is active here is often monitored. Foreign intelligence is active here and they intimidate them. I think it is of the utmost importance that we create a legal framework which will enable our intelligence services to monitor the foreign intelligence services and, if necessary, to intervene in order to protect the security of those who live in our country. It's certainly a useful law. I hope that the security of the state and the military intelligence services will use it gratefully. I would like to thank my colleagues from the committee for their support for this proposal. I hope that cooperation across the borders of majority and opposition will still be possible in the future. This was already the case in the case of previous proposals. Hopefully we can continue to work in the Committee on Justice and in the other committees in the same way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u118	In recent times, there has been a lot of public attention for our intelligence services. Terrorism is a topical issue. At the same time, intelligence services should continue to focus on other key issues. Mr Van Hecke has already said that there are many foreign security and intelligence services operating on our territory. The reasons have been cited: our country has many foreign institutions and international organisations. Belgium is a real hotspot in this area. How many spies there are in our country, we don't really know. In the past, figures have already been mentioned. Alain Winants, the former Director of State Security, once said there were at least hundreds of them. Those are his words. There are a lot of them active. The follow-up of the foreign intelligence and security services has been a question for a long time in Committee I reports, recently mentioned in the 2012 Activity Report. Mr Van Hecke's proposal, after amendment, is certainly a good text for our group. We have taken the risk of not asking for a second reading. The text has passed the opinion of the Committee I. We have added an amendment on a cooperation agreement between ADIV and State Security. On the basis of guidelines from the National Security Council, they must set priorities and assess what is important, what spies must be followed and how to work concretely. In short, our group will be pleased to approve the proposal in order to be able to exercise better control over the various security services operating on our territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u119	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to congratulate our colleague Van Hecke, who is the basis of this text, who creates a case law from which we should draw, in each of our committees, to do quality legislative work that meets the needs and expectations of the citizens and the services guaranteeing the safety of Belgians on a day-to-day basis on the ground. Brussels is a haven of spies, because on our soil the seats of the European Union and NATO are located. That is what the R Committee said. It is on their report that Mr. Van Hecke relied on it to draft this bill. We also know that the migration links are and have been strong between Belgium and the Congo, Belgium and Rwanda, Belgium and Burundi, Belgium and Turkey, Belgium and Morocco. However, we know that these countries use intelligence agents, security agents and spies to control what they see as diasporas in Belgium, particularly in Brussels. The question of Saudi Arabia, which has been at the heart of the news for many years, also arises. Currently - it is one of the challenges of living together for the future - it is about being able to constitute an Executive of the Muslims of Belgium, which is in the image of Belgian Islam. However, undercover agents from Saudi Arabia, Morocco and Turkey play a turbulent role in the formation of a real Belgian Muslim executive, effective and capable of bringing out a true Belgian Islam. The fight against radicalisation is at the heart of many projects that we have analysed and will analyse in the coming weeks. To be able to fight against these officials, spies, foreign agents who manipulate part of our fellow citizens, monitor them, intimidate them is a way to effectively combat this phenomenon of radicalization. Belgium can be pleased to be the receptacle of many political refugees. Today, in many countries of the South, especially in Central Africa, citizens committed to human rights find on our soil, especially in Brussels, a receptacle, a place to find political asylum. Today, these political opponents, these human rights activists are protected by our laws, our security services, our police and our society. However, the same are the subject of spinning and sometimes intimidation. Our intelligence services, starting with State Security, must be able to verify what their counterparts are doing on our soil. The motion for a law that the Greens have tabled and that you are going to vote earlier will now allow it. I will conclude by addressing an important aspect. Today, the question that arises in the light of the new task entrusted to the State Security and the intelligence services of the army is that of means, in particular human means. The missions of the first consist mainly of infiltrations, spinnings and a follow-up of spies present in our territory. It is not strictly computer tools that will help it to combat the phenomenon of interference covered by this bill. These are human means. The Greens will pay particular attention to the fact that a substantial part of the 400 million allocated to the fight against radicalism will also go to the intelligence teams themselves. As you will have understood, it is therefore with enthusiasm that we will vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u120	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u121	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (553/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (553/6) The bill has 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u122	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u123	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u124	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u125	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u126	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1439/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1439/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u127	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u128	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Philippe Blanchart, Stéphane Crusnière, Elio Di Rupo, Gwenaëlle Grovonius, Fabienne Winckel, Fatma Pehlivan, Dirk Van der Maelen. The Committee on External Relations proposes that this motion for a resolution be rejected. (1581/2) The Committee on External Relations proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (1581/2) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament expressed its views on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Benoit Hellings refers to his written report, which was distributed on the benches.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u130	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, now in Poland, a minister can "turn" without any form of trial, bosses and presenters of public channels. The government and a propaganda service control the media. Several judges have been replaced. Constitutional power is targeted. The entire intelligence hierarchy has been renewed in less than a day. The police have access to telephone and bank records of the population. And new reforms are planned by this government in the coming weeks. In short, Poland uses its majority to dismantle the democratic control system. We're witnessing majoritarianism coming through the ballot box. State sovereignty cannot, under any circumstances, call into question the common values that are the pillars, the basic rules of our democracy. Of course, the European Commission will issue an investigation report in March. Moreover, in committee, the colleagues of the majority – which I can understand – wanted to give the Union every opportunity to complete its new investigation procedure. But the same day, Tuesday, as we were discussing in committee, the Polish Foreign Minister was kicking the new procedure in question by declaring it unfounded and illegal. Since then, the representatives of this Conservative party have consistently advocated their sovereignty. It sets the tone, announces the colour and lets us guess the possible scope of the findings of the investigation and their effect on this government that is in love with authoritarianism unacceptable to the democrats we claim to be. Ladies and gentlemen, this text calls on our Government to condemn the liberticide drifts against the Polish people and to hold this firm and unique position. By protecting the Polish Conservative Party, we would abandon millions of Poles who resist and need our support more than ever. This resolution is far more comprehensive than Poland alone. It deserves to be re-examined in the light of developments in Poland and elsewhere (with reference to other unfortunate developments that have recently occurred in Hungary and Slovakia) and of the way in which the European Commission's conclusions will be received by that Government. Ladies and gentlemen, I really invite you to reflect before referring this text back to oblivion because it comes from a member of the opposition. I simply ask you to vote against the rejection of this text and to refer it back to committee to really consider it and possibly introduce amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to use the passage in plenary to try again to convince my fellow Members of the majority of the fact that what is going to happen in Poland is not an ordinary matter and that, as the main applicant, Mr Blanchart, has just said, it might be wise to return to the Committee on External Relations. I have three questions. My first question is what is actually happening in Poland. The Members of the Committee on External Relations know this, but the other Members do not. I will tell you what has already been decided in Poland. Three decisions have been taken on which I think we should be concerned. Firstly, two days after the installation of the new government, the entire summit of all security services has been replaced. Secondly, fourteen days later, a new appointment procedure followed for the summit of all administrations and all administrations, which gives the government discretion over these officials. In short, an unprecedented politicisation at one blow from the entire Polish administration. Thirdly, as a blow, five new judges are appointed to the Constitutional Court. There will be a complete review of the functioning of the Court, so that it will not in fact be able to reverse any decision of the government. Colleagues, what else is in the pipeline? Listen carefully. Firstly, as if what I have just listed is not bad enough, there is still the merger of Attorney General and the Minister of Justice in the pipeline. That has never been seen before, attorney general and minister of justice in the same person! Secondly, all journalists are also worried sick about the overall review of the legislation organised by the audiovisual sector in Poland. Thirdly, the whole electoral law is going down. It is not yet well known what this means, but much good does not predict it. Colleagues, those first three points have already been achieved, the other three are about to be achieved. Ladies and gentlemen, the second question you must ask yourself, and I would like to help you, is who has responded to it and in what way. The first response came from Secretary-General Jagland of the Council of Europe and from Commissioner for Human Rights Muižnieks of the Council of Europe. They have sent the petition to Warsaw: do not approve of the new legislation, turn over the new legislation voted on. The second response came from the European Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember debates, here in the Chamber, about Medgar in Slovakia. I remember hot debates on FPÖ and Austria. You may remember Louis Michel, then Foreign Minister, who recommended that we stop skiing in Austria. That may be anecdotal, but we then discussed very serenely and very seriously the worrying evolution. We have also debated Orban and Hungary here. However, no committee has ever taken the step in any of the three examples to initiate the procedure for violating the rule of law in a Member State. Well, in this case, the European Commission did. Colleagues, who else has responded? The European Parliament, which considers the time has come to give its support to the action launched by the European Commission. Especially for the Liberals, but hopefully also for the other Members, I will read to you what a former Prime Minister of this country, Guy Verhofstadt, has said in the European Parliament. I quote: "It is not the increase in the quorum at the Court; it is not the two-thirds majority you impose; it is not the order of laws to be dealt with; it is not the President's refusal to accept the oath of appointed judges. It is true, Madam Prime Minister, that he addressed the Prime Minister of Poland to all these elements together. As a result, the Constitutional Court is paralyzed. End of quote. Ladies and gentlemen, on Tuesday morning, Mr Blanchart will be tabling a resolution in the Committee on External Relations of the European Parliament saying that this resolution is not to be adopted or not to be adopted. He does not ask for a vote to be taken on the same day and says that his group is open to amendments by the majority. The situation is serious enough not to turn it into a game of majority and opposition, he says, and he asks us to look together at how we should react to this worrying evolution in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to have to say this, but the majority is refusing dialogue. The resolution was voted down.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u132	Mr Vandenput, you have the floor, but this is in principle against the Rules of Procedure, so I would ask you to be brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u133	Mr President, Mr Van der Maelen mentioned the Liberal Party and I am a member of it. I therefore believe that I have the right to give some clarification. Mr van der Maelen, what we said in committee, and you are chairman of that committee, is, first of all, that we do not agree at all with what is happening in Poland today. That is a first point. Secondly, as a liberal, I fully support what Guy Verhofstadt said and what you just quoted. We have also said, however, that we do not want to get involved and that we will wait for the European Commission's research today to draw conclusions. As good democrats, as guardians of democracy, we will be the first, Mr van der Maelen, to take an initiative together with all the democratic parties in this hemisphere if this report shows that action is to be taken. That is what we said in committee, and that is why we decided to wait for the European Commission's report. This does not correspond to the content of Mr Blanchart's resolution. He already condemns that, putting the cart in front of the horse. He also asks for a committee of inquiry, but a committee of inquiry is already in progress. That is the only reason why we believe that this resolution cannot be adopted at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u134	There will be another interruption and I assume it will be equally short.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u135	Mr President, Mr Van der Maelen, we must not run any faster than the European Commission, which has just been talking to Poland today. The necessary mechanisms that Europe must maintain as a guardian of this problem are in progress. Mr Timmermans and Poland are talking. That is what we said at the committee meeting. We have no problem with taking an initiative of our own, because that is always possible. The fact that this resolution was voted off at the committee meeting last week and could not be discussed further was for very different reasons, and we explained those reasons at that time. In this resolution there is such an intrinsic contradiction that we cannot live with it. That was our objection. So it was not about the situation in Poland. We do not want to give the impression that we agree with what is happening in Poland; we do not agree with it. The process, the negotiations currently under way between the European Commission and Poland, must take place. They have to do their job. Let that thrive for a while. We look forward to the results. However, the resolution before us is intrinsically incorrect. That resolution calls for the separation of powers. Now, let the necessary legal power do its job and allow that process to be carried out. The resolution says out loud that we must respect freedom of expression. At the same time, however, it is stated that what is said in Poland should not be said. It can't be. That is why the resolution was not accepted. The non-acceptance of that resolution does not rule out the possibility of continuing the debate on the substance in any other way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u136	I have just said that Mr Blanchart has done what has happened or is going on in many other parliaments. The national parliaments, the Member States themselves, are considering very serious and worrying developments, and hopefully we agree on this, not just any Member State. It is one of the largest Member States of the European Union. The honourable Member has said that his resolution cannot be taken or left. If you had a problem with it, you could have amended it, but you didn't want it. We could have easily turned that resolution into a declaration of support to the Commission. That was an important signal. Have you followed the debate in the European Parliament, my fellow Members? It will be necessary for the European Commission to receive support from the democrats and believers in the rule of law. It turns out that the Commission is under attack from different angles in the European Parliament itself about this procedure. I regret that the majority in this House did not wish to deliver that statement of support to the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u137	Mr President, I agree to await the conclusion of the examination of the procedure and the proposals for conclusions. Although, in the meantime, the Polish government has expressed itself in denigrating this procedure as such, we can wait. This will not be long, since the conclusions will normally be delivered in early March. However, this text can be referred to the committee for consideration at the beginning of March. I have no problem with that. None! The most important thing is that at some point, after the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry, we can take a decision on the situation in Poland.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u138	Mr President, like my colleagues, I would like to speak because our group does not want any ambiguity with regard to the attitude we had in committee and that we will have earlier at the time of the vote. On the one hand, it's not a "majority versus opposition" game. On a subject as important as this one, if it had been possible, we would have been happy to have come to something together. On the other hand, this is in no way a form of support for the Polish position. We are critical of developments in Poland. But, as Europeans strongly committed to maintaining and improving the functioning of the European Union, if we voted on a motion or a resolution that already stated, in advance, that the Belgian State condemned Poland, we would reduce to zero the credibility of the procedure set up by the European Commission. There were problems with Hungary, and there was no procedure. Mr Van der Maelen, you recalled the position of Louis Michel, who had asked us not to go skiing in Austria. There was no procedure either at that time. Today, Messrs. Michel and Verhofstadt defend a criticism of Polish politics. That is quite normal: they are Members of the European Parliament and they speak out. We, if we vote on a resolution, speak on behalf of a national parliament that asks its national government to condemn in advance, a priori, what is being done at European level. That is what we believe is dangerous. Why? Because there will be other cases. The European Commission must show today, together with Poland, that it is capable of having a democratic procedure that allows answers to be given. Today, killing this procedure by an a priori vote which would already say that the Belgian State considers that everything that is done in Poland is bad, it is not good for the credibility of the European procedure. We are strongly attached to this one. Finally, if, at the end of the procedure, it appears that the Commission is disappointed, we will be the first, as liberals, to propose a text and to defend the values of the European Union. What you want to do is put the plow before the ox...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u139	Mr President, I very much like Mr Miller's speeches, but when he gets into the towers, he is wrong! Mr. Miller, your position is abracadabrantesque for three reasons. First, the majority supported Mr Blanchart last week to vote on this resolution as a matter of urgency. We got it! Never in the history of our assembly, we voted for urgency and then immediately set it aside when it was interesting, challenging and important in itself. Secondly, what you're saying is incorrect, Mr. Miller! Mr Blanchart did not ask for the vote. We just told you and explained it to you again. I don't know what language to tell you so you can understand. There was no request for a vote. There was a request for examination, an amendment and Mr Blanchart's proposal at the outset to postpone the vote in order to be able to know the results of the procedure launched by the European Commission. Finally, I saw Mr. Louis Michel's emotion about Poland. Mr Vandenput, I saw the emotion of Mr Guy Verhofstadt. I saw how much he wanted us to adopt a clear attitude towards Poland and its consideration for European values. And that's the message you're sending! You're asking that there's not even an exam! You do not even ask for the postponement of the consideration of this resolution! You ask that it be purely and simply definitively rejected and not examined by the House. Such behaviour is amazing!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u140	Colleagues, I have just been told that under rule 88 of the Rules of the House, this kind of debate is not planned. But as the latter has been started, it must be pursued.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u141	Mr President, I heard Mr Miller say that when we tabled this resolution, we wanted to do a publicity. Mr. Miller, you're questioning Mr. Blanchart here. You question his sincerity. You call into question his democratic convictions, his convictions in defence of freedoms in this country, but also in all European countries. I denounce your contempt for one of your colleagues who has always fought for the Enlightenment in Belgium, but also in all European countries. Besides, I'm calling you. You said that it is not up to us, through the vote on a resolution, to condemn Poland in advance, when a European process has been initiated. On this point, I can hear you. That is why we were asking that the examination of the dossier in committee be continued in parallel with the process initiated at European level, and in particular with the investigation carried out by the latter. What I am asking again is not the vote, but simply the continuation of the debate in committee in accordance with the European procedure. Indeed, by voting against this resolution, you will suggest that you refuse to interfere in this debate and to defend the democratic freedoms to which every European citizen is entitled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u142	Mr. Richard Miller has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u143	Mr President, thank you. Mrs Onkelinx, I never think I have questioned the intellectual honesty of our colleague Blanchart. If he could believe it, I'll apologize to him. It wasn't in my mind at all. On the other hand, don't come to play holy noodles either! Let a text be submitted suddenly, accompanied by a request for urgency by the Socialist Party and its Flemish co-religionaries, this clearly shows the existence of a political reflection with a view to an initiative to be taken before the majority! Your wish was to table a text without proposing to the colleagues of the majority to defend it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u144	I will put an end to this debate. Mr Blanchart, you will have the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u145	Mr Miller, without seeking controversy, because that is not my purpose, I would remind you that the urgency has been called for because of the European agenda which provides for a meeting at the beginning of February. Those who know me a little know that I'm not the kind of guy looking for a commercial! On the other hand, I reiterate that I am not asking for urgency on a vote, but for work on a text that touches on the foundations of European values. I fully agree with you to comply fully with the procedure. I respect the European institutions. The debate can very well begin after early March and after the Commission has taken a decision on the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u146	These were all interruptions to Mr van der Maelen's speech. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Maelen, hoping that he will take a brief decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u147	I would like to ask Mr Vandenput and Mr Miller what else they need to be convinced that there is something thoroughly wrong in a European Member State if, first, the Secretary-General of Europe says that it is not right there, and, second, for the first time since the creation of the European Union, the European Commission has launched a procedure for carrying out a study into the functioning of the rule of law in a constitutional state? Gentlemen, what more do you need? Why can there be a statement of support for the European Commission, and this is the key question, if it is so obvious that there is something wrong? The European Commission needs that support. I have questions about that. Mr Blanchart is now asking for the second time not to vote on the text and to refer it back to committee. But I've seen it in your body language and heard it in your words: you're not senseless to do that. I didn't want to say it because I was hoping we could reach a consensus. But now I'll tell you what I think. The N-VA is not going to continue with the dossier, because PiS and Kaczynski are part of the Conservative Group, which also includes Cameron, and because Bart De Wever wants to set up a large Eurosceptic group in Europe to undermine Europe's achievements. The N-VA does not tolerate the criticism by means of a vote in our Parliament on Poland. The colleagues of CD&V remain silent and follow. Why is that? That's because they have a huge problem in their own group called Fides van Orban. I am most disappointed by the members of the Liberal Group. Liberals and Social Democrats have always stood shoulder to shoulder in defending democracy in Europe and in the rest of the world and condemning any violation of the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, you can't be N-VA. You keep your mouth shut. You bit off your tongue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u148	What we have done, ladies and gentlemen, is very exceptional within Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure. No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the motion to reject the motion for a resolution will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u149	The Conference of Presidents of 20 January 2016 shall propose to the Chamber of Representatives the terms of reference of the members of the Scientific Committee of the Centre for Arbitration on Sexual Abuse appointed by the Chamber, Mr Paul Martens and Mr Herman Verbist, to be extended until 31 March 2016. The Conference of Presidents of 20 January 2016 proposes to the House of Representatives to extend the term of office of the members of the Scientific Committee of the Centre of Arbitration on Sexual Abuse appointed by the House, MM. Paul Martens and Herman Verbist, until March 31, 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u150	Whereas, on 19 November 2015, the Chamber of Representatives agreed to leave the Registrar's question on 30 September 2016, Considering that the House of Representatives granted on 19 November 2015 at the request of the Registrar to be able to cease to hold office on 30 September 2016, having regard to the procedure for the appointment of the Registrar adopted by the plenary session of 19 November 2015, having regard to the procedure for the appointment of the Clerk of the House adopted in plenary session on 19 November 2015, having regard to the call for candidates of 20 November 2015 and the candidature submitted by Mr Marc Van der Hulst, Deputy Griffin, having regard to the call for candidates of 20 November 2015 and the candidature submitted by Mr Marc Van der Hulst, Deputy Registrar, having regard to the reasoned proposal made by the Bureau of the Chamber on 6 January 2016 to propose unanimously to the plenary session Mr Marc Van der Hulst, Deputy Registrar, as Registrar of the Chamber, on the date of 1 October 2016, Having regard to the reasoned proposal made by the Bureau of the House on 6 January 2016 to present unanimously at the plenary sitting, Mr Marc Van der Hulst, Deputy Registrar, as Clerk of the House of Representatives on 1 October 2016, Whereas the members of the Court have been able to examine the complete procedural file and no comment has been made, Considering that the members of the Chamber have been able to consult the complete procedural file and that no observations have been made, whereas Mr Marc Van der Hulst, Deputy Griffin, fulfils the conditions laid down by the plenary session of the Chamber on 19 November 2015, Considering that Mr Marc Van der Hulst, Deputy Registrar, meets the conditions laid down by the Chamber in plenary session of 19 November 2015, having regard to the candidate's certificates of competence and merits, Considering the titles and merits of the candidate, Whereas Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber provides that, if there is only one candidate, it shall be declared elected by the plenary without a secret ballot, having regard to rule 157.6 of the Rules of the Chamber, which provides that if there is only one candidate, the candidate shall be declared elected by the plenary without a vote, I hereby declare Mr Marc Van der Hulst as Registrar of the Chamber of Representatives on the date of 1 October 2016. I declare Mr.Marc Van der Hulst elected as Clerk of the House of Representatives on 1 October 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u151	The procedure for the appointment of a new Deputy Registrar to replace Mr Marc Van der Hulst on 1 October 2016 will be launched on 22 January 2016. The procedure for the appointment of a new Deputy Registrar to replace Mr.Marc Van der Hulst on 1 October 2016 will begin on 22 January 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u152	By e-mail dated 21 January 2016, the N-VA group of the Chamber informed me that Mr Peter De Roover was appointed as group chairman. By e-mail of 21 January 2016, the House's N-VA Group informed me of the appointment of Mr.Peter De Roover as Group Chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u153	The N-VA Group proposed replacing Ms Sarah Smeyers as outgoing Bureau member by Mr Hendrik Vuye. The N-VA group proposed replacing Sarah Smeyers, a member of the resigned Bureau, with Hendrik Vuye. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u154	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I also propose the motion for a resolution (Mr Benoit Hellings and Mr Wouter De Vriendt) on the Broad Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) concluded between the European Union and Canada, No. 1597/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u155	I also propose that you take into account the motion for a resolution (MM). Benoit Hellings and Wouter De Vriendt) concerning the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between the European Union and Canada, No. 1597/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u156	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u157	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on External Relations on 13 January 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the External Relations Commission of 13 January 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 094/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Gwenaëlle Grovonius and MM. Philippe Blanchart, Stéphane Crusnière and Dirk Van der Maelen; - a simple motion was tabled by Sarah Claerhout and Nele Lijnen and MM. Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Peter Luykx and Richard Miller. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 094/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Mr Philippe Blanchart, Mr Stéphane Crusnière and Mr Dirk Van der Maelen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sarah Claerhout and Mrs Nele Lijnen and by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Mr Peter Luykx and Mr Richard Miller. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u158	Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of all my colleagues to something that I believe is important in this matter. As a reminder, following the catastrophic events in Nepal, B-FAST has been the subject of numerous criticisms of how this crisis has been managed. In this context, the Minister undertook to submit an audit on B-FAST. This audit was delivered to the Minister on November 23, 2015 and was discussed at the Council of Ministers on December 18, 2015. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, today, 21 January 2016, as parliamentarians, we still do not have access to this audit on B-FAST. This is unacceptable! I wanted to expose him publicly. It is important for you to be aware of this. My group therefore wished to table this motion so that its priorities for B-FAST could be heard. They're simple. It is necessary to ensure that this tool, which is already fifteen years old and has proved its worth, can be sustained. Of course, it must be evaluated and it must evolve. But this must be done in a positive way. We must ensure that this tool, this unique instrument, which must remain public and which enables humanitarian action to be carried out with all actors in many Belgian departments, can continue to function and work in the best possible way. This obviously implies having a very clear strategic vision, priorities, indicators and, we would like to stress, means. Human resources, logistical resources, material resources and, of course, my fellow Members, budgetary resources. That's what my group wants to put forward. This is what the PS wants for the future of B-FAST.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u159	Mr President, of course we have studied the text tabled by Mrs Grovonius. We also heard Minister Reynders' responses. The Minister noted that B-FAST's evaluation was still fully underway and that it was also supported by several other reports, both internally and externally. Strategic choices will be made on the basis of an analysis to be presented to Parliament with the audit and the external report. The Minister also believes that it is important, Mrs Grovonius, to learn from previous missions. However, it will verify whether there are any reports on these missions. Finally, the Minister assured that all documents would be forwarded to Parliament once the final analysis had been completed. In conclusion, and based on the arguments put forward, we felt that it was necessary for our group not to follow the motion tabled by Ms.Grovonius and we tabled a simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u160	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u161	Yes 82 Yes No. 61 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u162	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 13 January 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 13 January 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 095/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Willy Demeyer; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koen Metsu. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 095/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Willy Demeyer; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Koen Metsu. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u163	Mr President, following the resignation of the President and the First Vice-President of the Standing Commission of the Local Police (CPPL) on 10 December last, the Minister made, in committee, an honourable fine, which is courageous. He acknowledged his lack of attention for the CPPL, the body responsible for representing the interest of local police in our two-tiered police. He undertook to provide precise answers at a general meeting on 14 January, which was a positive signal that led the parties concerned to hold their resignation pending. Unfortunately, we learn that these good commitments by the minister to focus attention on the local component of the integrated police have not stood the test of the facts for a long time. According to my information, these people have decided to keep their resignation. Do we have to understand that your majority is in favour of this model, which is so criticized by local agents and police officers, who deliberately do not listen to the local component and open the doors to a police that moves away from the population? Ladies and gentlemen, this model of police is not that of the Socialist Group. We ask you to respect our integrated policing model. We call for the local police component to be further integrated into the decision-making process. We want a police force close to the population. That is why we are tabling this motion calling on the government to improve the functioning of the Standing Commission of the Local Police by providing it with sufficient resources to prepare and accompany this work. In conclusion, I therefore call on the Minister of the Interior to tackle these problems, on which we will not fail to ask him again in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u164	Thank you, Mr. Demeyer. Colleagues, there is a problem with the voting machine. There's a problem with the voting machine. We cannot vote electronically at the moment. I therefore propose that we vote on the simple motion when we sit down and stand up. I move that we vote by sitting and stand on the simple motion. Otherwise, I'll have to suspend the session. We will try to solve this problem. We're trying to get the machine to work. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u165	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u166	The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u167	These inquiries were developed in a public meeting of the National Defence Commission on January 13, 2016. These interviews were held at the public meeting of the Defence Committee of 13 January 2016. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 097/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr. Alain Top; - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms Julie Fernandez Fernandez and MM. Stéphane Crusnière, Sevastian Pirlot and Éric Thiébaut; - a simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Peter Buysrogge, Richard Miller, Dirk Van Mechelen et Veli Yüksel. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 097/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Alain Top; - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mr Stéphane Crusnière, Mr Sébastian Pirlot and Mr Éric Thiébaut; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Peter Buysrogge, Mr Richard Miller, Mr Dirk Van Mechelen and Mr Veli Yüksel. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u168	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, having already had the opportunity to debate at length this beginning of the draft strategic plan, which has been promised for many months in the Defence Committee, and in order not to unnecessarily prolong today's discussion, you will simply allow me to recall the fifteen main points of the motion for a recommendation tabled by my group, in order to help Minister Vandeput finally draw up a plan that will hold the road, "a long way", as Deputy Prime Minister De Croo would say, "dumb statements heard a few days ago, especially on Patriot missiles". We wish: - ensuring social consultation; - ensuring that Defence remains a regal function; - to ensure a sufficient number of commitments; - to maintain as many tasks as possible within the army, in order to avoid the use of outsourcing; - ensuring a linguistic distribution; - ensuring a balanced geographical distribution of military quarters; - ensuring the necessary means to ensure the international operationality of our army, in particular by keeping a focus on Africa and the so-called three-D approach: Defence, Diplomacy, Development; - ensuring the European dimension of defence in the setting up of a pooling & sharing; - as part of the planned major purchases, focus on strengthening the European defence industry; - ensure, in the absence of a real vision for the future of our army, that all the budgetary impacts of these are not postponed after 2019; - to place Belgium and Defence firmly in the fight for nuclear disarmament, particularly with regard to air nuclear transport capacity; - to ensure in the implementation of the strategic plan that assistance to the Nation remains one of the main defence missions; - guarantee the involvement of the Defence through B-FAST; - ensuring the future of the medical component and the future of the Royal Military Hospital; - Continue to make Defence a major player in youth-oriented memory work and citizenship. I will conclude by paraphrasing this quotation about Michel Chrétien, a French author: "The strategy of Minister Vandeput is to continue shooting to make the opposition believe that he still has ammunition".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u169	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, fifteen months after the coalition agreement, we finally got the strategic plan of defence. The plan and the presentation at last week's committee meeting raise more questions than we received answers. First of all, we continue to wonder how all the investments envisaged will be affordable. A global budget of EUR 9.2 billion is foreseen for the various investment files up to 2030, but if we make a conservative estimate, we believe that this will be well exceeded. That is why our motion calls for the strategic plan to be calculated at least by the Court of Auditors. We also call for the report of the Finance Inspectorate to be sent to the committee. As I said, last week's statement by the Minister raised more questions than answers. Instead of clear and innovative choices, the plan is still under construction. Difficult knots are not being cut and the Minister even said to clarify that certain matters still need to be written out. The Minister again postpones a number of important issues, such as choices about barracks, efforts for European cooperation or the exact impact on staff. For that, we must now wait for the steering plan. The question is therefore whether the Minister's plan will still be implemented in this legislature. We also wonder about the strategic plan. The coalition partners don't remember either. Minister De Croo thought the purchase of patriot missiles was a downright silly idea. The president of CD&V argued that such debates should be based on figures. I also refer to the President of Open Vld, who was no longer able to follow, who wanted to save on social security first and then make unnecessary purchases. It is urgent for the majority to have a final agreement, because staff are also getting impatient. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, this is the time to join this motion in order to gain transparency in this strategic plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u170	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u171	Yes 82 Yes No. [[60]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u172	These inquiries were developed in a public meeting of the Committee on External Relations on 13 January 2016. These interviews were held at the public meeting of the External Relations Commission of 13 January 2016. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 0102/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Dallemagne; - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Messrs. Philippe Blanchart and Stéphane Crusnière; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sarah Claerhout and by Messrs. Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Peter Luykx, Richard Miller and Tim Vandenput. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 0102/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Dallemagne; - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Mr Philippe Blanchart and Mr Stéphane Crusnière; A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sarah Claerhout and Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Peter Luykx, Richard Miller and Tim Vandenput. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u173	Mr President, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has proposed, as part of the work programme of the Diplomatic Days, that our 104 Heads of Post visit Antwerp on Friday, January 29, for a working session with the President of the N-VA. This visit does not seem acceptable to us as the Foreign Minister asks our diplomats to participate in a partisan advertising operation, which is also in favour of a personality that does not hide his will to see our country disappear, and therefore the function of these same diplomats. Moreover, this visit is part of a particularly unpleasant context since the president of the N-VA insists, now more than ever, on his anti-Belgian convictions, but also eurosceptic. This visit disappoints many diplomats who feel that their duty of reservation and impartiality are thus violated. With this motion for a recommendation, my group calls for this visit to be withdrawn from the diplomatic days programme and for an official space to be reserved for representatives of the federated entities on the occasion of the Days in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u174	Mr President, Diplomatic Days are still an important moment, both diplomatically and economically and politically. The contacts made on this occasion must be multiplicity and must cover all areas of the competent authorities in international affairs. When we heard about the program of these Days, we were surprised and wondered. First of all, and this concerns us all, a tradition had been established that our diplomats and parliamentarians had to meet. This allowed us to discuss with them the situation of the countries in which they are stationed, both in terms of parliamentary diplomacy and in the framework of the Inter-Parliamentary Union. Unfortunately, this meeting was no longer planned. Things have changed, and I wanted to thank you, Mr President, and the chairman of the Committee on External Relations, Mr. Van der Maelen, for having responded favourably to our request. We therefore look forward to this meeting. I hope that in the future this contact will be systematically planned. Another subject of inquiry concerns federated entities. Indeed, no official contact was foreseen, while most of the foreign trade expertise was regionalized and, in the past, the interventions of the Ministers-Presidents were integrated into the official part of the Diplomatic Days. However, it was not a failure to ask, since on several occasions, the office of the Walloon Minister-President asked to be able to integrate the official program and to meet with diplomats. We deeply regret this and hope that, from now on, these requests will also be taken into account every year. Our third and final surprise concerns the Minister of Defence. We have also seen that no contact has been scheduled in the context of these Diplomatic Days. While this government is calling for a 3D strategy, we can only be surprised. That is why I have tabled this motion, which calls for the annual presence of federated entities in the official program, for contacts between diplomats and parliamentarians and for the involvement of Ministers of Cooperation and Defence in order to accurately reflect this government's 3D strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u175	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u176	Yes 81 Yes No. 61 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u177	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Chamber unanimously adopts the legislative proposal. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1231/7) Accordingly, the House unanimously adopted the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1231/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u178	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[84]] Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (993/9) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (993/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u179	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[140]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Chamber unanimously adopts the legislative proposal. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (699/15) Accordingly, the House unanimously adopted the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (699/15)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u180	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[140]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (553/7) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (553/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u181	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1439/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1439/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u182	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[80]] Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 1581/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 1581/1 is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-21-54-plenair-ip095x.u183	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the week of 25 January 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sittings of the week of January 25, 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 28 January 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday 28 January 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
