ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u1	I leave it to the government to decide how it will give us the introductory statement. Mr Grosemans and I have agreed that, after the introduction of the government, we will give the floor to colleagues in the order of the size of the political groups, as the tradition would have it in this committee, by a maximum of ten minutes, to be divided into two or three speakers. That is up to the groups themselves. Can everyone agree to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u2	Mr President, there is something not entirely clear to me about the order of business. Can you confirm that there is no resolution or other initiative on the agenda? I'm declaring myself. I think it would be a good thing for the government to ask Parliament for permission before taking part in the military operation in Syria. In recent times, she has always wanted to and could do so through a parliamentary initiative by the majority, a resolution; I am thinking of Iraq in 2014 and Libya in 2011. It is true that we were on-going at the time, but I think it is a good practice to give the government the legitimacy to participate in a war by means of a parliamentary vote. Nothing prevents us from doing the same thing we did in current cases. We're not in business right now, but if we don't, we turn the clock backwards. We can do this perfectly. There is no legislative problem at all. If we do not do so, then we will degrade Parliament to a little bit after a decision already taken by the government. I don't see anything on the agenda. Is there going to be an initiative and course the route or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u3	I propose that we do a round of questions first, because I can see that colleagues still wish to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u4	Mr President, I would like to join in what Mr De Vriendt says. Even within the majority, there was a debate before taking a decision. Since the government has apparently taken the decision itself, I should like to quote from the Committee on Defence's report of 20 April. The Minister replied to several questions from the majority and opposition: "We should take a decision as late as possible and as close as possible to the moment of deployment. I confirm that I will honour my promise to have at least a parliamentary debate before the decision." Minister, this is a literal quote from the committee's report. If the majority fails to table a resolution today, they may, as the Minister says, still have time to submit a resolution which is at least supported by the majority just before 1 July.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u5	Mr President, I am a little surprised at the order of business, because I thought we were going to discuss whether or not we were going to bomb Syria. From what I understand, we're just going to philosopherize the decision, already made, to go bombard in Syria. It was my understanding that a commitment had been made in committee and in plenary today to have a debate prior to that decision. One of my first votes in this Parliament was about going to war. We voted about a year and a half ago to bomb Iraq. I thought it would be the habit in our representative democracy, that Parliament could vote for decisions as important as going to bomb. After that, I was told that I didn't understand. That time was exceptional, because we did not have a government yet and we had to play democracy. But now that we have a government, we don't have to vote until we go bombard. This is a double standard. I am surprised at this development because in other European countries, we are going to give more importance to Parliament for decisions on participation in the war: I am thinking of the debates in 1994 in Germany, 1997 in Austria, 2008 in France, where reforms have aimed to involve Parliament more. In Belgium, our opinion, we don't care; we're just going to bomb. Would it be possible for the government to allow us, in the order of business, to really express our views on the decision to bomb? Could we please play this minimum democracy in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall speak very briefly on what has been said. The decision on the deployment in Syria remains, strictly legally speaking, a government decision. The same is true of Article 167 of the Constitution. The government has exclusive power to expand the mission and to deploy our F-16s in Syria. Apart from that, I think it is important that Parliament is not a player in the margin. Parliament does not need to be a player in the margins either. We are debating here now. In my view, it would be a bad thing if today's debates did not result in anything, because we would indeed take steps back. I think that at the end of our debate we should make recommendations to the government. In that sense, I have a resolution ready. That resolution also goes into more detail on how and why. The resolution therefore does not confine itself to military actions, but also highlights humanitarian actions recommended to the government. After the debate, I would like to deliver the text of my resolution to all of you. In doing so, we can jointly express our support for the government. Then you can also sign the resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u7	Mr President, I would like to point out that two months ago, in plenary, in response to a topical question I addressed to the Prime Minister, it was said that we would have a debate in plenary. I therefore regret that this democratic debate is confined to a committee dedicated to presenting a decision already taken. The only commitment is the Prime Minister's presence. Otherwise, nothing of what had been agreed at previous plenary meetings was respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u8	Mr President, I did not come to revise the Constitution today. I therefore agree with what has just been said by the Chairman of the Defence Committee. I hear some colleagues – Mr Hedebouw or members of Groen – coming to make big statements. But they rely on the fact that for the operations launched in Iraq in September 2014, we were in day-to-day business, as for Libya. There was no obligation to vote on any resolution at the parliamentary level. That's just the rule. It is not a matter of political choice. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u9	Absolutely not. You want to review the Constitution here and now? It's not on the agenda. It is a matter of having the debate as proposed. It is important that Parliament be informed, there is an exchange and a number of questions can be asked, but it is not a question of changing the rule, as the chairman of the Defence Committee reminded us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the decision taken by the government is in accordance with the Constitution and also in accordance with the tradition in that country. It is up to the government to decide on military deployment. The debate we have asked for here is, of course, another matter. Today we can go into more detail about the government's decision. I think that Mr Grosemans' suggestion that we table a joint resolution here after the debate, across opposition and majority limits, is a good suggestion. In this way, we can, firstly, support the government's decision, secondly, create a basis for this decision, once again across the boundaries of majority and opposition and, thirdly, give our concerns to the government in the implementation of this decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u11	I believe that a resolution or political document from our house that confirms and governs the government's decision is not unnecessary. Current affairs have been mentioned, but it appears that this practice has been used voluntarily, in accordance with the democratic debate. To that end, the Chair said that she had tabled a text. I think it doesn't exist yet or in the form of a draft. If I may, I can point out in fluo the paragraphs that are an exact copy-paste of the resolution that Georges Dallemagne and I tabled last December. If we are talking about the tabling of a text to frame the government's decision following this afternoon's debate, I propose that we be able to rely on the CDH text, if only for copyright reasons. I will mention very clearly the paragraphs which are only a pure copy-paste, up to the spelling errors which appeared in the test. There is no doubt about the need to frame our debates by voting on a resolution. Objectively, this is not a violation of the Constitution. We know it's not mandatory. However, in such sensitive cases, it is important to respect the parliamentary institution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u12	Mr President, it is indisputable that Article 167 of the Constitution gives the government an exclusive prerogative at this stage to decide to enter war, that is true. However, as my colleague De Vriendt pointed out, the practice in the House has changed recently. Traditionally, the existence of governments in day-to-day affairs meant that, from now on, entry into war would be a decision that would be debated and then voted by a large majority in the House. By acting as it does right now, that is, by having already taken the decision before a committee meeting was convened, in order to avoid any debate, the government lacks tact, respect and simply loyalty, since the Prime Minister had made a commitment in plenary session; that is not nothing. In addition, this concerns a serious fact in so far as it is a question of entering into war. The security of our military is at stake. Moreover, as we have seen since the attacks in Brussels, the whole population is concerned. Mr. De Vriendt and I have filed an application to amend the Constitution to change section 167 in order to allow the House to rule on the entry into war before a government decision is taken. However, this article is not open for revision. Can we get a commitment from the three ministers present to at least reflect on the fact that section 167, when the government decides to fall – as late as possible, since that is what this is about – is on this list?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u13	Thank you, colleague. I leave the concern to the government to answer the questions that have been asked. I just want to say that we cannot discuss a resolution today. That's not on the agenda. A resolution must be considered first and can then be placed on the agenda of a committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u14	Mr President, what you are saying is quite correct. Mrs Grosemans, I would like to consider a resolution to reach a consensus with the government, the majority and the opposition. You say you already have a text. We have not yet seen that text. Allow me to put your initiative beyond the limits of majority and opposition. If you have a text ready, you are going to submit it and so on, and today is the debate. It is true, Mr Ducarme, that the Constitution does not oblige the government to consult Parliament, but the Constitution does not prohibit the government from consulting Parliament. In 2011 and 2014, the government has been wise enough to do so through the detour of the resolution tabled by the majority groups. There is nothing that prevents the majority from doing the same. This debate is of an unbearable non-committal nature if it does not. I would like to ask my fellow Members from the majority to think. If you do not, you will by definition become the slippers of this government. We're going to war here. That's not nothing. We're turning back the clock. Away with good practice from 2011 and 2014. We are apparently going back to an era in which the government unilaterally decides to go to war, for which Parliament does not consult and then neither does it. So what are we doing? We're turning back the clock. We can do this differently. I find it incomprehensible that members of the majority do not realize this themselves and need the opposition to bring it to their senses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u15	Mr De Vriendt, I have a draft prepared. I suggest that we learn from this debate. Comments can still be made on this version. Now that's democracy. I could have just filed this, and then I would have put you out of business, but I would like to find a basis for majority support and opposition together. That's why it's a draft. Surely you can agree with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u16	The decision's already been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u17	That is in line with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u18	Mr Pirlot has asked for the floor. I propose that we conclude this debate within a few minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u19	I would like to make two brief points. We talked about Parliament's involvement in day-to-day affairs. I would like to recall that the resolution on the situation in Mali, which was adopted by the House on 17 January 2013, was forgotten, reflecting the clear will of the then full-exercise government to consult us in a strict framework, while respecting the essential need for flexibility and the urgency inherent in such a decision. There is indeed the Constitution, but there is also the parliamentary tradition. I note that we are going back to the parliamentary tradition and I find it a bit odd that a resolution has already been prepared by the majority and that some parties have it. For my part, I have no knowledge of this motion for a resolution. I will not play in a parody of democracy and a parody of parliamentary information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u20	Mr President, I do not think we should give too much work to Mrs Grosemans, who has announced changes to her own text. The text exists and it is simply transferred to a project whose test has been submitted to us for co-signature. I think it would have been more elegant on the part of the majority simply to recognize that the text that, I would remind you, was tabled in December 2015 was a text that was to serve as a basis, to be amended, to be improved. And I find ridiculous the exercise that the majority is doing, i.e. a balancing exercise while constructive texts are on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u21	I now give the floor to the last speaker in this previous debate. Let's not waste our time continuing to circle around. The Rules of Procedure are clear in this respect: as long as there is no absolute consensus at the end of a debate, a resolution or text cannot be put on the agenda. We will therefore have to resume this debate at a later stage. If anyone takes an initiative, be it the majority or the opposition, we will debate the text that will be tabled. Mr Hedebouw is the last speaker. Secondly, I propose to give the floor to the government for the exchange of views.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u22	Mr President, we learn that a pre-resolution would circulate. This one wasn't submitted to the PTB, but we probably don't have the hope of convincing us that going to shave homes in Syria will solve anything. The only thing I want to say is that I find it very serious that, in fact, the information, the decision to go bombard in Syria has already been communicated to the US State Department. So not only is there a democratic problem in parliament, but I also see that even foreign services, other states, have priority over parliament. And I don't think that's right! It's not okay. We had a commission last week where, in fact, high authorities of the American army came to communicate that we are part of the scheme, whereas we have not even had a debate here yet. If we had a minimum of respect for this Parliament, we would first have had the debate here, followed by a vote and possibly a communication of the decision to other international bodies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u23	Everyone has had the opportunity to express their opinion. I'm just sorry I couldn't do that myself. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister and the members of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u24	Mr President, we have listened carefully to the various interventions on the modalities. I shall touch on a few points on this subject before I turn to the substantive issue, which I hope will be discussed today. Several have said that it is the Constitution that organizes the decision-making process and the legal training of the latter. The government decides and informs Parliament without delay. We want to do that. Nevertheless, I would like to make some additional comments on the subject. We have ensured that this decision is taken long enough before the operations start, so that we can have the parliamentary debate very quickly, which is being done today. You will find that, in the legal reasons used to base this decision, we must activate, for example for Article 51, the Charter of the United Nations. The United Nations requires us to address to them the motivations from which we activate this article. Of course, this mail hasn't left yet. Finally, I note above all, even if the Constitution does not oblige us to do so, that the debate is taking place in Parliament long before the operation is launched in July. This is not a situation, as has been the case, certainly in day-to-day affairs, where the planes were already on their way when the debate was not yet closed. We take this into account, which we believe is legitimate. Finally, it goes without saying that it is up to Parliament's freedom to determine that a resolution can be discussed, with a majority and opposition, on such a subject, in order to express political support. But there is another method, the traditional method: Parliament constantly controls the government and motions of trust and distrust are there to verify that political support is present in the government's action and decisions. Whether it is through a resolution that would be discussed between the majority and the opposition, since Parliament has the freedom to exercise motions of trust or mistrust, or otherwise, political support on the subject is also essential for the government to act on the matter. Here are some elements, not to revive or complicate the debate, but simply to say that we have listened and heard what has been said on the subject. We have tried, in accordance with the Constitution and that of Parliament, to find the way. I propose that we now deal with the substance of the matter in order to enable me, in accordance with the Constitution, to inform as properly as possible, and then to have an exchange of views with parliamentarians. It will enable us to respond to questions, comments or criticisms that may arise on the subject. On Friday 13 May, the government decided to review our country's commitment to Iraq and Syria. As I have committed myself to this commitment, I know that there can still be an in-depth debate in Parliament, and this united committee seems to me an ideal place for that. The evolution of our contribution consists of three aspects which are inextricably linked. Development cooperation, the political process and the armed intervention in support of the coalition against IS. These three aspects are inextricably linked because none of them can support only peace and democracy in Syria. In this respect, we must learn lessons from the intervention of the international community in Libya, where the absence of a political process has thrown the country into chaos. ISIS poses a complex threat. It is not just a threat to our security, but also to our way of life and our fundamental freedoms. IS stands for terror, violent extremism, the arbitrary and inhumane treatment of people and the systematic violation of human rights. The military strategy to reclaim areas under the authority of IS would therefore not suffice. A more global strategy is also needed to keep them in the long term. We believe that this strategy should be based on common action and shared responsibility. Each country within the coalition must thus carry out its part of the actions on the ground on the following points: firstly, military action against IS; secondly, the fight against the financing of IS; thirdly, support for citizens seriously affected by the situation in Syria and Iraq who were forced to move within their country or elsewhere; fourthly, efforts to stabilise the liberated zone so that citizens can live a normal life again; and finally, the cessation of recruitment flows from abroad. Finally, this strategy will only be effective if it is accompanied by a strong political will that takes into account the underlying political and economic causes of the situation. The next important point for us is the 3D-LO approach, which stands for Defense, Diplomacy, Development, Law and Order. At the Paris Conference of 15 September 2014, some 30 countries committed themselves to supporting Iraqi demand to cope with the destabilisation of the region through the land-use gains of IS. Today, more than 60 countries and international organisations have joined forces to fight terror and IS within the international coalition. On 26 September 2014, under a government of ongoing cases, Parliament approved the deployment of a detachment of six F-16 people and some 120 soldiers in Iraq for a period of one month. This commitment was subsequently extended three times by the Government on 23 October 2014, on 7 November 2014 and on 14 December 2014, in accordance with Article 167 of the Constitution. As you know, the mission of our F-16s ended at the end of June 2015. Nevertheless, cooperation has been established with the Netherlands to ensure alternation. The Netherlands is currently extending its presence with 8 F-16 until the end of June 2016 and Belgium is providing a presence with a detachment of protection forces (25 military) for the benefit of the Netherlands. On 10 February 2016 the Netherlands informed the President of the UN Security Council of the extension of their F-16 mission to Syria. They invoke the UN resolution adopted and the use of Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations, which establishes self-defence. It is within the framework of this cooperation that Belgium will resume the F-16 mission from July 2016 to June 2017, with a detachment of Dutch protection forces. Belgium's commitment to fighting IS in Iraq and Syria is based on the resolution adopted by the UN Security Council on 20 November 2015. This resolution calls on all Member States able to fight against Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant, also known as Daesh. The resolution, proposed by France, was adopted unanimously by 15 members of the Council. Every word of this resolution must be carefully considered. The resolution "calls upon those States that have the capacity to do so to take all necessary measures in the territory under ISIL control, also known as Daesh, Syria and Iraq, to redouble their efforts and coordinate their efforts to prevent and put an end to the terrorist acts committed in particular by this group as well as by the Al-Nosra Front and all other individuals, groups, undertakings and entities associated with Al-Qaeda". This resolution also calls on them to "eliminate the sanctuary that they have created in a large part of the territories of Iraq and Syria". It urges Member States to "intensify their efforts to stem the flow of foreign terrorist fighters to Iraq and Syria, and to eliminate the financing of terrorism". The Security Council resolution was not adopted on the basis of Chapter 7 of the Charter of the United Nations, which refers to action in the event of a threat to peace, a breach of the peace and acts of aggression, but is based on the finding that Daesh poses a threat to international peace and security. For IS, Iraq and Syria are only one of the many areas where they move freely. Iraq is regularly the victim of armed attacks on Syrian territory. The operations of the terrorist group in Iraq are organised and supplied from Raqqa and Deir ez-Zor. It is also in Deir ez-Zor that IS took a hospital four days ago. In this context, the Government considered that the conditions were met to extend its military actions on the basis of Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations, which confirms the right to individual or collective self-defense. In the case of Belgium, the natural right of collective self-defence is before the court. Belgium's commitment to Iraq and Syria to the fight against Daesh is therefore based on the Security Council resolution I have just mentioned. Our participation responds to the call of the international coalition. In accordance with article 51, the measures taken by Belgium in the exercise of this right of self-defence will be brought to the attention of the Security Council. For the time being, the anti-ISIL coalition includes Germany, France, Spain, the Netherlands, Norway, the United Kingdom, the United States, Jordan, to name but a few. After the attacks in Paris, a number of countries decided to participate in the air attacks over Syria: France, Great Britain, the Netherlands, Denmark. Some partners have increased their contribution to the fight against Daesh and removed existing restrictions. To cite a few examples, the Danish special forces can be engaged both in Iraq and in Syria. Norwegian special forces are likely to provide training from Jordan to Syrian elements. Even Sweden has decided to support France with military contributions that can be committed in Iraq and Syria. As I have said, it is our responsibility as Europeans to show solidarity and to ensure security in our country and beyond our borders. The pressure of the international coalition must be maintained. It's a long-term work, but it's already paying off. For example, IS has lost almost 44% of the territory it once owned in Iraq. Another example, the monthly income of IS has suffered a loss of 30% compared to 2015. Even though it will take a while, IS is losing ground, commanders and part of its funding. Finally, to conclude the Defence aspect, the Council of Ministers of 27 February 2015 reached an agreement on the deployment of Belgian military in the framework of a training mission in Iraq, on top of the F-16's, so only training building partner capacity. The detachment, consisting of twenty-five trainers, commandos and staff elements, was an additional Belgian contribution to the efforts of the international coalition in the fight against terrorism in Iraq. Our military have started their mission in early March 2015. No one can deny, I believe, that it is essential for Iraq to have reliable and trained military forces in the long term that can guarantee its sovereignty over its entire territory. In accordance with the coalition's assessment and request, the government agreed on the evolution of the mandate of the Belgian instructors' engagement in Baghdad, to allow them to work, within the framework of the International Coalition's "Advise and Assist" programme, from other places in Iraq. In this context, they will not participate directly in the fighting. I now come to diplomacy. The geopolitical and political situation in Syria is obviously extremely complex. It's not just one conflict, it's a lot of conflict. First, it is a conflict between Bashar al-Assad's regime and the Syrian opposition. It has been accompanied by a struggle against Daesh and other terrorist groups that have taken advantage of the situation to conquer territories, but it is also characterized by religious and regional divisions. Moreover, it is also a conflict with dimensions that transcend Syria's borders. I am thinking of the many regional and international actors who, directly or indirectly, are involved in this situation. Democracy in Syria must be built. There must be a government that reflects all the elements of Syrian society. That is the objective of the Geneva negotiations, led by the UN Special Envoy Staffan de Mistura. These negotiations are long and difficult. Only yesterday, the International Syria Support Group met in Vienna to relaunch the talks between the opposition and the Bashar al-Assad regime. Belgium supports the work of Staffan de Mistura. We will confirm our confidence and support in him. The leaders of the region will have to find the means and solutions to bring stability within their national borders and between states. The international community, the various coalition countries and, in particular, the United Nations can support and facilitate the process. Of course, the key to solutions and agreements is first and foremost in the hands of the countries of the region, the communities and their leaders. Respect for the cessation of hostilities in Aleppo and its extension to all Syrian territory is the road to peace and dialogue. Belgium wants to support the construction of socio-economically resilient societies capable of generating jobs and livelihoods and enabling the return of displaced persons. We are multiplying diplomatic meetings in this direction. Today we had the opportunity to speak with the King of Jordan. We are in regular contact with Staffan de Mistura and coalition partners. We talk about it at all our bilateral meetings. The situation in Syria and Iraq is practically the subject of discussions at each European Council or Foreign Affairs Council. Finally, I come to the last part, just as important as the previous two: development cooperation and humanitarian aid. As we repeat, a military solution is useless if we do not tackle in parallel the root causes and reconstruction of Syria and Iraq. Without hope for a better life, there will be no lasting peace. Within the European Union, our country wants to play an important role in supporting peace in the region, with various instruments including humanitarian aid and development cooperation. I quote a few figures quickly. In 2015, it was EUR 51.6 million that was released in the context of the regional crisis in Syria and Iraq, not to mention our contributions in European budgets that support these efforts. At the donors' conference in London on 4 February, I promised, on behalf of the Belgian government, an additional €75 million for 2016 and 2017. In these amounts, the Belgian contribution to the European Union's efforts to support Syrian refugees is not included. Our humanitarian aid must mainly go to Syrian refugees, whether in Lebanon, Jordan or Turkey. We must support them in those host countries. In conclusion, we have the will to remain a loyal partner, a reliable partner, to fully assume our responsibilities. We are well aware that in recent years the world around us has changed, certainly at the southern borders of Europe. We are well aware that stability, security, peace and development at Europe's external borders are an extremely important issue in working in the short, medium and long term to ensure our own stability, security, our own ability to meet the challenges we collectively face today and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u25	As agreed, I now give the floor to the colleague of the N-VA. The whole group gets ten minutes. Divide your speaking time, we will keep it. You have the floor, Mr De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u26	We shall indeed allocate our speaking time, Mr President. I am surprised that today the opposition discovers what the law and the Constitution determine. Having said that, we would not have minded if we could have had this debate before the government's decision was taken. We believe, however, that this does not affect the content of the statements. I welcome your statement, Prime Minister, because you have made it clear that the military solution, isolated from the rest, is obviously not the choice we are making. It cannot be denied that the military efforts that have been made so far, for example, you have pointed out that the advance of IS or Daesh, which until recently seemed unstoppable, was not only stopped by military means, but also reduced by military means, are part of what we are aiming for. Syria, by the way, is a good example, or rather a bad example, which shows that, although intervention is not always, and certainly not in all circumstances, the best option, but it does not intervene at all. We have for a very long time shown restraint in Syria which has not translated into positive effects. I hope that this will prove to be the case again today, and that this principle may receive very broad support in this House. That's pretty obvious. Prime Minister, we can only welcome what you have said about a series of shutters that need to be opened. I would like to take this opportunity to stress it strongly. Last week we had the pleasure of meeting Mr McGurk, a high-ranking man in the Defence Committee, on this matter. It stressed the importance of effective humanitarian action in those areas, from the moment those areas have been freed from foot-and-mouth disease. I am pleased to note that the Americans also attach great priority to this. Mr McGurk also pointed out that humanitarian assistance in ISIS-occupied areas is absolutely impossible. There have been attempts, but they have been stopped. This means that every millimeter that we can gain at IS, in a way, opens up opportunities to provide important humanitarian support to people who have to live in particularly deplorable circumstances today. I can therefore only hope that the government's decision will allow more and more people to provide humanitarian aid that we cannot bring to them today. I would also like to point out that we received a delegation from people from the Kurdish region of Rojava here last week or two weeks ago. They have explicitly called for political support, but they have also made the offer to bring humanitarian aid to people who could benefit from it in the most meaningful way. After all, the ways of bringing humanitarian aid from Brussels or from Europe to the people after we have made military progress are not very obvious either. I hope, therefore, that the government will take advantage of the offer made by the Kurdish groups from Rojava in a positive way. In order to remain within the five minutes I have allocated myself, I would simply like to conclude by saying that, after the decision to act in a military capacity, we must continue to discuss with the allies here in committee what should happen after ISIS. After all, cleaning up IS is, of course, only part of the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u27	I would now like to give the floor to the members of the PS. Who's taking the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u28	Prime Minister, we finally got this joint meeting, almost two months after you promised us in plenary. We also asked for the presence of the Minister for Development Cooperation, since the government was finally to present to us its comprehensive approach, called 3D (defence, diplomacy and development) in the fight against Daesh, on which we particularly insist. This joint meeting of our committees was, of course, essential, but very late, because it once again puts us before the fait accompli. The government is therefore only coming today to present us with a formal decision already taken, of which it informed the press before this assembly. So what is Parliament still for? For the PS Group, the Belgian response cannot be given to the rush and requires consultation with Parliament. We remember the statements made last September by Minister Vandeput who had shown his readiness to send troops to Syria on the ground, or by the N-VA group leader wishing to intervene in Libya. While it is true that the entry into war does not come constitutionally to Parliament in Belgium, it is essential that the House be consulted and not only informed, as is the case here. I have already spoken to you, as proof to the contrary, of the resolution concerning the situation in Mali, which was adopted by the House on 13 January 2013 in the framework of a full-fledged government. It must therefore be noted that the government has decided to break with this parliamentary custom. We can therefore only take note of the decision taken last week by the government to extend to Syria, and not only to Iraq, the mandate of our F-16s engaged in the fight against Daesh. This reply to be given by 1 July, when the Belgian hunters will take over the Dutch aircraft, a calm debate in Parliament could have taken place in advance. You have decided otherwise; either. On the substance, of course, we are not mistaken in our debate. It is a matter of all means being used in this fight against terrorism and against Daesh, including at the military level, but not only. While the use of force is still a failure for diplomacy, we are faced with terrorists killing in the name of mad, blind and borderless religious radicalism. It is in this sense that our group has supported and continues to support our military intervention, via our F-16s, in Iraq, which is set out in a clear framework in the House Resolution of September 2014. Indeed, European solidarity in the fight against terrorism and against Daesh is essential, as is regional involvement. This intervention has made it possible to bring down several jihadist bastions and must continue with Belgian participation, in particular within an already defined framework. I would therefore like once again to commend the work of our military, whose expertise is recognized by all, in the international coalition against Daesh. At the political level internal to Iraq, all efforts must be continued to ensure that the Iraqi government is as inclusive as possible beyond its communities and to restore its authority throughout its territory. However, if, in the face of such a group, it is not time for inaction or abstention, international military action in Belgium cannot take place in the denial of international law. Belgium is a rule of law and must remain so. For us, such an intervention cannot be made outside an explicit UN framework that has been absent so far, contrary to what prevails in Iraq. Indeed, our Assembly's resolution clearly stated in recital H 3 clear conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, none of the conditions for such intervention in Syria have been met by Belgium. I challenge anyone to find me a line in a UN resolution giving the green light to such strikes in Syria. My colleague Stéphane Crusnière and I have asked in turn the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of National Defence about the UN framework that would allow Belgium to intervene in Syria. We have received no similar response from the government, except that Minister Reynders has made it clear to us that UN Resolution 2249 has not been adopted on the basis of Chapter 7 of the UN Charter. In other words, it does not allow such strikes in Syria. Your argument in article 51 is an extremely dangerous precedent because when you quoted the text, you omitted four words since it is stipulated that it should be "in accordance with international law". Beyond the essential aspects of international humanitarian law, militarily Syria is not Iraq. The air combat conditions there are much more delicate. This is evidenced by the congestion of the airspace where nearly 100 combat aircraft are permanently active. And I'm not even talking about the situation on the ground. Therefore, ministers, how can such an extension of our military intervention be made possible in practice, when there is no United Nations mandate. In this context, how will the Belgian army define the targets of such strikes? Will we work with the Assad regime to determine the Belgian targets? What will be the exact nature of Belgian participation in the coalition from 1 July? Will there be Belgian soldiers on the ground in Iraq and Syria? Based on what risk profile and budget? How can we continue our humanitarian assistance in this context? For the PS group, in the absence of a clear UN framework for Syria, no solid international legitimacy can be found and one cannot imagine negotiating such strikes with the murderous regime of Assad whose impunity cannot be negotiated. As you will have understood, the PS group continues to support participation in the international coalition against Daesh in Iraq and any diplomatic, humanitarian and military action that respects international law. Here, we have the feeling that we are headed down only on the military level in Syria, while diplomatic and multilateral efforts should still be made. We have a real concern with respect to respect for international law, as I have just explained. I would like to conclude with two essential reflections. On the one hand, I wonder about the behaviour of this government towards the greatest wealth of our Belgian army: these women and men who participate in operations abroad. How will you continue to pull the rope in this way without fearing at a time when it breaks? How can such a risky mission be carried out in Syria, under the current conditions where training is no longer guaranteed, as the military are mobilized and have become good at everything and all the time? How are you going to fund such a mission when the Defence budget is in dungeon as a result of the cuts you have decided on? How are you going to find enough motivated human resources when commitments have never been so low? On the other hand, and that is the essence, let us recall that the reaction of our country and the international community to jihadists around the world and to such crises cannot be exclusively military. It is for this reason that we have asked for the presence of Ministers Reynders and De Croo every time we resume. More than ever before, we must be part of any initiative aimed at helping the populations affected by these abuses, both humanitarianly and politically and socio-economically, in Iraq, Syria and, of course, in the neighbouring countries that are hosting the most refugees fleeing barbarism. Diplomacy will be the only response in the medium and long term. No airstrike in the world, however precise it may be, will be an indispensable political and diplomatic resolution for post-Assad. This post-Assad obviously cannot go through him. His crimes, as well as those of Daesh, cannot remain unpunished by international justice. This decision by the government must also lead to a reflection on the fight against radicalism and terrorism within our country and the European Union. The Parliamentary Committee will also have to draw conclusions, including on the impact of foreign policies on this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, Belgium must play its part in international security. But this military responsibility we take goes hand in hand with a heavy diplomatic-political responsibility to do everything possible to stabilize the region. We must learn from the many mistakes made during the George W. Bush era. The remedy cannot be worse than evil and no bomb, however precise, can in itself put an end to radicalism and fanaticism in a lasting way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u29	Mr Pirlot, you have just counted one minute and 40 seconds left for your colleague. I assume that Mr Ducarme is asking for the floor for the MR.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u30	Mr President, after hearing from the Socialist Party, I am really surprised at your group's reluctance to extend the strikes to Syria when we know the results of the strikes today: reducing Iraq's territories by 44% and 16% on Syria. I am surprised that you do not support the government that is informing us today of its decision. From our point of view, it is essential to continue what we started in Iraq; obviously in a very clear legal way. As the Prime Minister said, the extension of the intervention to Syria is justified through Article 51 of the UN Charter, collective self-defence. The right to collective defence is itself further strengthened by Security Council resolution 22/49, adopted in November 2015, which called on all countries to contribute to the intensification of the fight against Daesh, al-Nusra and associated terrorist groups to eliminate refuges in Iraq and Syria. In our view, the decision taken by the government is essential. It is legally clear. This is the one chosen by the Netherlands to intervene on Syria. It is also clear that this is still the issue of accountability in all difficult cases. The question of responsibility is whether we're going to let others do the hard work for their own safety. It is about being an actor, being responsible and not leaving to others the fact of paying and committing for our safety. That is why the government's decision is responsible, contrary to what some have said, almost by show – we expected it when we arrived. But yes the rules are respected, yes the Constitution is respected and yes, unlike September 2014, the resolution will not be voted on when the planes have already taken off. It was Parliament's respect to vote on the resolution after the planes took off? Here, we have until July 1st if we want to have this debate. I think it will take place and the proposal made by the chairman of the Defence Committee is a proposal that is being held. If we wish, we will have debates in Parliament, in committee or in plenary. No one is closed to that. We are very focused and quite determined on the clarity of the legality of our responsible commitment and other extremely important parts of our policy in relation to this intervention. It is not a question of making less diplomatic commitments, it has been pointed out. It is well known that regional, international actors, who sometimes experience strong antagonisms, need to work together, need to find a number of common paths to avoid other problems. It is clear that diplomacy, as the political axis was presented to us by the Prime Minister, is important. I appreciated what was said by the N-VA group leader. In your speech, you focused on humanitarianism. The intensity of the humanitarian tragedy experienced by millions of refugees fleeing to Europe, Lebanon and Jordan cannot be ignored. Prime Minister, the King of Jordan was here today, no doubt you were able to mention this situation. We know how committed you have been to ensuring that, in terms of development aid, they can have strong European aid for refugees. It is clear that we must also have humanitarian action at the heart of our strategy and return those people who have fled Syria or Iraq, the peaceful region they want. This intervention is therefore also part of this. Mr President, here are some points that I wanted to highlight pending the rich debate that we are likely to have by 1 July.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u31	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I believe there are many reasons to justify military intervention in Syria. Let us look at the international context, the situation in Iraq and Syria, the attacks worldwide and the attacks in our country on 22 March. Unfortunately, in our country, two attacks were committed with 32 deaths and dozens of injuries. This cowardly terror attack was claimed by IS. For us, that is an important reason and an important fact. A coalition of Western and Arab countries, including our country, has been actively involved in the fight against Daesh in Iraq since October 2014. Belgium sent F-16 pawns to Iraq to target ISIS targets in Iraq from October 2014 to June 2015 in support of the Iraqi army. Colleagues, Daesh does not look at borders. Daesh is not concerned with whether they are in Iraq or Syria. That is why it is important that we fight IS wherever we can. Of course, we must respect international rules. However, watching is not an option, ladies and gentlemen, of the opposition. For my group, it is also important that we restore stability in Syria and Iraq. This also requires other efforts than military ones. Without a military strategy against IS, a lasting political solution is impossible and impossible. We want a multifaceted approach. On the one hand, there must be a military approach and strategy, on the other hand, we must give our full support to a diplomatic, political and humanitarian breakthrough in Iraq and Syria. We therefore call on the Foreign Minister to do more at international level than is the case today. At European level, more needs to be done to make the European voice heard. Our group is pleased that the government's decision is in line with international law. It is based on Article 51 of the Charter and UN Security Council Resolution 2249. We are also pleased that the deployment of our F-16s will be limited to parts of Syria controlled by IS and other terrorist groups. I would like to underline that, ladies and gentlemen. That's important not to have civil casualties, civilian casualties. For Iraq, too, our military will operate alongside Baghdad from other secure locations. They will not participate in battles in the front. We also call for attention to be paid to the humanitarian aspects of this conflict. I have some questions for the Prime Minister, for the Minister of Defence and for the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I'll start with my questions for the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, what guarantees are there to avoid civilian casualties on the ground? Does this decision have an impact on the threat level for our country? Prime Minister, you have drawn a great deal of attention to the diplomatic efforts and the political process or the political strategy. We also consider that to be incredibly important. The EU High Representative, Ms Mogherini, is taking part in talks on Syria. Foreign Minister, what role can the EU, can our country play in these talks? The International Syria Support Group called to start airdrops of food and medicine in Syria from 1 June. Will Belgium participate in this? Will this be looked at? What clear strategy will our country follow on the humanitarian aspects of this conflict? What additional budgets will be allocated for the refugees for 2016 and 2017? I come to my final questions for the Secretary of Defense. In the media, we have read that the Dutch F-16s have not been able to participate in missions over Syria due to problems with their on-board radioisotopes. How can we solve that problem? Will our F-16s receive support or will they not be able to be deployed in Syria, just like the Dutch F-16s? Finally, as far as our trainers outside Baghdad are concerned, is it already clear in which region our ground troops will assist the Iraqi troops?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u32	Mr President, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, thank you very much for being here today to provide us with information. This meeting is essential for our group. Such decisions cannot take place without a comprehensive and thorough parliamentary debate. As was requested several times in plenary by my group, we would have preferred to have done so before the government's decision fell. Having said that, I would prefer to talk today about the content. The deployment of our F-16s alone will not solve the situation in Syria. You have also confirmed that, Prime Minister. We are also in favour of a comprehensive 3D approach. At the same time, we believe that we need to work hard for a diplomatic solution and also to draw up a plan for humanitarian aid to help the Syrian people. My question is twofold. Are there any concrete plans at international level? Can we hold a separate committee meeting with the Minister responsible in order to have more access to this? At the same time, however, we must recognise that, in addition to the diplomatic and humanitarian aspects, it is still necessary to defeat IS militarily. With these terrorists who commit crimes against humanity on a daily basis and violate human rights, we simply cannot negotiate. Even if military intervention is not the solution to the problem, it will certainly be part of the solution. If we can contribute to this by extending the mandate of our F-16ants to areas under IS control in Syria, then we must not miss that opportunity. We see that the Netherlands and the United Kingdom are not making any effective air strikes on Syrian territory. However, this is not an argument for us not to extend the Belgian mandate. After all, it gives us the opportunity to launch air strikes on targets on Syrian territory if the right conditions, the right rules or commitment are present. Even if we could only make a limited number of air strikes under this new mandate, that could mean an important blow to defeat IS. It is a good thing that our F-16s have only been given a limited geographical mandate. If we want to stay in line with international law, we cannot simply operate across Syrian territory. So we need to focus on shutting down the supply lines of IS from Syria to Iraq and hitting IS logistically and financially. It is important that we continue to maintain our strict rules of engagement such as the red card holder and thus avoid civilian casualties. We often hear, ladies and gentlemen, that 40 000 bombs in Syria and Iraq have still not been brought to their knees. I think this is a very punitive statement which does not show any knowledge of the scale of the decline in the area under control of IS and the financial weakening of the organisation on which most experts agree. Perhaps the ministers could give some more information on this today and outline the impact of the military actions of the international coalition on IS? The Pentagon published recent figures on it yesterday. It is also important that we not only free the areas from IS oppression, but also that the inhabitants of these areas are convinced that whatever it will be, the new authority will be an effective improvement. Given the horrific acts on the population by IS, this is a challenge for the international community. Could you please explain how we will focus on convincing the hearts and minds of the local population? Finally, I have a number of military questions for the Minister of Defence. Minister, how can the Belgian Air Force contribute specifically to the international coalition in Syria? We have often heard in the past that the expertise of our pilots is highly appreciated internationally. Could you be more specific about this? What lessons have we or the Dutch learned from the Has this also been discussed with our Dutch fellow Members? Finally, through a parliamentary question, I once informed about the risk analysis. You said that risk analysis would be carried out and that the government would decide afterwards. Can you share the chalk lines of the risk analysis here? Will risk analysis be adjusted if new elements arise between now and 1 July?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u33	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear: IS must be eliminated, including military ones. But only bombing will not provide a solution. I would therefore like to refer to the situation in Syria at the moment. That country is currently a wasp's nest, as you have just indicated, Prime Minister. In Syria, IS has benefited from years of frustration within the Sunni community that originate in the regime's discrimination against that community. If we managed to expel ISIS, that frustration would not be gone yet. It used to be Qaeda, now ISIS. Then what monster will stand up from the rubble in Syria? So, your explanation of a 3D approach and a global plan doesn't convince me today. Belgium can make a contribution, but the question is whether it is now the most useful one. We have not yet received very specific answers or proposals here. What added value will our Belgian aircraft have in Syria, for example? Will they be able to work enough in Syria? I refer in this respect to the Dutch F-16. They can only carry out attacks in Syria to a very limited extent due to communication problems. Britain's aircraft also carried out only four attacks from mid-March to mid-April. My next question was asked by a number of fellow Members. Where exactly above Syria are these planes deployed? Are we also working with a geographical limitation in eastern Syria? How will the target selection happen? How can we avoid civilian casualties? After all, how can we prevent our actions from benefiting the Assad regime? The negotiations are very difficult, as has been said. At the moment there is no idea at all what the post-Assad era will bring us. Who are we going to work with in Syria to defeat ISIS decisively? In order to avoid civilian casualties, air operations must be accompanied by efforts by reliable partners on the ground. The question is whether there are, and to a sufficient extent. Then I come to my second point, something which has not yet been explained or which has not yet been asked: our own security problems. The threat level in Belgium remains high at present. Participation in the air attacks on IS in Syria could further strengthen Belgium's profile, and thus the threat against Belgium and our foreign interests. IS has repeatedly called for attacks against the countries participating in the anti-IS coalition. On 22 March this also became a very painful reality. Over the past few days, tweets of IS supporters have already appeared threatening our country. More Western bombs are threatening to become the perfect propaganda material for IS. My question is very specific: how is the impact of the expansion of our participation in the IS coalition assessed on our internal security? Finally, I come back to the role of Parliament and your response to it. I have just quoted Minister Vandeput. There were also comments from my fellow Members from the majority on questions in plenary. Now you're suddenly taking a completely different turn. Now you say you want to decide quickly to give the Chamber a chance to debate it. As far as I'm concerned, those are figs after Easter. Mr Vandeput's promise did not last. The democratic importance of the Chamber, both of the majority and of the opposition, is being laughed away again. My final question is about transparency. A recent study by Airewars shows that Belgium is the least transparent member of the international coalition after Bahrain. For example, no information is released on dates of actions, ammunition use or locations. Only occasionally reports are made behind closed doors. In other countries there is much more transparency about missions. It therefore seems logical to us that we should receive at least the same information as the information that other countries, organisations and citizens are seeing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think there is only one question behind this debate and that is how we should stop IS. It is clear that we must take out IS. The unwavering cruelty of that terrorist group extends far beyond the borders of Iraq, Syria, Libya. Unfortunately, on 22 March, we had to establish this in our own country. The fight against IS will certainly be military, but let us think of Afghanistan and Libya and ask ourselves whether these Western bomb campaigns over the past 15 years have brought peace and stability there. Quite the contrary. This is also a reality for which we must not remain blind. Yet our government has decided to drop bombs in Syria now. Throwing bombs is actually the easy way out. There's little chance of Belgian body bags. Diplomatic we score points. There is no problem with budgeting either, because we are actually already active over Iraq. However, can bombs disable IS? It is very naive to think that, because the 40 000 bombs and missiles that we have been firing at ISIS since August 2014 have not been able to eliminate that terrorist group so far. So much more is needed than that, but the problem is that we hear far too little about this for our country. More than that, I fear that extending that Western military operation to Syria also entails a number of risks. I'll give you three. First of all, let's look beyond our noses. It is not only our responsibility to take out IS, but it is also our responsibility to ensure that within five years there is not another IS and that IS, the Muslim radicalism, violent terror, does not invent itself over and over again. The best breeding ground for Muslim radicalism and Muslim violence in the region is that idea of a western crusade. We have seen this in Afghanistan and Libya. Secondly, let us not destroy the fragile diplomatic progress that has been made. What will be the reaction of the Russians if we extend that Western military operation now? I think it would be much more sensible to take coordinated action with all those involved in the Middle East. We must therefore isolate the Assad regime. We must try to separate Russia from the Assad regime. We can only do this if we also bear in mind Russian interests in the region and Russia. The third risk revolves around the question of whose air force we really are. Don't we threaten to be Assad's Air Force? After all, if we bomb IS, while the Kurds are not adequately supported in the ground war they are conducting against IS, do we not simply threaten to create more space for Assad's army? We have no ground troops on the scene. What can we do? I mention a number of elements. We can show the people of Syria and Iraq that there is an alternative. We can make every effort at the peace talks in Geneva, but certainly we can also increase humanitarian efforts. I believe that we should actively support the droppings of food and medicines with our country for the people in besieged territory. Is our country willing to do that? Let us not play geopolitical games with Turkey either. At the moment the Kurds are being opposed to IS because the Americans refuse to provide air support, for example in the region of the city of Manbij. Turkey is afraid of too strong a position for the Kurds in the post-Assad era. Apparently we are only engaged in the fight against ISIS insofar as Erdogan allows us to do so. So what exactly are we doing? On the one hand, we are taking part in bombing. On the other hand, de facto, on the ground, the Kurds are not sufficiently supported because Turkey and the United States have made a deal on this. I'm sorry to say that, but that's the reality. It's a paradox. Colleagues, all these things together, I think, are far more important issues than those bombings. These are matters that lead us to a sustainable solution, while bombing is an easy solution, or not much more than that. In any case, with our group, we would like to ask the government to provide us with a regular progress report with a clear overview of our country's political, diplomatic and humanitarian efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u35	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last Friday, your government finally decided to extend to Syria the bombing missions of our F-16s, which were previously limited to Iraqi territory. Belgium has thus responded favourably to the American demands in this direction and joins our main allies in the international coalition which have already taken the same decision. We also put an end to the hypocrisy of pretending to continue to limit our actions to Iraq, while our soldiers were already defending French or Dutch forces that were going to fight Daesh in Syria. In any case, when our F-16s return to the region from 1 July, they will be able to target Daesh throughout the territory that this terrorist organization controls in Syria and Iraq. It will not be a surprise for you, my group supports this decision. As early as 10 December 2015, I had the opportunity to recall earlier, we had tabled a motion for a resolution in this direction, the first of which called on the government "to support and actively participate in the military actions carried out by the international coalition against Daesh in Iraq and Syria, within the framework of UN Security Council Resolution 22-49" and adopted shortly after the Paris attacks. Since then, Belgium has, unfortunately, also been affected by bloody terrorist attacks claimed by Daesh. And that is what has led the government to rely also on Article 51 of the UN Charter, guaranteeing the right to self-defence as a double framework for future F-16 intervention in Syria. For the CDH, the fact that Belgium is fighting against the Islamic State only in Iraq, where the coalition has gained more and more success against Daesh - and here I absolutely do not agree with my colleague De Vriendt who has just spoken, in relation to a number of territories which have largely been taken over. You can be provided with a report on this – was not enough. Indeed, for his part, Daesh is playing with the borders and consolidating his base in Syria from which he develops his military actions in the region and his terrorist operations abroad. It is this Syrian territorial sanctuary, outside Iraqi borders, which must also be targeted in order to prevent Daesh from benefiting from a rear base, material and financial resources, training areas and, finally, a strong ability to attract foreign jihadist fighters, with all the risks involved in terrorist attacks committed by returnees in Europe or elsewhere, as we have unfortunately experienced at home on 22 March. At the same time, we must not forget that it is the civilian populations in Syria and Iraq that are, of course, the first victims of violence, abuses and crimes against humanity committed by Daesh. The Islamic State imposed a real regime of terror in all the territories under its control. In addition, Daesh targets many ethnic and religious groups in Syria and Iraq. Daesh is therefore undoubtedly a serious and direct threat to the Iraqi and Syrian populations, as well as to regional and global security. Therefore, the international community and Belgium must act with determination, taking all necessary measures to eliminate the territorial sanctuary created by Daesh in both Syria and Iraq, and to put this terrorist organization out of order. We simply cannot abandon these populations to their fate. But that doesn't mean we can just send our F-16s to bomb Daesh. Military action is undoubtedly necessary, but it is obviously not sufficient. We must also act with equal determination at the diplomatic and humanitarian levels, otherwise we will never succeed in building a lasting political solution to the Syrian conflict. Therefore, in addition to the necessary legal, budgetary and security clarifications and the timetable for the forthcoming mission of the Belgian F-16s, I would have liked to hear from the Prime Minister and the Foreign and Defence Ministers what exactly is Belgium's overall strategy to pursue in Syria and Iraq alongside our European and Atlantic allies. Can you tell us what the political, strategic and tactical objectives of this military intervention extended to Syria are? How do we intend to achieve these objectives? With what means? According to what calendar? Since it is well known that air strikes are really effective only when they are coordinated with ground actions, what is planned to support our F-16s to ground forces capable of fighting Daesh on Syrian soil? Who are we going to support in this way and how? Furthermore, how will we coordinate with the Russian forces that are also present in the Syrian sky but do not share the same objectives as us? Of course, we are aiming only at Daesh, but unfortunately our intervention is part of a much larger and much more complex conflict. Many local, regional and international actors are competing. Bashar al-Assad's regime is still murderous. The peace negotiations under the aegis of the United Nations and the Russian-American talks on Syria still do not allow us to look forward with optimism. The truces that had not been achieved had not been respected for long, and the number of civilian casualties continued to increase. This situation, which seems, alas, always inextricable, also feeds the flow of migrants who have no choice but to try to escape this nightmare by all possible means. In addition to military intervention, an urgent political solution is more essential than ever. In this context, how do we support the efforts of Special Envoy Staffan de Mistura? It must be noted that the European Union has positioned itself somewhat behind the Syrian conflict. Is Belgium trying to push the European Union to become more involved in the negotiations in search of a solution? What is Belgium doing? What is diplomacy doing to work concretely towards a political settlement of the Syrian conflict combining the struggle against Daesh, the protection of civilian populations, regional stabilization and a political transition without Bashar al-Assad? Indeed, it seems to me essential to recall that if Daesh and other related terrorist groups have been able to develop, it is because of the chaos generated by the violent repression carried out by the dictatorial regime against its own people and its desire for democratization. What does Belgium propose for Syria's future after Bashar? Federal solutions have already been considered by some, especially the Kurds. Does our diplomacy support these leads? Does Belgium intend to formulate such initiatives? I would like to thank the government for this debate, but, as I said earlier, I think it should be accompanied by a resolution that governs it. The Minister of Defence has already indicated in the past that he shares this vision. The CDH has therefore submitted a resolution to this effect since last December. I hope that this will be supported without too much difficulty by a majority of my colleagues. We are open to possible amendments and even to the co-signature of other interested groups. I think it is important that these debates can be closed by a political act of our House. Thank you for your attention, answers and clarifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u36	Mr President, the issue today is a very important one. Making the decision whether or not our country is going to bomb another country is not a frivolous decision. This has many implications and I think it should be carefully considered. I believe that the government is far too quick to decide on such a decision, too soon to resolve it with bombing. If anything has been demonstrated in recent years, it is that bombing is not a solution, but rather the problem. The bombs didn't solve anything there, quite the contrary. We need to make an analysis of what makes IS so strong. How is it that IS can control such an important territory in that region? If we make an analysis of the causes, we will get to the intervention of the American army. There's no getting around it. All studies show that the reason for the instability of that region is due to the fact that every city has been bombed flat. In Iraq, there's not even a communal house anymore. Everything's been shaved. All international studies show that the ruling cadre of the Islamic State comes from Saddam Hussein's former army. We'll come back to the foreign fighters later, but all the military staff comes from this old army. The humiliations that have been made to prisoners in a prison like Abu Ghraib are today the very basis of ideology to convince young people to join the Islamic State. We can say today that, without the American intervention in Iraq, we would not have had an Islamic State in the region. That's very clear! It is true that our country did not participate in these bombings. But when American officials today attend committees – even if they are informal – at the level of parliament, we would do better, as so-called partners, to tell them that with their policy of thinking that they can intervene wherever they want as gendarmes of the world, they have created chaos. They convinced us – not me but the government – that by going to bomb Libya, we were going to bring democracy. After a few bombings, the Libyan army's guidelines were completely broken. We're going to bring democracy to Libya. What have we brought to Libya today, ladies and gentlemen? Chaos! They are totally homes for the creation of Islamic forces. In Afghanistan, too, we imagined "Boum! Boom! Boom! Joyfulness!" We're going to bomb this whole thing a little bit and it'll be settled! What have we created in Afghanistan, ladies and gentlemen? Chaos! And today, we keep thinking that bombing will solve things, while three times, we went straight into the wall. We have to do it! We're going to bomb again in Syria and we think that's going to solve things. Prime Minister, why, after three failures, would the fourth time be the right one? Can you give me an argument? It would be good for Parliament to have at least one reason. Why, this time, are our bombings really going to solve something? It's already three times that we bomb and it's total failure. But this time, it's the right one! I have not yet heard an argument with a little weight. That is my first question, Prime Minister. Why would the fourth time be the right one? I come to a second important point, the legality of international law. I want to quote Olivier Corten, an ordinary professor at the ULB and director of the Centre for International Law, who raises the question of the government's justification today and who says that the bombings in Syria are not in conformity with international law. I would like to read it: "In the past, the Iraqi government had asked us to help him against Daesh, but this is not the case". His words are rather serious: "By invoking self-defence very broadly, as Belgium is now apparently doing, that is, as soon as a terrorist group is in the territory of a State, it can be attacked without even seeking its opinion from that State. There, it seems to me that there is a problem of principle. If, from now on, it is self-defence that makes it possible to bomb, the day that Eric Zemmour points out Molenbeek as one of the reasons for international terrorism, there is, therefore, an international authorization to come and bomb Belgium." I agree with him in his reasoning. Since when does self-defence justify that Belgium will be able to bomb any African, Latin American, Asian country that has terrorist forces on its territory? That is what we are asked to vote on today. It seems to me quite contrary to international law. Of course, we will not find ourselves on this. What are the solutions? They're complex, we know. But in any case, Western intervention will only make things worse on the spot. First of all, as we said, we have to cut the food in Daesh. You know, Daesh sells his oil, Daesh has dollars, Daesh can finance the best wages in the region. This is one of the reasons why many of the so-called democratic opposition fighters turn to them. A year or two ago, they were said to have been described as "Pro-Al-Qaeda Islamists", but either today they are renamed "Democrats". Why are they moving on to the Islamic State? Because he pays better wages. That makes more money. Let's cut Daesh's food. For this to happen, we must be able to cut off the sale of oil in the region. And as you know, the Turkish border is a veritable passory in this matter. Secondly, there is a need for an inclusive diplomatic initiative in the region. We will have to talk to all the forces in the region. To think today that we, Belgium, have the right to decide who will or will not remain in power in the region... We must stop with this neo-colonial model. We must stop believing that our Western countries have the moral authority to go and say in the world that runs or not. This may have been true at the beginning of the 20th century. Today, we have to stop this. We need to take stock. Our Western interventions in the countries of the Middle and Middle East have not resolved the situation on the ground. That is why, in our view, we must have an inclusive logic, under the aegis of the United Nations and not under the aegis of the Western and American powers that have their agenda. Let us stop, between us, please, being hypocrites, telling us that we are only going to intervene for the happiness of the peoples. There are geostrategic, geopolitical and financial interests on the spot. That is why Western powers are involved in this type of region. This was already the case in Iraq, Afghanistan and several parts of the world. Let us stop, on behalf of the business, from continuing to intervene in these regions and instead allow multilateral diplomacy to arrive at peace.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u37	Mr Minister, I sense a confusion in some of them. A number of opposition MPs consider themselves ministers. Because they do not have the right to decide, they feel that there is no respect for Parliament. We'd be laughed away. We do not have the right to decide, but we do have a very important right of control. That is our job. I think it would be much more interesting to see how we can strengthen that control function. A number of bodies make this control possible, such as the Commission for the Succession of Foreign Shipments. I suggest that we use this committee to the full. Minister Vandeput is certainly not working against that. On the contrary, everyone who sits on that committee knows that he is prepared to come whenever Parliament so requests. He never avoids a debate. We need to see how we can be better informed. We have access to the decisions of the Council of Ministers concerning this decision. We also have access to the rules or commitment of all military operations. We have access to the military intelligence reports. We should look at the committee's internal rules behind closed doors to see how we can add value to them. For example, what documents can we all request? I suggest we take a look abroad. How do the other defense committees work? Recently we paid a work visit to Estonia. That is where I learned that the defence committee members have a security clearance from NATO. Behind closed doors and with strict secrecy, of course, they have access to all NATO documents related to missions. I am not saying here that we should all be given NATO clearance as defence committee members, but there may still be improvements in our right of control. That's our job. Furthermore, we must continue to organise debates and hearings in Parliament in order to understand what, how and why, including for the population and for posterity. The debates are preferably about the content and not about the procedure. Last week we made a very good start. Mr De Roover has already referred to the US Embassy's information session on IS in Syria. I hear a lot of people calling for a debate here, but if there is a debate in the Chamber, there is no one here because it is on a Friday night. If a debate is organised, those who call for it must be present. Colleagues, in these two ways, by keeping control and by keeping the debate alive, we can play a key role. My questions have already been asked, so I will not repeat them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u38	I give the floor to Mr Crusnière. He's facing the difficult task of speaking for one minute of 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u39	Mr President, I would like to add to my colleague's statement and, above all, to reply to Mr Ducrame. Mr Ducrame, you do not understand our position, but I do not understand your argument and I do not understand the argument of this government. And we wonder what's most serious! You are talking about the legitimacy of collective defence, but I would have liked to hear you speak of this legitimacy of collective defence and see your arguments in relation to that. You're going to write to the UN and I'd like that once this mail is sent, we also have the information and a copy. That seems important to me. I'm sure we're opening a door to a dangerous precedent. A great absence from this committee today is the Minister for Development Cooperation. This proves once again that this aspect is moving to third place and we regret it. Prime Minister, as you said, you are helping the refugees, but there is also the population that is on the ground, that has been bombarded, that has been subjected to the fighting with the Islamic State. Here too, we have to think about it. I asked the United States delegation that we received on Friday to find out where that international assistance was coordinated. I didn't get an answer. I therefore ask you the question now. When it comes to the military, all this is well coordinated, but I would like to know how development aid is actually being made for all those people who are suffering from the Islamic State and all these bombings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u40	Congratulations, colleague, you've done a wonderful job in 1 minute and 38 seconds. I'll put myself in my place soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u41	Your time is running!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has already been said. I shall confine myself to two points. The first is the mandate. I have heard the explanation from the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister. They cite two legal bases. The first legal basis is Resolution 2249. I recommend that you ask for the advice of Professor Jan Wauters of the KUL, a specialist in UN law. Professor Wauters says that this resolution does not provide a legal basis for the intervention, just because neither the Foreign Minister nor the Prime Minister mention the passage that called on Russia to add a passage to its vote in the Security Council stating that all measures must be in accordance with international law and the UN Charter. The second legal basis introduced by the Government is Article 51 of the Charter. I suggest that you follow the case law of the International Court of Justice. The International Court of Justice has already expressed its views on this matter in the past and has stated that this Article 51 applies only in the case of a conflict between two States. For now, IS is not a state. Article 51 refers only to interstate violence. The conclusion is therefore the following. I call on everyone in the Chamber to be very careful about the kind of artistic freedoms that some countries afford in the past and also now in interpreting the UN Charter. A small country such as Belgium has every interest in ensuring that the international legal order is respected for all operations. I fear, ladies and gentlemen, that we will not have to wait long until we get some cake of our own, for example somewhere in Asia, in a conflict between China and another country, or in a conflict that Russia is having with some country in the Caucasus. It could end up in our faces like a boomerang. I come to my second point. The government is very clear. We will soon have very detailed information on the military operation, but I tell you that we will remain hungry for everything that is non-military. We are told that a number of millions will be given humanitarianly, for the refugees, but for the necessary political efforts that Europe and the West Belgium must make, we are still hungry. Once again, I have heard the Prime Minister pay lip service to the need to do more than the military. I would advise you, ladies and gentlemen, to read again the resolution we adopted here in the Chamber on 26 September 2014 concerning the operation in Iraq. There was the same lip service as those we heard here today. Colleagues, is there anyone who knows of a Belgian political initiative, for example in Iraq, to help find a solution there, in a non-military way? We didn't see any of that. The bombings and the lack of efforts there also mean that the political situation in Iraq has probably never been worse. No longer than 14 days ago, another Shiite opposition movement entered the green zone. I don't know if there's been an attack in Baghdad today, but the last six days there have been attacks by ISIS. That is the failure of the policy pursued, which is to one-sidedly focused on the military and lack of political attention. I regret to say that I do not believe in the fine promises that will be made to us now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u43	In addition to what my colleague De Vriendt said, there is a first element, namely international law, on which to base ourselves. The government is announcing resolution 2249, which, according to a number of professors of international law from our country and abroad, is not a valid resolution for a simple reason. We must consult the preparatory work for this resolution: it is very clear, as the President, Mr. Van der Maelen, whom Russia has introduced a paragraph entitled "In accordance with the Charter of the United Nations" to ensure that it is not an authorisation to use force. That's very clear. If you look at the preparatory work of our committee fifteen months ago, even before the creation of this government, you will see that the arguments of the Di Rupo government and the ministers of the time were exactly the opposite of what you put forward today. What is the reason for this radical change? I assume, Mr. Minister of Defence, Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, that each of your departments has issued a legal note on the intervention in Syria. Can we dispose of these notes? What were the conclusions? Should it be based on resolution 2249 or other provisions? Do the legal services of Defence and Foreign Affairs feel that there is a need to intervene in Syria? Secondly, the issue is obviously geopolitical and that is what should guide us here. We must first consider the effectiveness of previous bombings. Mr. Ducrame said that 40 per cent of the areas occupied by Daesh had been liberated. I have been the monitoring committee for missions abroad since the beginning of Desert Falcon. It was never possible to determine whether the liberated areas were desert, rural or urban areas. It is obvious that when you free the Famenne, you do not free Saint-Gilles, in terms of densely populated areas or not. Mr Ducrame, with the exception of Ramadi, were the cities liberated? No. It is better to liberate a city, in terms of geopolitical, military victory, than to liberate a rural or desert area. Second question: how will Belgian airstrikes against Daesh's positions in Syria deter Sunni people in Syria from supporting or even joining the terrorist organization? I'll explain. One of the main lessons of the many air campaigns in Iraq is that bombing Sunni areas where Daesh anchors, of course, has the effect of radicalizing Sunni populations. This is what is happening in Iraq today. The aim, however, is to free the Sunni populations of Daesh, exactly the opposite. How will Belgian air strikes in Sunni areas tarnish the unprecedented flow of refugees from Syria to Europe? Home. Knowing that most refugees first fled the abuses of the Bashar al-Assad regime and its human rights violations. Mr. Hedebouw, look at Aleppo. It is not Daesh who bombards Aleppo and creates chaos, a quagmire and a mass grave. Finally, how will the objective military alliance between the members of NATO, of which we are a part, and Russia, with the Bashar el Assad regime, tarnish the torrent of rallying the Sunni populations of the Middle East, North Africa, but also of certain young fanatics and indoctrinated here, in Belgium, in Europe, in France, in Germany or elsewhere? I will conclude with a reminder of what happened in 2001. So, the United States is hit in their heart with the Pentagon attacks and the two twin towers of New York City. George W. Bush's response was a military intervention, evidently justified by everyone in Afghanistan, by bombing the Pashtun areas. That was 15 years ago. In 2016, the Taliban are still in Afghanistan and we are still there. We should not be in Syria and Iraq in 2031. Einstein said: "The madness is to do the same thing and to expect a different result"; we need to do something else to get a different result.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u44	I just want to quote five cities: Tikrit, Sinjar, Ramadi, Kobane and Erbil.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u45	They're in Iraq.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u46	This has put an end to the interventions. I am happy to give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u47	Mr President, I shall speak very briefly. Then my colleagues in Foreign Affairs and Defence will be able to complete my remarks. First, on a preliminary basis, I would like to state in response to a remark that Alexander De Croo is absent today because he is on a mission abroad. In addition, we wanted to satisfy the Committee's wish by organizing this meeting very quickly following the decision taken by the Council of Ministers last Friday. That's a first point. Secondly, we all agree that Daesh is a serious threat, and there is no doubt about that. I respect one and the other's opinion. How can we choose the best approach to achieve results? That must be the intention of everyone in this committee. I repeat the first point of my introduction. We are convinced that the approach is necessary on three points at the same time. I have listened carefully, and I note that even those who are not positive about the use of F-1673 over Syria agree that we certainly need to develop a diplomatic strategy, and make a greater commitment to humanitarian and development. That is an important point that I have to make with you. I repeat the three-dimensional approach: defence – the military option is part of it – the strategy for development – with the humanitarian dimension – and the political strategy. The three go hand in hand and are inextricably linked. In response to legitimate inquiries that I have heard from Ecolo or the PTB as well, it is therefore, in my view, not the same as what has been done in Libya where, in fact, there have not been sufficient steps in terms of development, in terms of political approach and, above all, there have been no lessons learned from the past in terms of post-conflict intervention. It is also an important task for the international community to reflect on the military approach, development and political approach. There is an immediate need to consider how to develop a short-, medium- and long-term strategy, including post-conflict strategies, to stabilize and support the capacity to bring about institutions that are strong enough, sustainable and strong to ensure respect for people and people. It must be the difference with the past precisely, as Einstein said and as others have repeated, not to make the same mistakes on several occasions. We therefore plead for a different approach that draws lessons from the past. I said it at the outset in my introduction. This is a first point I want to highlight. The second point is respect. I myself, as a law student, attended a lot of audiences where international law was spoken of. I therefore understand the points of view and the interpretations that are given. I respect them, but we have made a choice and we are not the only ones who have made a choice on the basis of two provisions with, on the one hand, the United Nations resolution, as I have already explained, which states that action must be taken in accordance with international law. That is why the reasoning on Article 51 in its collective self-defence dimension is supplemented. We can criticize, we can blame, we can disagree, we can find professors of law who think A and others who think B on this subject, but I repeat that we are not alone. Today, I heard some very hard words. Belgium would no longer be a State governed by the rule of law because a choice was made on the basis of article 51 as drafted. But then, ladies and gentlemen, are you still going to sit in political meetings with your French, Dutch and Danish colleagues who have made exactly the same choice and taken the same decision, on the basis of the same legal provisions? I imagine that some political families will be particularly tortured on this issue at their European meetings. The third point is also important, the rules of engagement. I think the Minister of Defence will say a little bit more later. The remark was rightly made. We must make every effort to avoid collateral damage. That is why these rules are particularly important. The Minister of Defence will certainly be able to say something further about this. Secondly, some colleagues rightly asked whether we had considered the consequences in terms of assessing the threat in Belgium and the effects of the threat that might ensue. This must really hold our attention, both government and parliament. When, today, the OCAM – an agency, I repeat, independent of the government – tracks assessments of the terrorist threat, it takes into account the situation of countries participating in international coalitions. It goes without saying that this will be one of the criteria of assessment to be taken into account by the experts of the OCAM who, on the basis of the various so-called "support services", have to draw up regularly, either for the whole country or for specific events or for specific locations and personalities, assessments in relation to the threat. Finally, I would like to indicate this to you. I am measuring, and we are well aware, all of us here, that this decision is delicate. It's never an ordinary decision. Therefore, it requires that we take the time to think. This is also why this government has not decided, as others have done, in the minutes and hours following the dramatic attacks in Brussels, to take action and announce decisions. We took a step backwards before intervening in international coalitions. In conclusion, I have to tell you what I think after eighteen months that I represent the country at international meetings on a regular basis. I note that our generation, parliament as well as government, in Belgium and throughout Europe, is facing new serious, serious and delicate geopolitical challenges. If I look back, no doubt other generations have been confronted with the great difficulties arising from the cold war and the tensions it has caused. Subsequently, we had the impression that we could benefit from what was called the "peace dividend" in Europe, with a period of stability and security. If we want to be lucid together, it must be noted that Europe is now facing two particularly important challenges. The first concerns the kind of political relations and dialogue that we must establish with a great neighbour such as Russia. How will we succeed in drawing up a strategy for a fruitful political dialogue with the one who will forever be a neighbour of Europe? And it's not easy. We are well aware here of the need to show the necessary nuance, as is the case with the Minister for Foreign Affairs whenever he speaks on this subject or is active in this area. The second, which is not unrelated to the first, concerns the situation in southern Europe. How can it succeed in its economic development, ensuring the foundations of the European project of peace, stability and prosperity? To safeguard fundamental freedoms. How would it be possible to implement this project in concrete terms in a situation of lasting conflict and a lack of stability near our European borders? That is why a political investment in these conflicts is particularly important, and that is why Belgium advocates a stronger European role. I just want to point out to you that we are well aware of what is happening in the region of Iraq and Syria – not to mention Syria, which we have not talked about very much about, but which needs our attention in relation to what is happening there or what could happen there in the months or years to come. That must mobilize us. We must work in the threefold dimension: the military option, the political option and the humanitarian and development option in order to make a useful contribution to security, stability, the fight against conflict and poverty in those regions. It is also a way of ensuring our future with stability, security and development capacity. The stakes are at stake. That is why this government has taken on responsibilities. I would like to thank those who would like to support politically the project that we are carrying with all the necessary shade and to be convinced that we will have to regularly assess in this Parliament how we are making progress in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u48	Mr President, Madam President, I will be very brief. The Prime Minister has already provided a great deal of information. I see no problem in communicating the letter we will send to the Presidency of the Security Council and to the Secretary-General of the United Nations. It will also circulate at the level of the Security Council. I would point out that we will write this letter on the basis of Article 51 of the Charter. It is clear that the reference to the resolution supports the explanation of the approach. However, it is on the basis of Article 51 and at the request of the Iraqi government in terms of defence and self-defence against attacks coming from Daesh, particularly located at the level of a part of Syrian territory over which the Syrian government does not have control, that we intervene. That is why we are intervening. It is also for this reason that we do not ask for permission from the Syrian government, which does not have control over this part of the territory which is now occupied by Daesh. I come to the various actions. We have already had a lot of discussions on this in the Committee on External Relations. Belgium has a very important role in many different international fora. That's normal. At European level, we are always trying to reach a unanimous decision. We have put a number of proposals on the table. I will mention just one: the appointment of a European Union Special Envoy for Iraq, Libya and the fight against Daesh. It is a proposal from Belgium, but so far there is no consensus on this within the European Union. It is the same reasoning as for the Middle East, i.e. the conflict between Israel and Palestine. After many questions, it was still possible at the end of last year to appoint a European Union Special Envoy for the Middle East. However, the appointment of an EU envoy for the region of Iraq-Syria and the fight against Daesh has so far been impossible. We saw the same reasoning within the United Nations. There have already been some UN special envoys, but with the last, Staffan de Mistura, we work together week after week and day after day, to support his actions both bilaterally and in the European Union. Since the beginning of the conflict in Syria, Belgium has participated in all the meetings of the Friends of the Syrian People. But we have also taken humanitarian initiatives. Thus, as early as 2013, a mobilization initiated by Belgium brought together dozens of countries to try to enforce international humanitarian law, for example, to stop attacks on hospitals, places of care in Syria. Sometimes I feel that our initiatives are being evaluated on the basis that the conflict persists. Indeed, Belgium did not end the conflict in Syria. If that is what we are talking about, know that, for the time being, the initiatives we are taking are aimed at trying to help a wide range of international approaches. I'm often told that we haven't done anything. I was in Baghdad a few days ago. We advocated an inclusive government there, in cooperation with many different partners. I have done so in all contacts with our partners in Iraq and also with the representatives of the United Nations, with Jan Kubis and Lise Grande. We are still working on such a solution, but so far there is no such solution. I told the King of Jordan today: unfortunately, the army in Baghdad, but also the police, consists of more than 90% Shiites. There are almost no Sunnis in the army and the police. We are trying to do more and more in this regard. We have also found a number of humanitarian solutions for some refugees. I repeat, actions were taken by Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, Theo Francken, to bring people from that region to Belgium. That was especially true. I had the opportunity to go, as I explained in committee, to Erbil to meet with the Yezidi minorities, for example. Parliament's demands have been numerous in humanitarian terms and we have brought minorities, sometimes hundreds, from the region to Belgium. Beyond that, I could also mention Belgium's leading role in the region in combating arms trafficking, and in particular in stepping up this fight and through Interpol and Europol, by advocating for strengthening the data banks of these institutions. As far as the action in the coalition itself is concerned, there is not only the military side. We are present in this coalition among 65 states and two organisations – the European Union and the Arab League. And we are present in the small group, or core group, the small group of 24 states. In view of Belgium's commitment, we have organised the coalition plenary meetings, we have held one in Brussels, and we have also organized a small group meeting in Brussels. There are five working groups in the various areas of action that you have all mentioned. Belgium is involved in these five groups. We have just met in Brussels the working group which is particularly concerned with foreign fighters. We understand the role Belgium can play in this context in particular. The other initiatives we are taking are trying to influence the course of the negotiations. From the beginning, Belgium has been advocating for countries such as Iran and Russia to be involved in the search for solutions in Syria or Iraq. This has not always been possible. In previous discussions in Geneva, we were unable to obtain the presence of Iran, even though that was our request. We have seen the result of this absence. Today, with work done by the international coalition, but also a specific demand that we have made each time, we see the participation of world-class powers. I am thinking of the United States, Russia and also the European Union. At local, regional level, it is very important to work with Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Iran. That is not easy and I have had many questions about it. We must remain in touch with very difficult countries, which are, however, necessary to find a political solution. We will continue. As of tomorrow, for example, we will again have ministerial meetings within NATO. The debate on relations with Russia will return to the agenda. I am prepared, since the question has been asked, to make the point on a regular basis. The Minister of Defence may say a word about the state of operations. Even if they are strictly military, we have always recalled that if they are indispensable to combat terrorist groups on the ground, the solution will not come from military operations. The solution will come from a political solution to an inclusive government in Iraq, a transitional capacity in Syria, a government of national unity in Libya. This is what we are working on, and I repeat, either bilaterally or through our presence in a number of international bodies. On every occasion, we intervene on the subject in bilateral or multilateral contacts. In recent weeks alone, these contacts have multiplied. We are also fortunate to have a number of them in Brussels, given the presence of NATO and the European Union. It is not by chance that you have received a special envoy from the President of the United States. We have also seen it at length. While he is present at times in Brussels, he tells me that he is mainly present in Washington, Iraq-Syria and Brussels. It is, of course, because there are contacts both in NATO and in the European Union. We have the opportunity to use these different contacts to strengthen our bilateral action.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u49	Mr President, since much has already been said, I shall confine myself to the questions specific to the military sector. For those of you who wish to minimize the progress that has already been made on the ground, I would like to clarify a few things. Mrs. Matz has listed some cities. As far as possible, I would like to share with you a number of other things. We can talk about percentages and areas, but we can also talk about a number of observations in other areas. For example, Daesh's revenues are falling very heavily, including by the out-of-service of a number of installations. The wages were halved, so that the number of recruits also falls very sharply. Figures have also been released on this subject. The recruitment is clearly suffering, also because IS has not been able to book or announce the least terrain gain in recent months. That's morally very important, too. In doing so, we can also give substance to the original plan to overcome Daesh. The first step is to stop them, the second step is to reduce them and the third step is to install a stable regime. Well, that's basically what it's all about. We're leaving phase one and we're going to end up in phase two. It is also clear that with the work on the ground in Baghdad we have trained several thousands of people from the Iraqi security forces. We are going to continue our work on the ground and give a first impetus to the reconstruction there. What we have decided with the government is therefore not a new mandate. It is only an adaptation of the mandate that we were already fulfilling, namely contributing to building partner capacity, on the one hand, and contributing to the international coalition through air strikes where necessary, on the other. As far as the extension of our F-16s over Syria is concerned, it seems clear to me that it is not desirable that we should support the Assad regime. Not us, but the Russians make that choice. Let me make one misconception out of that. The Russians are not part of the international coalition against Daesh. So there is no coordination with the Russians either. There is, however, a security mechanism to facilitate conflict. This means that agreements are made so that there can be no conflict. However, it seems clear to me that the Russians have a very different end goal than the international coalition. A number of aspects have been mentioned to show that it is not worth it, including the fact that the Dutch and the United Kingdom do not fly much over Syria. It's either one or the other. Either we follow the same strategy as IS and say that the border that lies ahead of us doesn't exist... They don't know that border. For us, that border does not exist in the camps of IS either. That is what we are saying today. Can and should we or should we not act over Syria? We have just the same F-16... as the Dutch. If the Dutch did not have radio coverage, then neither will we, which does not mean that no action can be taken. There are different types of missions, with different types of objectives. There are clearly missions that can be carried out, if that is the question of the international coalition. We are part of an international coalition, in which each country with its capacities contributes. In what way are targets defined? This can be done on the basis of intelligence from the international coalition. It may be about weapons depots, technical or economic installations of Daesh. These may be fixed or moving targets from coalition intelligence itself or also to, now more and more, as happened with the recapture of a number of cities, close air support at the request of the ground forces themselves. These ground troops are Iraqis or other troops on the ground, including the Kurds. I would deny that the Kurds, if they ask for air support, would be deprived of it. The opposite is true. They too have been helped in the recapture of Erbil and the like. The budget is foreseen in the general budget operations for 2016. Budgetary doesn't make the expansion of the F-16s flight zone any difference, nor does the extension or modification of the assignment of our trainers make any difference. It is only a matter of very small differences at the level of what is happening on the ground. The trainings are solved internally. The net cost is around 28 million euros. As far as the rules of engagement are concerned, I have mentioned it several times and there was also a question from Mr Vandenput about risk analysis. The risk analysis was, in case of enlargement over Syria, mainly about whether or not there is combat search and rescue. That is covered; if it is not covered, then we will not fly either, that seems obvious to me. I said earlier that there are several possible targets. For each mission again, a question comes from the coalition. We accept that mission or not, based on our own analysis. Our red card holder can, of course, cancel the mission at any time if he deems it advisable. Then there is still our pilot himself who can decide at the last minute whether or not to do something. I have always said in Parliament that the collateral damage we cause has been nil until now. I am very proud to say that international reports confirm that. We have been able to minimise collateral damage, precisely because of the way in which we work, which is of course very important. One last word on transparency or the progress report that Mr De Vriendt may be asking for. International organisations can say what they want, but I believe that the chairman of the Committee on Defence has also made it quite clear that we in the Committee on the Succession of Foreign Shipments are very transparent and provide all the information that is requested there. We also have absolutely no problem with making a solid progress report in that committee behind closed doors. If there are international organisations that clearly have other intentions than simply our internal security, and consider it necessary for us, as large Rambos and machos, to tell them where we are making how many victims and so on, then so be it. That's not my choice. Neither externally nor with our people in operation, nor in the context of our internal security, we have much to gain from being tough about our operations abroad. I think the opposite is true.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u50	Mr President, I shall keep three things from this afternoon. One, there's no legal basis. Two, there are still no political plans to exit the crisis. Three, the development dimension is totally inadequate. We will therefore continue to support our action in Iraq, but the explanations given about Syria do not convince us. In concrete terms, I expect to see your motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u51	Mr President, I thank the Ministers for their reply. This debate is instructive and comes very early, since, as the Prime Minister has said, the intervention will not take place until July. It's only May. On the other hand, I think it is important to stress, as the Prime Minister has said, that our European brotherly countries have already taken the decision to intervene, including those, dear friends of the Socialist Party, where the Socialist Party either shares power or directs governments. This shows, moreover, that, in the long run, it will be necessary to make even more progress in the construction of a genuine European Defence, which will help to avoid a somewhat paradoxical situation where you make the big gap...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u52	I do not layer my position on the Danish Socialists. Free to do so in relation to the Danish Liberals!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u53	I didn't interrupt you, dear friend! Secondly, as the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs have said, the diplomatic and political dimension is the most important and the most necessary, but it is clear that it is also the most difficult. If we want to avoid new roots and emerge new Islamists in a few years in this region, we must take the problem to the bottom. And the problem at the bottom is particularly "natured", if I may say so. Today we are still paying for the consequences of the Sykes-Picot agreements. There is the problem of the Kurds present in several countries, and not just Syria and Iraq; the problem of the Christian minorities who are totally disappearing, which is an absolute tragedy that must also be addressed. All of this will have to be taken into account. And don't hide it, there's a problem. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has rightly mentioned this by saying that some states are either not admitted or do not want to be involved in the negotiations at the moment. This is a real problem, which will certainly be a hindrance to the real resolution of the conflict. That being said, I think we are in such a situation today that there is a kind of absolute emergency duty to save people. I heard earlier from the representative of the PTB who spoke about the interventions in Afghanistan, Kuwait, etc. Of course, we could study and rewrite history. But what frustrates me is also what happened in Cambodia during the Khmer Rouge regime. Because we didn't intervene, there were millions of deaths. We are currently in a situation of humanitarian emergency and it is absolutely important to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u54	Mr President, I have three comments to make. I welcome the government's determination to tackle terrorism at home and abroad. I am also pleased that a pragmatic approach is being taken. A 3D approach is the only one right. I would just like to suggest, Prime Minister, Ministers, that this approach be converted into a roadmap in the coming weeks. Furthermore, Belgium is a small country, but a number of examples in history show that we can achieve a lot in diplomatic terms. I would argue that we should appeal to our contacts in this area even more proactively, especially within the European Union. Finally, with regard to a thorough evaluation, the following. When we adopted the resolution to attack Daesh in Iraq, we called for an evaluation. It is true that we have discussed this on a regular basis in the Committee on the Succession of Foreign Shipments, but there has been no thorough comprehensive evaluation. Belgium is going to Syria for a year. I would like to argue that at the end of this year we should carry out an in-depth evaluation of the activities in Syria and, if necessary, we should also be able to adjust them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u55	I'd also like to intervene. With regard to the dispute over the mandate, Article 51 of the International Court of Justice exists. It is therefore not a question of differences in the interpretation of lawyers. The International Court of Justice has interpreted Article 51 and has stated that it applies only to interstate violence, which is not the case with IS. I am one of those who say that Belgium could have made a more useful contribution at this stage than making F-1673 available. That contribution should be aimed at trying to cause a break between IS and Sunnis. The Sunnis are in a very difficult position. They are being bombed by the Russians, and they are also threatening to be the victims of the upscaling of the military activities that are being prepared by the Americans and in which we are involved, of the city's surroundings, of the bombing of cities and so on. So what we really need is a strong signal to the Sunni people that, on the one hand, we have a political plan, something I have not heard today. On the other hand, we should also let them know that we are not abandoning them. A study by International Alert has investigated the reasons why Syrian young people join IS. Contrary to what most Members of this House think, this has little to do with religious radicalism. Everything has to do with total disarray, not seeing any intervention, no income and even hunger and so on. My question is this. Has the government not considered making our C-130s available instead of the F-16s, in order, as requested by the International Syrian Support Group, to participate in the organisation of droppings? I think that would be much more useful. There's plenty of firepower. There are at least 100 fighter planes of higher quality than ours. Has the government considered the other option, the sending of C-130s, which I think would be much more useful? Finally, a response to what the Foreign Minister is replying to my statement that we are doing nothing. By "nothing" I mean "nothing" bilaterally. Of course, we are participating in the international circuit that exists there. Minister, for example, the Netherlands has a team with a special envoy and two employees, located in Istanbul. That team is in the areas where the moderate opposition is in permanent search for projects to ensure that some local stability is created. I miss that kind of business. We will now find out in detail when the military operation begins, where it will take place, how much it will cost, how many people will be deployed. However, we do not get any information about the other efforts that we could make bilaterally and which I think are much more useful. I regret that. I think this is much more important. As some of my fellow Members have said here, throwing bombs is an easy solution. Surely there is no one in this room who thinks that an ideology can be bombed away? We're gonna need something else. We must be able to conquer the hearts and minds of the Sunnis. Much more attention needs to be paid to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u56	Mr President, I share the view that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has developed rather succinctly and very effectively. The only solution that changes the situation on the ground is political. This requires an inclusive government in Iraq, including the Sunni minority of 40%, and the post-Assad transition in Syria. On this point, we agree. You added Libya too. But the question we have to ask ourselves, by extending Iraq's Desert Falcon to Syria for our six F-16s, is how these bombings will help achieve these two political objectives. My view is that this is not going to help for the reasons just explained by our President, among other things for the place of the Sunnis. We did not talk about the second operation that is part of what you are going to present to us, Valiant Phoenix, that is to say, the formation by the Earth component of Iraqi soldiers that could allow Baghdad to emerge an Iraqi army comprising 40% of Sunnis. In this respect, I am following you because Belgium and the action of its army allow the emergence of a state, starting with its army, in the image of its population. As long as Belgium can help the Sunnis to be able to join the Iraqi army and be trained, it is possible. But then the question arises as to how we can act in Syria in the same way, knowing that the army does exist in Damascus and is unfortunately not in the image of Syrian society. This is 80% of Sunnites. I think it is also appropriate to be able, in the long term, to imagine in Syria a much more effective military action, shot both against Daesh and the regime of Bashar al-Assad, for the security of humanitarian corridors and immigration routes allowing these populations, mainly attacked by Bashar al-Assad and Daesh, to reach safer areas and then reintegrate them, possibly with the help of the army. The objective is political and the solution of the bombings does not help to achieve this political objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u57	Mr. Chairman, I have heard the various aspects developed by the government. The Prime Minister said that the military component was not the essential objective and that the objective was political. It was completed in this way by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in a very precise way on the various points of this difficult negotiation and the various actors around the table. We are particularly attentive. We are not in the same situation as in Baghdad, where the bombardment aspect prevailed without a political and diplomatic aspect that followed or went parallel to it. I note that we are moving in parallel, with a humanitarian component, developed from the outset in the Prime Minister's intervention. I insist, and I remain convinced, that if we had a resolution on this committee's agenda in the coming days that formalizes and frames the discussions we have had today, to complete all of our debates, the loop could be closed. I'm not talking about a legal obligation, I'm talking about courtesy and fair play that the government can have. As a training lawyer, I understand. I do not think that the Constitution imposes anything. But if only out of courtesy. I recall our willingness to move forward on this resolution and the provision of our text, as we have done in several dossiers. Others were made available. At that time, Mr. Ducrame, I assure you right away, I will not claim any copyright. The aim is to be able to pursue and complete the discussion we had this afternoon in a perfect manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u58	Minister, I will not teach you anything if I tell you that you have not really convinced me with your arguments. I don't know if that was the point at some point. Maybe it'll be for the next war! I would have preferred to draw a little more inspiration from what the Spanish government did after the attacks of 2004. At the societal level, much thought has been given to less intervention abroad, as this has led to the problems they have had to resolve. They have done a great deal against terrorism, its financing, etc. It would be in our best interest to draw inspiration from their reaction rather than from a warlike reaction. Indeed, France is not left behind. Other types of governments, whether they are on the right or on the left, sometimes make such decisions. I think we're going straight in the wall. As long as we don't have an inclusive diplomacy that focuses on the development of these regions, we won't have a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic425x.u59	The debate will continue on the basis of a resolution to be tabled.
