ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues, I offer to your attention a Programme for the Work of the National Assembly for 6 "February 8" 2019. Today is the first Wednesday of the month and the program is made on proposals by the parliamentary groups. First in a row are the Bulgarian Rhodolists. There's no proposal. There is no proposal from GERB's parliamentary group. We have a proposal from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria. Importers. suppose Krum Zarkov, Philip Popov, Pencho Milkov and Rumen Georgiev, on 8 June 2018. The proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs is addressed. There is no proposal from the Parliamentary Group on Rights and Freedoms. 2. First vote on the Law on the Protection of Commercial Secrets. Importer of the Council of Ministers, on 2 January 2019 3. Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of Hungary and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia on the establishment of a Multinational Aviation Training Programme for Special Operations. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 14 January 2019 4. Annual Report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 11 June 2018. 5. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Railway Transport Act. Importer suppose the Council of Ministers, 22 January 2019 Point 1 for Thursday, 7 February 2019 6. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code. Importers sveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs, 24 October 2018. Adopted at first vote on 15 November 2018. Point 2 for Thursday, 7 February 2019 7. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Water Act. Importers Ivan Valkov, Desislava Taneva, Andrian Raykov and Stanislava Stoyanova, January 25, 2019. Point 1 for Friday, 8 February 2019 8. Parliamentary control comprising: 8.1. Debates on questions from the MPs Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev, Ivan Ibrishimov, Anelia Klisarova, Valentina Naydenova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Health on the organization of transplant treatment in Bulgaria Following the conclusion of the debate, we continue with the following. 8.2. "Requests and Questions Answered by the Minister of Health, Thursday, 7 February 2019. These debates and parliamentary control on Thursday will be broadcast directly on BNT 2 as parliamentary control is broadcast. 8.3. Questions and questions answered by members of the Council of Ministers Friday, 8 February 2019. Colleagues, at the end of the meeting today, if there are further questions to Minister Ananiev, I will inform you so that he can answer these additional questions to him tomorrow. Please vote. Vote 154 MPs: 138, none, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 30 January to 5 February 2019: - Draft decision on the increase of neo-fascist events in Europe and Bulgaria. Importers - Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. It is allocated to: the Committee on Religions, Human Rights, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Committee on Culture and Media; - A bill for the census of agricultural holdings in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020. Importer "The Council of Ministers." The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government; - A bill to amend and supplement the Religion Act. Importers svetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi. Distributed to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights and to the Committee on Budget and Finance; - Draft for the ratification of the Additional Agreement to the Memorandum of Understanding on the maintenance and operation of CMS-detector between the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Organisation for Nuclear Research (CERN) (CERN) No 10, signed on 28 November 2018 in Sofia. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Education and Science and to the Committee on Budget and Finance; - A bill for ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of consulting services between the Public Procurement Agency of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 2 November 2017, signed on 21 December 2018. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance; - A bill to amend and supplement the Health Act. Importers - Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Health and Further: the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Education and Science and the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government; - Proposal for discussion on questions No 954-05-1 of 11 January 2019 by the MPs Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev, Ivan Ibrishimov, Anelia Klisarova, Valentina Naydenova, Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on the organization of transplant treatment in Bulgaria. Importers "Anelia Klisarova and a group of MPs. Messages: - on the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I inform the Members of the National Assembly that on 5 February 2019 a Decree No 20 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 101 of the Constitution, by which the Law amending and supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act adopted by the National Assembly on 24 January 2019 is returned for a new discussion. It is entrusted to the lead Committee on Internal Security and Public Order to report to the MPs the President's decree and the reasons for it; - in the National Assembly they have received: "The report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Fund for Guarantee of Deposits in Banks on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 25 December 2018. The report shall be reviewed and discussed on 24 January 2019 at a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 28 January 2019. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly; - the National Statistical Institute has received an information on the price indexes of a producer on the domestic and international markets in industry, December 2018 and the business situation in January 2019. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We continue with the first point for today, colleagues: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE STATE AND THE GENERAL ARCHIVES. "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria and I propose that the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for Damage be included as a point on the agenda of the National Assembly for the period 6 February 2019, submitted by Krum Zarkov, Philip Popov, Pencho Milkov and Rumen Georgiev. If you'd like to present your motives to us, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have the honour to inform you of the reasons for an important bill which directly concerns the protection of the rights of Bulgarian citizens and the benefits in cases where these rights are violated by the actions or unlawful acts of the administration. [[Noise in the room.]] Our proposals can be grouped into three main points. The first of these is necessary in order to address the effects of Interpretation Decision No 2 of 27 July 2016 of the Supreme Administrative Court. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]] According to the thesis adopted in the Decision, the damage caused to citizens and legal entities in the course of or in the event of the implementation of a legislative act in the period...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u3	Dear Mr. Zarkov, would you mind interrupting for a moment? Colleagues, it's a little louder in this room than it's bearable. Please take your seats and give Mr. Zarkov the opportunity to state his reasons. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u4	Honourable Members, it is about whether you are entitled to compensation if you have suffered damage from an illegal act and it has subsequently been repealed. According to the Supreme Administrative Court's judgment, there is no such right. This is a very controversial decision and proof of that is that 32 of the judges have signed it with a special opinion. This means in simple words that if you suffer damage from an illegal act that is still in effect, you will be able to be compensated, but if it has been declared null or void, you will not have such an opportunity. Such interpretation practically blocks the way for protecting citizens and legal persons from damage caused on this road. It is not only contrary to the spirit of the Act itself on the liability of the State and the municipalities for damages and of art. 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, according to which any citizen who has suffered such damage must be compensated, it is largely contrary to common sense. I think we can achieve a great deal of consensus that this thing needs to be changed. It is indicative that the opinions received to one support such a decision, including the opinion of the Association of Administrative Judges. The second group of changes we are proposing are the result of reports by the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. Such a report is the fifth in a row, by the way, we will be looking at item 4 or 5 of the agenda this week. All reports we have adopted so far in this Chamber contain a finding that there is no general, effective, internal remedies in our country under art. 13 of the Convention. Bulgaria, according to the Ministry of Justice and what is written in these reports, must introduce such a means or combination of such means in order to provide opportunities to deal with complaints about violations of the rights guaranteed by the Convention here in Bulgaria. According to the fifth report, which will be seen shortly by the type of material violations established by the European Court of Human Rights, for which Bulgaria has been convicted, the most numerous are the violations of the right of this particular article. 13, which states that anyone whose rights and freedoms provided for in this Convention are violated must have effective internal remedies independently, even where the infringement has been committed by persons acting in the exercise of his authority. I'd say especially when that happens. Bulgaria has made several commitments to do this, for the last time on 13 April 2018, when we support a Council of Europe Declaration in Copenhagen and commit to create such a means. We propose to move from words to actions and actually create it by, first of all, extending the scope of the Law on State and Municipal Responsibility by introducing legal grounds for seeking such benefits caused by the State through its investigative authorities and the judicial authorities to violate all the rights of the Convention. At present, such an option exists only in respect of art. 5 and 6 of the Convention, namely the right to freedom and security and the right to a fair trial. Together with this, it is explicitly necessary to establish a legal basis for liability when this is the result of administrative activity, and especially when it comes to the activities of the police authorities. With this, we will overcome contradictions in the case-law regarding what administrative activity? As a matter of fact, the latest development of practice is going exactly in the direction of these changes, but we as legislators are obliged to confirm this positive development and, as far as possible, speed it up. The third group of changes that we propose is to clarify in a particular hypothesis where the claim for compensation has been brought before the court, which is also the defendant to it. It is about that hypothesis, in which a particular citizen is being prosecuted in a particular court, he considers that the court has violated his rights in this case, is seeking damages and appears before the same court that he claims to have violated his rights. This, of course, calls into question the impartiality of the court and Bulgaria was sentenced on 5 April last year in the case of Boyan Gospodinov against Bulgaria. We should take steps not to repeat our judgments on the same case. Unfortunately, the Legal Commission was unable to address the issue and the Bill, which was submitted in June. This is due both to the objective burden of the Commission and to the postponement of several times.. in consensus, by the way.. to collect enough opinions and opinions on a complex bill. However, these comments are now available and most of them are positive. The National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria supports the Law. The Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria also expresses support for the Law, especially in its first part. It is somewhat negative, incomprehensible why, the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, but it is appropriate to note that this opinion takes into account only one of the three parts of the Law. I am sure that in a conversation we will find common ground, given that one of the main reasons for taking this initiative is the data written in the reports of the Ministry itself. There is an opinion received by the NGO Association for European Integration and Human Rights, which specializes in keeping and defending interests in the Strasbourg Court, as well as in personal capacity by a judge of the Sofia City Court. Honourable Members, although we have not been able to discuss the Draft of a meeting in the Legal Committee, we have repeatedly had talks on it, and I think we can support at first reading the idea of this bill in its three main parts and between first and second reading seriously enough to pay attention to both the opinions and the necessary amendments that may need to be made in order for it to be a hundred percent efficient. What is important is that these things need to be done, and if they are done quickly enough, they will have the following immediate effects: Bulgarian citizens will be better protected, they will be better compensated, and the Bulgarian state will be sentenced less often at the Strasbourg Court. We ask for your support! [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. I'm opening the debate procedure. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Once again you have the floor for speeches, colleagues. I don't see anyone who wants to. I close the debates and put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for Damage. Vote 161 MPs: 60 against 2, abstention 99. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u6	Mr. Chairman, I want a re-vote, because I'm sure my colleagues have made a mistake. We didn't see it on the Commission for six months, you don't say what you don't like? You know the law is necessary. Please be serious, do not be stubborn, it is important for Bulgarian citizens. [[Noise and lines.]] In five minutes, we will be watching a report showing how much we are paying because we are being condemned in Strasbourg.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u8	What kind of attitude is that? Can you at least tell me what you don't like?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u9	Don't fight, please! [[Noise and lines from GERB. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Re-vote. Vote 154 MPs: 57 against 34, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. We continue with the next item of the Work Programme: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR PROTECTING THE TRADE secret. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will present Mrs. Alexandrova. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Law on the Protection of Commercial Secret, No 902-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2019. At its meeting on 30 January 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Law on the Protection of Commercial Secret, No 902-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Economy: Mrs. Lilia Ivanova Deputy Minister, Mrs. Desislava Georgieva Head of the Department of Establishment and Services and at the Department of Technology Harmonization and Consumer Policies, Mrs. Elitsa Dimova State Expert in the Directorate of Technical Harmonization and Policies for the Users and by the Patent Office: Mrs. Silvia Berkova-Donkova Secretary General, and Mrs. Maya Filipova-Demireva Chief Expert in the Directorate of Industry and Administrative Punitive Activity. The Commercial Secret Protection Bill was presented by Deputy Minister Ivanova, who pointed out that it introduced the requirements of Directive (EU) 2016/943 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of undisclosed know-how and commercial information (commercial secrets) against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. The draft law aims to bring the legal protection of intellectual products, commercial and research information, innovation know-how into line with the requirements of European legislation and to improve the effectiveness of civil law remedies against illegal acquisition, use and disclosure. It shall lay down in detail the proceedings and measures for the protection of commercial secrecy under judicial procedure, the scope of the Law and its main concepts of trade secrecy, the holder of business secrecy, the infringer and the subject of the infringement. The precautionary measures for the protection and their admission, the conditions and arrangements for the establishment of the unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure of commercial secrecy, as well as the award of fair compensation in the event of the misuse of commercial secrecy, thus aiming at uniformising the protection and placing of the holders of commercial secrets in a better position and protection within the national and internal market. The adoption of the Law on the Protection of Commercial Secret increases incentives for business, preserves guarantees for the development of competitiveness, improves conditions for labour mobility and increases the number of jobs. The discussion was attended by the MPs Dimitar Stoyanov, Pencho Milkov and Danail Kirilov. Mr. Stoyanov and Mr. Milkov said they would refrain from supporting the bill by stating that the definition of commercial secrecy is imprecise and would lead to contradictory case law. Mr. Kirilov expressed his support for the Bill and added that it is similar to the instruments used to protect other objects and intellectual and industrial property rights as well as copyrights. He added that the Bulgarian court has a relatively constant caselaw and would not be unclear with the application of the criteria in the proceedings. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Issues with 10 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and 5 votes, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote the Law on Protection of Commercial Secret, No 902-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u11	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. The next report is the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. You have the floor for the presentation of the Report, dear Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds on a Commercial Secret Protection Bill, No 902-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2019. At its regular meeting on 23 January 2019, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Commercial Secret Protection Bill, No 902-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2019. The bill was presented by Mrs. Lilia Ivanova Deputy Minister of Economy. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Desislava Georgieva, Head of Department, Law of Establishment and Services, Directorate, Technical Harmonization and Consumer Policy, Ministry of Economy, and Mrs. Elisa Dilova, State Expert in the same Directorate. The main objective set by the Bill is to bring the existing protection of trade secrets into line with the requirements of European legislation and to improve the effectiveness of the legal protection of trade secrets from illegal acquisition, use and disclosure. Directive (EU) 2016/943 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of undisclosed know-how and commercial information (commercial secrets) against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure was adopted on 8 June 2016. The importers point out that the commercial secret as a concept exists in the Bulgarian legislation, which contains a series of norms for regulating different aspects of its protection, such as in the Commercial Law, the Law on Protection of Competition and others. Under current legislation in this area, commercial secrecy is not considered intellectual property and is not protected as such. The lack of a single definition can be identified as a major disadvantage of the national framework, which often leads to confusion between the different regulations, incorrect application of legal provisions and inconsistent caselaw. The reasons for the bill note that there are no special rules in the current Bulgarian law for the award of compensations for violation of trade secrets. The possible options are based on the general provisions relating to damages provided for in the Law on Obligations and Contracts and in the Law on State liability and the municipalities for damages. Due to the incomplete and fragmentation of the legislative framework in this area, it is necessary to conclude the need for measures to be taken to bring into national law all the elements and means of protecting trade secrecy laid down in Directive (EU) 2016/943. According to the assessment of the impact of the Draft Law on the Protection of Commercial Secrets, there are complex problems in the field of the protection of trade secrets both at market and regulatory level, which are durable in their nature, have demonstrated and have the potential to exhibit their negative effects in a relatively long period. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. From this, importers conclude that a separate, special, new legislation is necessary, whereby the rules of European Union law can be adequately implemented in Bulgarian legislation, which, in turn, should ensure that the objectives and results set by the Directive are effectively achieved at national level. The Bill defines the notions of the........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In addition, the exceptions to the scope of the Bill are provided for and the criteria relevant to the assessment of correctness or wrongfulness of the acquisition, use and disclosure of business secrets are set out. The proceedings and measures for the protection of trade secrets by judicial means shall be regulated. The proposed legal protection mechanisms are expected to minimise the risks of illegal misappropriation of development results, know-how and other valuable data representing commercial secrecy faced by undertakings and research organisations through the Bill. In this way, guarantees will be established that the competitiveness of the Bulgarian business, which is based on this kind of information, is adequately protected, which, in turn, should lead to improvement of the environment for development and use of innovation and transfer of knowledge within the whole internal market of the European Union. The importers are waiting for the Bill to increase innovation and profits for businesses, as well as a significant reduction in the cost of protecting trade secrets and increasing incentives for business. In the subsequent discussion Mr. Petar Petrov, Vice-President of KEVKEF, asked to be explained whether the bill will in any way reflect on the users. The President of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds asked whether the creation of a completely new law in this case is the best option, rather than changing the current legislation. In addition, he expressed his principled support for the Bill and raised the question of whether there were objections to the Bill. Mrs. Ivanova explained that within the working group that prepared the Draft Law, it was concluded that a completely new legal framework was needed. She stressed that the proposed bill thus regulates business relations and in no way affects consumers. Deputy Minister Ivanova added that in the process of coordination there were no objections and the bill allows companies to receive protection. Ms. Georgieva pointed out the participants in the working group, including the Commission for Protection of Competition, the Patent Office and representatives of the Supreme Judicial Council. It assured that the possibilities of the current legislation were thoroughly examined in order to avoid the need to establish a new law, but it was concluded that such was necessary. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed, with 5 votes for the National Assembly, to adopt the Law on the Protection of Commercial Secret, No 902-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Colleagues, you have a say in this. Mr. Milkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will be brief in my speech only to motivate why we will not support the bill, but we will be abstentioned. Since 1993, there have been texts in our trade law that aim to keep trade secrets. There are such texts in the Commercial Law, only it is about single texts. There is one in the general section, but whether it, whether the special texts.. one refers to the commercial commissioners, the other to the auditors, the other to the licensees, does not receive such global protection. At the same time, each commercial enterprise supplies rights, obligations and factual relations. Many times the knowledge, many times the scientific developments are in the computer of the one who develops them in the startups. So these relations must be protected indisputably. However, although we see this problem in 1993, again in the motives of the Bill, we proceed to the legislative procedure because there is a European directive from 2006, because the European Union considers it very important. And it's important, in principle, that we should have arranged it a long time ago. Looking at the Law, we had notes in the Legal Commission.. I will not dwell on everyone, but on at least the definition. The definition contains three points, three requirements for what is a trade secret. I have expressed my opinion. I will also do it to you that the definition does not give an accurate idea that people understand what a trade secret is. It is required to have commercial value due to its secret nature. So the person claiming to create some product to protect it in order to enter the scope of the Law must prove that what it creates has a commercial character, notice precisely because of its secret character. And the person must have taken measures to keep it a secret. The person at the moment when he does not distribute, but creates on his computer a program or idea of something, it is the measure to keep secret. These definitions, these phrases, will suggest one conflicting interpretation, in my view. We have expressed this concern, so in the Legal Committee and here we will abstain at this stage. When optimizing the texts, perhaps between first and second readings, we will take a particular attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor for a statement because my colleague Milkov before me, challenging the Law, explaining why the opposition will not support it, in fact gave the arguments and explained why this bill is valuable and why it is expected from the Bulgarian legal system for more than 25 years. Yes, indeed, the matter of protecting trade secret is largely fragmented, it is found in several acting laws. Yes, there is generally a general possibility to seek the violated rights of abuse of commercial secrecy, of know-how, of factual situation, but in view of the difficulties in proving in practice this happens rarely and more difficult. I say that this law was expected for 25 years because Bulgarian traders need protection, they need a guarantee that their factual achievements in the commercial activity will receive respectively the relevant legal protection, and in a normal order. Yes, here, in any case, European law has a catalysmic effect obviously on the Bulgarian legislative process. I do not think that, in this case, we are blindly applying directives on the contrary, from the Bill that we examined in the Legal Commission, we see that there are some very serious researches and analyses of this complex matter. So I appeal to all my colleagues, including the opposition: support this bill! It is not for the left or right, but for all traders, for the people of intellectual labor, for people who in one way or another achieve improvements that cannot be qualified as patents, useful models or design. It's business-related stuff. We all argue that we support business, we want our business to produce on the basis of creativity, but we still refuse it on one occasion or another on the other occasion of this legal protection. Regarding the analysis of the concept, we argued with colleague Milkov and the Legal Commission, I do not know whether it is appropriate to carry this debate here at first reading. Undoubtedly, definition matters. I would also comment on some of the elements in this definition, but that is why it is the second reading to make proposals, I hope, from a maximum number of MPs. Not as in the previous bill to explain how an idea is very genius, how we should implement a single report. We, for half a year in the Legal Committee, are talking about how it is good to develop the procedure, to be ready for the individual proposals of our colleagues and to have no consequences. I am using this case to explain our passive attitude in the previous bill that is why it is. The opposition should be more active than the management in the phase proposals between first and second readings. Obviously, it is easier to politicize a legal debate than to be constructive and pragmatic. I address your pragmatism, colleagues, and I believe that now is the time to show our attitude towards the development of the Bulgarian national business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? You have the floor, dear Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleague Kirilov, honourable colleagues! I use the right to a reply, first of all, to tell you that we expected you to take account of the previous bill. In an unacceptable way and again with silence our bill was rejected. More unacceptable! Now, in your speech on the next bill, it is simply wrong. With this I started that since 1993 Bulgaria has begun to realize the importance of the need to protect the trade secret................. we are of one opinion. I turned to my colleagues and to you with the following remark: the definition in this way, regardless of the efforts you have put into it, will create difficulties in my opinion and I explained to you why the notions are taking place. A person, for example, can now claim that something is secret if it is on his computer, and once you accept this norm, apart from being on his computer, will have to prove what measures he took to protect, and what is its commercial value because it was a secret. I made that clear to you. Therefore, we will be abstentioned. Next, regarding the proposals between first and second readings. Our Rules explicitly state that the proposals between first and second readings must correspond to the spirit of the bill adopted at first reading. We from BSP for Bulgaria are following this principle, unlike many of the proposals you make between first and second readings. Therefore, when a draft law on his philosophy is not adopted by us, we cannot correct it with proposals between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. Another line? I can't see. Dear Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Milkov, I do not want to repeat the debate by the Legal Committee. Matter is such that there is greater flexibility in the forms of proof. I gave you an example in the presence of representatives of the Patent Office of how the use or subsequent use of trademarks was proven by all evidence. So this will also prove the care for security of information as confidential information or the object concerned. With regard to the period that you dated, yes, the development of the new Bulgarian legislation on the protection of the objects of industrial and intellectual property has started, more or less of this period. I take this opportunity to pay tribute to a fellow lawyer from the first National Assembly, after the Grand National Assembly, Ilko Eskenazy, who made great efforts to adopt the first Law on Copyright and Related Rights. So don't worry about it here. I also said that the Bulgarian legal system, in relation to industrial property and patent law, has been integrated with European and world law. That's why it was a long time ago to give a more detailed mapping system and commercial secrecy. There is no apologist of the legislation to explain the meaning and meaning of exactly this regulatory decision that the Ministry of Economy and the Council of Ministers have adopted, but I think it deserves its support. I believe that matter is for codification. Again, if you have a problem with one of the criteria, with one of the elements of the triad, do a comparative study with the brands, with industrial designs and patents, see how the hierarchy of the criteria goes and how the novelty is proven. I invite you again, however, to participate in the debate on second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. I am closing the debates and putting to the vote a Law on the Protection of Commercial Secret, No 902-01-1, tabled by the Council of Ministers. They voted 120 MPs: 90, against 3, abstention 27. The offer is accepted. Let's move on to the next point: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE MEMORANDUM FOR THE RESTRUCTURING BETWEEN THE MINISTRY OF THE MEETING OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, THE MINISTERATION OF THE REST OF THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA, THE MINISTERATION OF THE MEETING OF THE HUNGARY AND THE MINISTERATION OF THE RECEIVED OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA ON THE ESTABLISHING OF THE MULTIAL PROGRAMMY FOR THE SUBSTITUTION OF AVIATION FOR SPECIAL OPERATIONS (MPPASO). Importer is the Council of Ministers. Here you are, Mr. Popov, to present the Defence Committee Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe of the Defence Committee on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of Hungary and Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia on the establishment of a Multinational Aviation Training Programme for Special Operations (MPPASO), No 902-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 January 2019. At a regular meeting held on 31 January 2019, the Defence Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of Hungary and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia on the establishment of a Multinational Air Training Programme for Special Operations, No 902-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 January 2019. The draft was presented on behalf of the importers by the Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zapreyanov, who in his exhibition followed the development of the initiative between the four countries from the signing of letters of intent between the respective ministries of defence and the headquarters of defence until the approval of the memorandum by the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Deputy Minister Zaprianov justified the need for participation of the country in the establishment of the Common Multinational Aviation Training Programme for Special Operations, pointing out that the creation of such a common framework for cooperation between the four countries is within the NATO Planning Process. Its main objective is to provide participants with a key organisational and functional ability to prepare, which is an addition to other multinational and national capabilities to achieve the full range of capabilities required to maintain an aviation formation for special operations. In the Memorandum are described the main provisions on the creation and future development of the Programme and the Center itself, its basic structure, organisation, responsibilities, opportunities for improvement and financial commitments. The functioning of the Programme is based on the principles of proportionality of the participation of the countries, and the host country Croatia, in whose territory the base structure will be located, has a commitment to ensure the infrastructure. Preparation and capabilities will be based both on theoretical training and by creating adequate capabilities during joint exercises and training. Under the circumstances that the Memorandum requires financial obligations of the country and on the grounds of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Council of Ministers proposes that the National Assembly ratify it. Following the discussion of the Bill and the unanimous opinion on support, a vote was held. By 18 votes for the defence committee expressed the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to support the First Voting Draft for the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of Hungary and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia on the establishment of a Multinational Air Training Programme for Special Operations, No 902-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 January 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u23	Thank you, my dear General. The next report belongs to the Budget and Finance Committee. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor for the presentation of the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Your attention is: ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of Hungary and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia on the establishment of a Multinational Air Training Programme for Special Operations (MPPASO), signed on 4 October 2018, No 902-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 January 2019. At a regular meeting held on 24 January 2019, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of Hungary and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia on the establishment of a Multinational Air Training Programme for Special Operations (MPPASO), signed on 4 October 2018, No 902-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 January 2019. The bill was presented by Mr. Atanas Zapreyanov, Deputy Minister of Defence. On 3 October 2018, the Council of Ministers approved as a basis for negotiating a draft Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of Hungary and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia (Participants) on the establishment of a Multinational Air Training Programme for Special Operations (multinational Programme). The Memorandum was signed by the Bulgarian side on 4 October 2018. The objective of this Memorandum of Understanding is to establish a common framework between participants for the establishment and operation of a multinational aviation training programme for special operations. The document describes in detail the objectives of the multinational programme and the basic structure, including scope, organisation and financial obligations. The functioning of the Programme shall be based on the principles of proportionality of the participation of the Parties and the possibility of the selection of their national representatives. Given that the Memorandum contains financial obligations for the State and on the grounds of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Council of Ministers proposes to the National Assembly to ratify the Memorandum by law. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 19 votes for the draft, no objection and abstention. The Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to support the First Voting Draft for the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of Hungary and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia on the establishment of a Multinational Air Training Programme for Special Operations (MPPASO), signed on 4 October 2018, No 902-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 January 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. The report of the Foreign Policy Committee "You have the floor, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u26	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of Hungary and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia on the establishment of a Multinational Air Training Programme for Special Operations (MPPASO), No 902-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 January 2019. At a regular meeting held on 23 January 2019, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the legislation tabled by the Council of Ministers, which is subject to ratification by the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The reasons under the bill were presented by Atanas Zapreyanov "Deputy Minister of Defence" as follows: By Decision of Protocol No 38 of the Council of Ministers on 3 October 2018, the Council of Ministers approved as a basis for negotiation a draft Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of Hungary and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia on the establishment of a Multinational Aviation Training Programme for Special Operations. The Memorandum was signed by the Bulgarian side on 4 October 2018. The Memorandum shall enter into force after the completion of the national ratification procedures of all four participating countries and shall have an initial validity period of 30 years from the date of its entry into force. The Memorandum may subsequently be extended year-to-year with silent consent if the Participating Parties do not decide unanimously to terminate it. The operational costs of that memorandum will be covered by the participating countries through financial contributions approved by the Multinational Executive Board. The participating countries will share the maintenance costs of the Memorandum by paying contributions. As a basic principle, it is considered that each Party Party shall have the right to use the Memorandum to a level proportionate to its financial contribution or to any other kind of contribution as accepted by all Parties Parties. Given that the Memorandum contains financial obligations for the State and on the grounds of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Council of Ministers proposes to the National Assembly to ratify the Memorandum by law. After hearing the reasons for the draft Law, a discussion and a vote was held, which resulted in 13 votes for the resolution of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of Hungary and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia on the establishment of a multinational aviation training programme for special operations (MPPASO). Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u27	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. Colleagues, you have a say in this. I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I am putting to the vote a bill of debate. Vote 87 MPs: 86 against 1, no abstentions. The bill has been passed. You have the floor for procedure, General Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the so-called bill be reviewed at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u29	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. 90 MPs voted: 87, against 1, abstention 2. The procedural proposal has been accepted. You have the floor to present the Second Voting Bill, Mr. General.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u30	The Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of Hungary and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia on the establishment of a Multinational Air Training Programme for Special Operations (MPPASO).
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u31	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I'm voting on the name of the Law. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u32	I'm the only one. He established a Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of Hungary and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia on the establishment of a Multinational Air Training Programme for Special Operations (MPPASO), signed on 4 October 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u33	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text of a single member of the Law on the text of the importer. They voted 101 MPs: for 100, against 1, no abstentions. Sustained. We continue with the next item of the work programme: ANNUAL REPORT OF THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE ON THE APPLICATION OF THE DECISIONS OF THE EUROPEAN COURT ON THE RIGHTS OF THE HUMAN IN CASE OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA FOR 2017 Importer is the Council of Ministers, 11 June 2018. Joint Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Human Rights You have the floor to present the report, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before that, colleagues, I am making a procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber of Deputy Minister Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u35	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 99 MPs: 95 against 1, abstention 3. The offer is accepted. Please invite Deputy Minister Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u36	♪ I can't believe on an annual report by the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 802-00-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 June 2018. At a joint meeting held on 21 November 2018, on the basis of art. 112, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Religions and Human Rights discussed the Annual Report of the Minister of Justice on the Implementation of the Decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017. The meeting was attended by: Prof. Nikolay Prodanov, Deputy Minister, Mrs. Milena Kotseva, Director of the Directorate of the Republic of Bulgaria before the European Court of Human Rights. The annual report was presented by Professor Prodanov, who pointed out that it was structured in three parts, with up-to-date information on the number of pending complaints to the European Court of Human Rights, the number of judgment decisions for 2017 and some of the important decisions of the court. The Deputy Minister said that according to the criterion, a number of pending complaints to the European Court of Human Rights for 2017. Bulgaria again ranks 15th with 623 complaints. The decisions made in cases against Bulgaria are 65, of which 31 are the judgment decisions, 2. Further decisions on the issue of benefits, 6.. acquitted decisions in substance, 14 decisions by which the court rejected the appeals as inadmissible, and 12 decisions by which the claims are deleted from the list of cases. The second part of the report contains information on the decisions of the court against Bulgaria in the implementation phase, positive changes in legislation and practice as a result of the judgment decisions of the court. Prof. Prodanov added that the total number of implementation decisions on 31 December 2017 was 207, of which 77 were precedents and the rest found repeated violations. In comparison with the previous year, the total number of pending cases on 31 December 2016 was 290 and the precedents were 94. In 2017, the monitoring of 116 decisions was closed, of which 28 precedents and 88 decisions with repeated violations, while in 2016 the monitoring of 31 solutions was completed. The Deputy Minister pointed out the more important groups of decisions on which the monitoring was closed, which are: the groups of "Kitov against Bulgaria" and "Jiangozov against Bulgaria" and the group of "Angelova and Iliev" and the group of "Bochev" against Bulgaria. Surveillance in 20 more precedent cases is also closed. Significant progress has been made on the implementation of a number of decisions. "Neshkov and others against Bulgaria " and the group of decisions "Kehayov versus Bulgaria ", concerning the conditions in the places of imprisonment; the group "Vestosar Petrov versus Bulgaria ".............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Professor Prodanov pointed out that the third part of the report concerns problems arising from court decisions which need to be taken further measures to successfully implement the decisions and prevent future violations of the Convention. He added that in an enhanced monitoring procedure there are a number of cases affecting difficulties in the proceedings relating to housing of juvenile homes; the criminal process; the secrecy of judgments of the Supreme Administrative Court; the recognition and establishment of origin; the enforcement of judgments by state institutions; the registration of religion; the freedom of the media and the freedom of expression, as well as certain aspects of citizens' electoral rights and the right to education. The discussion was attended by the MPs Krasimir Velchev, Vasil Antonov and Danail Kirilov, who said they would support the Annual Report of the Minister of Justice. In response to Mr. Velchev's question regarding the publicity of the decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court in cases containing classified information, Mrs. Stancheva Chinova pointed out that there is still no clarity as to the need for changes in the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. She added that further questions have been received at the Ministry of Justice from the Department of Justice.The implementation of the decisions to the Committee of Ministers, which are in the process of translation and preparation for sending the Supreme Administrative Court for an opinion. In response to Mr. Velchev's question regarding the upcoming changes to the Institute, the change of the minimum amount of fines imposed under art. 146 and 148a of the Penal Code, and the abolition of the qualified composition under art. 148, para. 1, t. 3 of the Penal Code Ms. Stancheva Chinova pointed out that the working group had completed its work on the bill, which will be declared public discussion. Mr. Kirilov expressed his satisfaction with the significant changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure, in the regulation adopted by the Ministry of Justice on the implementation of the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention, adding that they should continue their efforts in this direction. Following the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 13 votes for the European Court of Human Rights, without abstention, supported the Annual Report submitted by the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 802-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 June 2018. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights, with 13 votes for the European Court of Human Rights, supported the Annual Report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 802-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 June 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u37	Would you also present the draft decision, Mrs. Atanasova?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u38	Of course. I present, Project! DECISION on the Annual Report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u39	Thank you. Honourable Members, you have the floor to speak. You have the floor, dear Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u40	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At a joint meeting of the Legal Commission and the Committee on Religions, I and my colleagues voted for this report, not so much because of what it says, it is publicly known, but because of the idea of having such a procedure. There hasn't always been such a procedure. This is only the fifth report, there has been one for five years. It was introduced, by the way, with another GERB government by Minister Diana Kovacheva, if I am not mistaken. The idea of having such a procedure is for the National Assembly to be informed on a regular basis what is happening in Strasbourg so that it can take action to stop happening. Many of the decisions on which we are condemned in Strasbourg are repeated, have a systematic character and require legal changes to be overcome. This report must therefore be examined here so that we can, as a result, take the necessary measures. After what happened this morning, I can no longer support this report because I do not believe in its meaning. I'll tell you why. On page 3 of the Report it says that by the type of material violations of the Convention given by the Court of Justice for the last year, the most numerous are violations of the right to effective internal remedies. 13. It is the overcoming of this weakness that we offered you here 15 minutes ago. It is because of these reports that we have given you a way to prevent people from finding justice in their own country and taking advantage of international courts for it. You rejected it without debate, without clear reasons, ensuring that next year at the same time we will see a report with the same findings. Just like we did four times back. Well, then why do you need this? Why is it necessary, except to give some artificial legitimization that something is happening?! Behind the man-loving tone and respect for human rights, which lies in this report, is the bitter reality in this room that none of what is happening there specifically affects what we are doing here. The consequences of this are very severe. They are measured in money because when a Bulgarian citizen condemns us there, all taxpayers pay. As will become known, Bulgaria has never exercised its right to a regression claim to seek the money from that official who is guilty of the infringement. That is, from our investigations here Bulgarian citizens lose money. The second big problem is the image problem. That Bulgaria is among the countries that are often condemned in Strasbourg. Although the report tries to draw some positive trend, we are in the 15th place, which is in the first half of the countries that are condemned. The lack of, the low trust in the Bulgarian judiciary makes people more and more often look out and we do nothing here to change it. Instead, we're dealing with a fake. I can give you at least three examples: the first is your vote this morning. The second is the obligation that any act of the Council of Ministers is accompanied by a reference to compliance with the Convention. Yes, but that's what happens when laws come from the Council of Ministers. They come less and less from there. One of the reasons why there is no such reference. The same happened with the good idea of assessing the impact of the Bill, which is implemented only formally. This report is ultimately a formalist and a forgery. I was ready to support him, to support the idea of having a procedure like this to keep us in class, but now I can't legitimize a senseless behavior. We are strongly opposed to this report because it will have no consequences, but it is therefore not the authors of the report who are to blame. That's why it's your fault. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Any lines to Mr. Zarkov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u42	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Firstly, I would like to express my thanks to the team of the Ministry of Justice for presenting, for the fifth time in a row, the results of the implementation and implementation of the European Court of Human Rights decisions. In any case, I believe that this, as the previous speaker said, is not an attempt to outline a positive trend. On the contrary, this is a lasting positive trend. In recent years, I have had the opportunity to monitor reports on the implementation of the European Court of Justice decisions, and I believe that much of the systemic problems have been overcome. This is taken into account in both monitoring and monitoring and in our communication with the European partners and with the European Commission. In the past year, the Bulgarian legislator has made very little effort to make effective changes to the legislation so that such lasting problems can be overcome. I would say that a legislative response system has already been established. I hope that this reaction will be appropriately and symmetrically established in all other institutions in our country. I will not be concerned with specific cases and problems, nor will I repeat the statistics that have been reflected in the report and, I would say, that our success rate compared to the data in this statistics is rising. So this is proof of the words and conclusions I just made. The colleague, who is not in the Chamber now, will continue to comment all day on the Bill on this. 1. In view of this, I, too, tried to point out some of the problems of his legislative initiative in the previous debate. Here, however, after this re-emphasizing tone, I will be specific. I personally assisted my colleague to discuss his bill with the Supreme Administrative Court judges. The problem with this bill is that it is a naked declaration without procedure. And if we record this naked declaration, we will not even seem to comply with the relevant decisions of the European Court of Justice. It is obvious that the concern of the colleague is not so much for implementing decisions and improving legislation, and his care and problem is to raise slogans from here. His efforts are not only observed in the legal debate here. They have expanded, multiplied unsubstantiatedly, even, I would say, highly slanderous attacks on specific legislative initiatives, which is hardly by ignorance or not reading the relevant bill. I mean, this debate is hard to get to the truth. Yes, so we can achieve some delusion in our constituents, but it is short-lived. Again, if colleague Zarkov is so jealous that we can apply the three groups of his laconic suggestions, let him develop them and procedurally. I will cooperate with him, as I have cooperated with him during these seven months, in connection with his legislative initiative, I say again, on this point. 1 on the agenda, but vows, bullshit, slamming off the stands, please, forget it! You can't lie to your constituents in Vidin and Montana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. First line, Mr. Kutev. Second line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u44	Dear Mr. Kirilov, frankly, I did not intend to speak on this point, but your statement and specifically Krum Zarkov's intervention in it challenged me. I think I know you and him well. The charges in the stands almost didn't read, to tell you, knowing you well, one of them reads more. [[Comments from GERB: "On the topic. "]] On the subject of speech, on what he's saying. Didn't your colleague Kirilov say he was talking nonsense? That's what I'm talking about, on the speech of my colleague Kirilov. If you want to go out and talk, don't give me any sense to say anything. Everything you've said must have a certain amount of fellowship. I think she's gone. Moreover, if we go back to the subject of the report itself, of course there are specific things that I will use at least one minute to mention, but for me the problem that the sentences in Strasbourg have been following one after another for years for similar reasons, that the majority of the reason for these sentences stands here, before us, that is, the people who instigated the actions that lead to the sentences are here and continue to behave in the same way, to lead to the same consequences, is huge. That's exactly what you're legitimizing right now. This problem is not only for you, it is a problem for both them and Bulgaria and for your entire parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Second line, Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Kirilov, law-making and legislative process had it long before GERB, thank God, there will be it long after GERB. It neither starts with you nor will it end with you and it is not good to give assessments and qualifications from this platform for the quality of the laws that we offer or are offered in the Chamber at all. I would like to ask you: which law proposed by us have you adopted in this National Assembly, is there any? Of course, he will always not meet your criteria, because this law.. whoever he is, in this case the law proposed by colleague Zarkov, we are talking about him, and you talked about him, it is about solving real problems of society, not lobbying interests, and therefore, of course, he will not be accepted by you. Don't give such assessments from the platform of colleague Zarkov because he is a representative of the National Assembly and representative of the Bulgarian National Assembly who is active and makes laws that really concern important and serious problems. As you can see from the report of the Minister of Justice, you do not like the findings in it so much. I will make my statement in this direction shortly, but thanks to such laws, which please you and like you, Bulgaria pays more than 17 million so far in the European Court of Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Third line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, I understand that personal capacity does not always allow you to monitor the debates that are going to the National Assembly and in time to take regard of them. Perhaps that is also the reason why you take note of item one of today's agenda when we are discussing item three. It is good to focus, Mr. Kirilov, on the problems we are discussing. When we are discussing item one and we have a legislative initiative, then you should consider them. Otherwise, the impression of a retard is created. Thank you. [[Voices from GERB: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u49	Please, Mr. Ermenkov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u50	I said there was an impression, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u51	Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u52	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! No, I don't want a punishment from my colleague, Tasco Ermenkov, and I don't take offense to his insane claim. He did not understand that I also spoke on item two according to your countdown, because you are one point behind the agenda. I didn't speak then to spare my colleagues as importers. Because I think we worked together for six months on this bill, and we could really do something about it if someone, Mr. Kutev, was sitting down to write, to do their job. And you don't understand. [[Replication by National Representative Cornelia Ninova]] I haven't measured reading... Mrs. Ninova, if you want to tell me something, come and tell me from the stands. I can't hear you like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u53	The hole, Mr. Kirilov, proceed to the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u54	I'm curious that you're replicating me in some way, and I can see the excitement in you, but I don't understand you. [[Voices from the BSP for Bulgaria: "Eee!," applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u55	Proceed to the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u56	Regarding reading, Mr. Kutev. I don't know exactly what you know, your conclusions were very significant in that sense. I did not dispute the fact that my colleague Krum Zarkov, whom I did not mention by name in my speech, did not say that he had not read. On the contrary, I expressed my conviction that he had read. The point is, he's manipulating what he read. Regarding your Filipicas to guilty persons for judgmental decisions. I'll say it's too personal. I know about your thesis, I know about your battle, you have addressed it to the chairman of our parliamentary group not once in the stands. I wouldn't want to be an arbitrator in this debate of yours. I believe that as Interior Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria during the first government of Boyko Borisov, Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov performed his duties, tasks and commitments in good faith, including in the fight against organised crime, including in the fight against corruption. It is obvious that some people are affected by this. It's obviously affected, since the moisture still holds. [[Voices and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In terms of total size...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u57	Get it over with, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u58	I want to answer all charges, Madam President, but obviously it will be difficult.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u59	Okay, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u60	In total, quoting 15 or 17 million. Colleagues, you mean the total amount for all years until now during which the compensation regime has been applied. On an annual basis the regime, see the references, in the reports of the Supreme Judicial Council, does not exceed a million, but this is not an excuse. I take it that's not an excuse! Our goal is not so much not to pay, but, as has been said, and justly on your part, to restore trust in our justice system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Popov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll start with a little statistic: 22 years, 2 months and 28 days. This is not a sentence, but the time during which a case for theft continued in the Republic of Bulgaria 22 years, 2 months and 28 days! This case is about theft of two perpetrators. A few more statistics: from 2001 to the present... 17 million. Seven hundred and £400. the compensation paid for judgmental decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. On my question to the Minister of Finance, how many regression cases have been brought by the Ministry to these employees since 2005, the answer is zero. Zero regression cases! In Bulgaria, 10 thousand. lv. is the maximum amount of compensation for slow justice, which I said before: 22 years, 2 months and 28 days. This is the maximum amount for slow justice. As you have seen, these are not the dimensions that the European Court of Human Rights awards. The annual report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 I think it is yet another reason to take stock and answer the questions: what is the result of these judgment decisions; what is the result of these repeated violations; what is the lasting trend of increase due to? On a non-working and self-sufficient judicial system; a judicial system that is in conflict of interest, family and economic dependencies, a system of impunity and untouchable. In a vicious and poor legislative process that is dominated by the ruling majority, often covering up as a fig leaf fighting lobbying interests. A legislative process without purpose, with formal assessments of the impact of legislation and non-compliance with fundamental principles of law. The chaos in the parliamentary committees, where we are expected to take a very reasonable and informed opinion on draft laws within 48 hours, committees without real working rules for work and those with formal rules of work, ensuring the brutal imposition of judicial decisions taken in their party plants. There's a lot more to talk about, but unfortunately, that's the facts. Trust in the judiciary is critically low, even worse it is in the National Assembly. The findings in the Annual Report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 prove it in a truly indisputable way: the measures described to improve the situation are inadequate. They only strengthen the conviction that this government and this Minister of Justice cannot handle it. People and we will believe you when we see clear procedural rules that guarantee: - expanding the spheres of conflict of interest in the human rights authorities as a guarantee to curb corruption and restore confidence in them; - the country's regress to the guilty persons whose actions or omissions have led to judgmental decisions under the State's liability law and the municipalities for damages; - the responsibility of the disciplinary and disciplinary officials responsible for the non-execution of the relevant regression claims; - removing economic barriers for citizens and businesses to justice. It is unacceptable for justice to be equivalent to the price of the service; it is unacceptable for collective claims relating above all to the outrage of natural monopolies to be asked by the wrongdoers to provide evidence of their abilities. I quote: "Seriously and in good faith to protect the damaged interest, as well as to bear the burdens associated with the handling of the case, including the costs. The Court, honourable Members of the National Assembly, is not a place where the service is bought, but a place where you receive justice and retribution; - transparency and publicity of the activities of the judicial authorities reflected in their rules of activity. The GDPR or the protection of personal data is not a reason for opaqueness and uncontrolledness; - quality, objective, non-controversial legislative process based on the principles of law and not on lobbying interests and blind imitation; - termination of practice laws per piece and laws for the laws themselves. Legislative process, the basis of which is the interest of Bulgaria and of the Bulgarian; - the inclusion of the entire intellectual potential of the nation in the initiation by the Council of Ministers of regulatory proposals; - it is unacceptable for bills to be prepared by law firms of the parallel state; - the termination of formal assessments of the impact of legislation, the introduction of clear models and professional criteria for this; - adequate rules and deadlines for the work of the National Assembly and the committees thereto; - putting an end to the law prematures of principles: we wanted for good, but we served the oligarchs and their parallel state again. It is unacceptable for committees to have no rules of employment, and if they do, they should be inadequate. Mrs. President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Minister of Justice, who is absent...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u63	The Deputy Minister is here!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u64	...who is absent, I said.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u65	Minister Tsacheva is involved.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u66	If we do not make this trust, the trust in the state will be ruined, the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria will multiply. I notice the great interest in this House in this topic, but it is this great interest that has led to and will lead to more judgmental sentences against the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u68	I'm gonna have to ask you to extend the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u69	Increase the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today, once again, for another year, we are looking at a report which clearly does not go largely into the minds and sensations of fellow Members of Parliament, especially from the majority. My fellow Members, our group will vote against it, although perhaps there is reason to support it, because the findings that are being made inside deserve attention. Because inside this report we see a very sustainable trend of the work of the judicial authorities in Bulgaria to the detriment of the Bulgarian citizens, a trend that shows insolence and attitude towards those who are accustomed to committing a crime, and then the state throws them aside and they have to seek their rights in the European institutions. This report is closed in only one case studies, namely where they condemn the state to the European Court of Justice. We are missing some small details, perhaps for you, where citizens condemn the state here because we have such a law that allows Bulgarian citizens to sue the state here for damages during such criminal cases. The bad news is, honourable Members, and especially you, of the majority, that you are not taking any note of what is happening, of having a permanent trend of stagnation and of raising these judgmental sentences. Money is being spent from the state treasury, money is being spent from the taxpayer's pocket for this, first of all, that you are adopting laws that open a wide door to iniquities, and elsewhere, that there is no responsibility for those who cause this damage to Bulgarian citizens. The colleague Popov was extremely punctual and very accurately described to you what happened over the years. We do not understand why, first of all, this morning you did not adopt this bill, which would discipline everyone who has done such damage to Bulgarian citizens and, accordingly, the state has been condemned. Mr. Kirilov is talking about moisture. Who's he gonna hold that in, Mr. Kirilov? Those who have been thrown in prison for years have entered their houses with machine guns? How many colleagues were scared, as they once said, entering their homes and then condemning the state? Who paid the bill? The Bulgarian taxpayer paid for it. Who did you call for regress? No one. Who paid the bill? Guilty faces are known, including in this room, waving finger from the stands, giving press conferences, some lying on their stomachs, others lying on their backs. Who paid the bill? The ones who sent you here paid for it. And what do you tell them today? Gentlemen, it's okay, we'll keep it that way, let it keep you wet. Your Prime Minister told you, I'll give you the blue light. Who are you lighting it to? The Bulgarian citizens. What are you telling them? We will continue in this spirit. Look out! Look out! Maybe it's a sign to the opposition as well. Be careful, opposition, because we'll go in there with you, and then you mind your own business and do whatever you want. How many convictions are there just for last year? The report's been written. How much money has been spent? What are we doing? Tell me, Mr. Kirilov, how many are there? Is that for moisture?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u71	Tell us how many are there?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u72	And who will return this money, Mr. Kirilov, who will return it to the treasury? That's the question. Because they may be a million, they may be 500 thousand, they may be 20 thousand, but they are the result of someone's overdoing and someone's work which has led to the damage of the Bulgarian treasury. And some Bulgarian citizen and his family will feel like animals in a cage because it is mentally planted in order to maybe keep them moisture. Therefore, this report will not be supported, there is no way, although there may be a reason to support it. Let it be known that every year a report is inserted here, which puts Bulgarian voters on the slaughters, Bulgarian citizens, because it says to them: Dear Bulgarian citizens, any moment the police can invade you, you, if you want, then judge yourself. You could be sent to jail at any moment, but no one is responsible for that. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u73	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. First line, Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u74	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleague Ivanov, and who will return the benefits paid in 2000, in 2005, in 2007? Who? Has the parliament then seen, even discussed the application of the judgments of the European Court of Justice? You have MPs here from that time, ask them. Have you discussed in this Chamber the outcome of the application of the judgments of the European Court of Justice? You probably didn't discuss them. Would you like me to read to you a lawyer, a doctor in the legislative process, who discussed the legislation in 2006 - 2007? The problems are much more than they are now. Sometimes bills are the product of random ideas and ad hoc ambitions, there is no systematized and conceptualized state legislative policy. The bills do not clearly define the place of the future law in the judiciary, there is no social economic analysis, it is forgotten to analyse and summarize the applied practice. Preliminary expertise should be made on constitutionality bills, colleagues. It's 2006 - 2007. Professor Sredkova was quoted as a source. In this analysis is applied... Do you want to, because you often love this thesis? Example: The VAT Act amended three times before it entered, this is 2007, colleagues, and many times after its entry. A list follows, you see, of at least 15 legal acts, which during this period have unstable legislative practice. Colleagues, define the purpose of the debate.. or comment on the legislation, or comment on the efforts, in this case of the Ministry of Justice, to implement the decisions of the European Court of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u76	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kirilov, from what we have said here, it really suits the most as a chronicle of management 2009 - 2019, the 10-year period of GERB. [[Noise and lines.]] Just to remind you that what you are talking about right now, Mr. Kirilov, refers to the period before Bulgaria enters the European Union. You know that this was a period of adaptation of the legislation, so you can safely attach it, Mr. Kirilov, quite calmly put it on as a brooch on the lapel for the management of GERB. This is your legislation, you read the diagnosis. And speaking of convictions, ask for 2005 "2006." We're talking about 400 thousand, 300 thousand and suddenly a progression. In 2009 the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Three and a half million, two million, three million, one million and four hundred thousand levs. What are we talking about? You can see the stats. You're talking about past times, I'm talking about now. My colleague Popov went to all the trouble, gave them to me, and I can see them. The question is: who will pay the bill? Who's gonna pay the bill? It is paid by Bulgarian citizens who break into their houses with machine guns, put their children in their eyes, take them out, bring them in, make a second record, then what else do they not do? There's been a lawsuit for years and there's no one to pay the bill, Mr. Kirilov. This morning we gave you a chance, we gave you a chance, and you blew it. So I say to you again: you will remain in history like those who enter people's houses, arrest them, humiliate them, and then pay the bill all. Thank you. [[Noise and lines, single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Any other speeches? Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u78	Dear Bulgarian citizens, the report we are looking at today is neither a formal act nor another report. This document concerns the foundations of our public relations and is a deep problem of the rule of law. There are three problems in the report and on this subject and one solution. The three problems are as follows. First, the prime minister, ministers, MPs and representatives of the judiciary, who are authorized by you, are taking away your rights. Those who have authorized you to rule, take away your rights. [[Noise and lines.]] The second problem is that you pay for it. Because, after you are disbarred and sentenced in Strasbourg, each one of you pays this compensation, the one with the minimum wage, and the one with the average salary, and the one who lives below the poverty line, takes the little money you have and pays for the fact that the government has taken your rights. The third problem is that these rulers remain unpunished. There is one solution, it was written a long time ago in Bulgarian law and it is not about personal attitude, but about compliance with the laws of the state. This law states that those who have done this damage intentionally or in the event of gross negligence of the State, or of citizens, by unlawful acts or omissions, in the event of the performance of their duties must be liable by paying out of their pocket for what they have done to you. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 101 states that the responsibility of those responsible to the State for payment of benefits is carried out in full. Here, this law is not implemented, and this is the solution, honourable Bulgarian citizens. Because when a politician or civil servant overwhelms your rights, but knows that you will have to pay out of your pocket what will be awarded to us as compensation, you will wonder if you will. I have nothing personal, but, Prime Minister, I ask you: when are you going to file a case against Boyko Borisov for being convicted in one case for 55 thousand. Euros? We want to know: when will there be a case Boyko Borisov against Boyko Borisov? Or, Mr. Borisov, when will you execute the law and bring a case against Tsvetan Tsvetanov for six cases in which we are sentenced for 120 thousand. Euros? It will be interesting: Borisov against Tsvetanov, but in the name of the people.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u79	What law does that say?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u80	Because that's what the law says, not because we have a personal relationship with these things, mate. I appeal to the Bulgarian citizens: be brave and protect your rights, defend them, fight for them, do not be afraid! You have a commitment from us if one day and when that day comes, we win elections and rule the country. [[GERB noise and lines]] , to bring the claims against those who took away your rights, which is why you paid for it, and they continue to unpunishedly destroy the foundations of the rule of law, the foundations of the Constitution of the Republic and the stability of public relations in Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Mr. Kirilov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u82	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Ninova, you've obviously been in the process of legal escalation of various these since yesterday. I don't get it. 106 of which law did you quote. It is right as a lawyer to quote correctly the legal act to which you refer. Secondly, I would like to ask you this. You suggest to the Bulgarian citizens that, if you see, these judgments of the European Court of Justice are not implemented. Who are not implemented by the Bulgarian justice system, by the executive authority, by the subject Hicks? Who doesn't? You can see in the Report what is the diversity of these 207 solutions. Apart from the 77 decisions that are precedent, others can group. Who? I remind you that the Bulgarian judge Botusharova in the European Court tried to completely change Bulgarian legislation regarding the restitution. Did you know that there was an interpretation of the respected Supreme Court of Cassation as to what is the stability of administrative acts in restitution? It turned out that what five, six or seven parliaments voted was not the case. The Bulgarian state did not understand the restitution at all. According to Mrs. Botusharova, a judge in the Court of Justice had to return property inside kindergartens, inside hospitals, inside public property. In short, Madam President, when you condemn yourself for the Technoimpex, then ask Boyko Borisov when he will judge himself! [[Applause from GERB.]] When you condemn Rumen Ovcharov for Belene and for the procedure in quotes, which he then produced, then ask when Borisov will judge Tsvetanov. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line? Mr. Mitev, come in. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u84	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Mrs. Ninova, I would have believed that you were genuinely concerned about all Bulgarian citizens as taxpayers if you, during your management in 2005 - 2009 of the Triple Coalition, as Deputy Minister, had insisted that this demand for responsibility by the guilty persons be realized. Now you say, for example: "Look, we had such a policy during our governance. Now this policy is not followed. That's the wrong approach. If we go back to power, we'll follow that policy again. However, we have seen what your policy is. Your policy at the time was not to take responsibility, not to take responsibility from our party comrades. Your policy in the future, if you take power, it can't be any different. Therefore, in my opinion, Bulgarian voters will not give their trust to you. Thank you. [[Single applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u85	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u86	Colleague, you haven't seen our policy yet. [[Laughter, excitement.]] You're about to see her. Don't worry, you'll see her soon. [[Laughter, excitement and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Kirilov, I will tell you a few basic things from the first year of the Law Faculty of Sofia University.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u87	First to fifth.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u88	First of all, who should take these claims and pay the money is learning in the freshman year.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u89	Who, who?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u90	When the state pays the benefits, it brings in the regression claims. In particular, it is written in the Bulgarian laws that this makes it the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u91	So where are you getting Borisov involved?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u92	By decision of the Council of Ministers and at the direction of Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u93	It's not Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u94	So the Council of Ministers and Borisov should decide and assign the Minister of Finance to file a claim against Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Boyko Borisov. This is what the Bulgarian laws say and this is how they learn in the first year of the Law Faculty. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u95	He's not in freshman year. It's a long way from freshman year.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u96	All your other pranks are fairy tales in the wind, running away from responsibility. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u97	And you really haven't seen our department yet. I stand here for a reason and make a commitment to the Bulgarian citizens that these claims will be brought regardless of who they are and what period of the management of Bulgaria they refer to. Because this is a principle issue.. it does not matter whether he has managed GERB, NDSV, BSP, it is a principle issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u98	You can write a law on the culprits.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u99	Politicians who have violated human rights, who have been convicted in Strasbourg, under the Bulgarian law, by the way, repeatedly amended by you, which you want me to quote, Chapter Three, Section Three, Property liability of the employee, in the Law on the Civil Service Officer is this, art. 101, this is Bulgarian legislation, honourable colleagues, and will be respected! These laws in this Chamber will be passed to be respected, not to surround everyone as they please! And it wouldn't matter which political party it is. If he broke the law, he would be responsible, not for the people paying you all the involuntaryness and violation of the Constitution, laws and everything else. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u100	And tell me about Technoimpex.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u101	Is Boyko Borisov a civil servant?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Any other speeches? Mr. Gurnevsky, come in for a statement. [[(Reply from GERB and BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mrs. Ninova, are you going to worship the victims killed by the People's Court that you are in such a hurry?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u104	On the subject, come in, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u105	Right on the subject. [[Applause from GERB.]] She's talking about law school freshman year lectures. I'll return her to the fifth course of the History Faculty. [[Laughter, excitement from GERB.]] Secondly, it is not true that the people have not seen how you rule. You are heirs of the Bulgarian Communist Party, historical heirs. And the Bulgarian people have seen how your ancestors rule.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u106	That's not a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u107	That's not a line, that's a statement. Please extend the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u108	Please get to the point on the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u109	And when you talk about seeking responsibility for past times, who sought and when will take responsibility for those who killed the flower of the nation? Yesterday was February 1st, if you remember. Who sought and when will take responsibility for those from the CCP and the Politburo who twice wanted to betray the national interest and turn Bulgaria into a sixteenth republic? [[(Reply from GERB: "I" of Khan Asparuh take responsibility!]] Who will take responsibility for Bulgaria's bankruptcy in 1989 when you were repainted by communists in Socialists?! When, according to former Secretary of the Central Committee of the BCP Stoyan Mihailov on 12 June this year, you repainted yourself, took the path to capitalism, created capitalism of the most ugly type, which drove out more than two million young people from Bulgaria, words from your Secretary of the Central Committee. When and who will take this responsibility for you? Who will take responsibility for the banking crisis in which bank millionaires who have robbed the savings of the Bulgarian people have become all of them, bank millionaires have become the agents of your State Security?! Who will take responsibility for the communist nomenclature, which has carried out the criminal transition and all or 90% of your top managements are being pushed today with millionaires and billionaires?! This system has arrested five prominent oligarchs. How come all of them are connected to the communist nomenclature?! I'm not saying that all communists are thieves and crooks. Common Communists are also starving today. How, though, did everyone who was arrested come out related to the Communist Party, which you are giving up? When will they take responsibility for stealing the Technoimpex? [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] When? Who will give this responsibility? You are talking about Tsvetanov and Boyko Borisov. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And when you ran the state and Sofia Airport, which you so much talk about, was convicted of $70 million from the Qatar Fund, when are you going to give responsibility for that money?! [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] When will you give responsibility for the fact that your leader has been proven in the transcripts of parliament: 200 SRS for interfering with the judiciary, Detective Charlandjieva, 200! Two hundred intervened in the justice system! Is she going to take responsibility, dear Bulgarian citizens, for those people who are trying to heal the wounds of the 70-year liquidation of this country?! There's gotta be some morals! And there must be morals in crime! [[Noise and lines.]] You can't just commit all these crimes and pretend to be moralists! The thief shouts, "Hold the thief!" It's a shame!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u110	Mr. Gurnevsky, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u111	It's a shame! These people in the justice system are healing everything you've done over the years. [[(Reply from "BSP for Bulgaria": "Ma" we have paid, man!]] So please stop this populism. Your people have seen how you manage.......very well and excellently. Three times you've been to an election in the last ten years, three times you've gotten a red card. I do not know how well GERB manages, but choose GERB, and you do not want to see you. Not on black, but on white and red mare, you'll always fall off it. So let's call off the debate, let's vote, and let the justice system mind its own business. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u112	No, we're not calling off the debate, Mr. Gurnevsky. - What's the line? Here's your first line, Mr. Pawnov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u113	I don't even mention your name so you don't have the right to a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u114	He'll have a right to the back of his head, Mr. Pawnov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u115	He's entitled to the duvet, so he'll answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u116	Quiet, please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u117	You seem to be suffering from retrograde amnesia. And I'll tell you why. You start the history of Bulgaria from 9 September, from the People's Court... [[Reply from the O.P.: "We start from 1925. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u118	Quiet, please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u119	No, we'll start the story of the Vladja uprising when you kill the soldiers who seek justice! We will begin the story of June 9th, when the legitimate prime minister, who is not a communist, Alexander Stamboliiski, was slaughtered brutally by the fascists. We will start from 1923, September, when, as the poet says: [[Noise and lines.]] We will also go to 1925, which you are talking about, the white nights and the nooses who have killed the left intellectuals, Geo Milev, about the "September," Hristo Yassenov, Rumyantsev, without being communists, just because they were telling the truth about this fascist regime. [[Reply from OP: "Speak in Russian!"]] We'll go to the 1930s when they killed communist MPs without trial and sentence: Anton Strashimirov of the yellow pavement. We'll go to the concentration camps of Gonda water and Enicöy, we'll go to the hawks. Little Stand says: "I will listen, Uncle, don't kill me! ♪ You forget this, it seems, and you think the story begins on 9 September?! Look, you've accused the Communist Party here many times. Even my friend Eyebrows wanted to shut it down. You cannot close it because it has roots in history and in the Bulgarian people! She's been shot, she's tried, she's shut down, she's hung, she's put in concentration camps.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u120	Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u121	It will exist because there is a foundation in this people.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u122	Your time, Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u123	You specifically wrote poems and about Alyosha, and then as mayor you wanted to tear him down. Pull yourself together and look really at the history of Bulgaria! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u124	Thank you, Mr. Pawnov. Second line? I won't. Hole, here you go, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u125	Thank you. When you show from this tribune and read my poem about Alyosha, I won't tell anyone. When you talk about history, you held the Forty-nineth Congress of the Party, which proved that you are continuing its entire history. Excuse me, brothers, these events you described happened a hundred years ago and GERB is a party only 10 years old in the government! What does she have to do with that story that you're condemning her? [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And since you said poetry, yes, I'm still writing poems about the Party. Not just before, but now. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Simov read them, he knows them very well. But I'll tell you one thing about the Party in connection with the last convention you waved the flags at: The party is waving the demagogic flags, that it's social, that it's fair, that it's fair! But if you go through her affairs, you'll see, that she is impertinent, arrogant, bloody, and especially thieving! [[Applause from GERB and shouts: "Bravo, bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u126	Was that a poem, Mr. Gurnevsky?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u127	Yeah, to the Party.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u128	Colleagues, I think that both Mr. Pawnov and Mr. Gurnevsky had the opportunity to speak in the way they wanted, beyond the subject, so there is no need for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u129	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u130	Because I also gave Mr. Pawnov a thesis that was close to Mr. Gurnevsky's thesis. So the way you're holding it, I don't think it makes any sense.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u131	There is.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u132	Let's see, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u133	Dear Madam President, under your leadership, our Parliament has achieved something unique, we have proved that trolls are not only in virtual space. They're here among us. My procedure, Madam President, is directed at you: when you see a troll on this stands, please take it away. [[(Radio and applause from BSP for ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u134	Will you point him out to me, Mr. Bojankov? Colleagues, we're moving on. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. Mr. Deputy Minister, would you like to make a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u135	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is indeed my pleasure to present to you here today the fifth report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. A joint meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Religions and Human Rights took place on 21 November 2018. This meeting has awakened in me a timid hope that this report of the Minister of Justice will be looked at expertly and professionally, as the opposition representatives in these two committees then supported and voted for the report. This timid hope of mine, however, as you can see, is not justified. What exactly happened between 21 November 2018 and 6 February 2019 is unclear to me? The report is the same. There's nothing new about him! The only thing that's changed is that we're two months ahead of time to another election in the country. For this reason, I have witnessed here today a purely political conversation on a document which has a legal character and has precisely defined frameworks. It is about how Bulgaria reacted to the need to implement the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. Instead I heard here, first, a remarkable historical lecture. Thank you, remarkable! After that, I heard a program for the construction of something I would call "Completed Bulgaria." It is out of doubt that if we manage to build a perfect Bulgaria, there will be no need for such reports. Then perhaps we can get out of the Convention. I also couldn't understand what gave my deeply respected Mr. Ivanov reason to claim that this report puts the Bulgarian citizens on their knees, something that logically does not make sense to me. After such vivid political statements, it is very difficult for me to return the tone within the normal professional discussion of a basically legal document. I would like to assure the honourable Members that the report contains findings of very important positive trends in the work of the European Court of Human Rights in Bulgarian cases. First of all, the complaints are falling at a high rate, most likely for two main reasons: First, the public situation in Bulgaria is likely to improve and disappear the objective foundations for increasing complaints. Secondly, there is probably a reflection here that at least in some public segments effective internal legal remedies have been created and some of the complaints of the citizens concerned have probably been transferred to national courts. I don't know what Mr. Zarkov doesn't like at our 15th place in this ranking? In my opinion, this is a not-bad place, especially given that, in front of us, with worse statistics, there are countries with established democratic tradition. With an established democratic tradition! For me, the positive findings here are a fact! They are also due to the fact, ladies and gentlemen, that a small but very professional collective works at the Ministry of Justice. This is the so-called Directorate of Professional Representation of the Republic of Bulgaria before the European Court of Human Rights. They protect the very professional interests of the state that I have witnessed in the last year and a half. Finally, I would like to say something that is really very important to me and through it, in fact, to ask for the assistance of all of you. With this, you will be very helpful precisely in implementing the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. For many years, the implementation of these decisions was thought to be purely the work of the Ministry of Justice. That's why the report here is on behalf of the Minister of Justice. In this particular work it is established, ladies and gentlemen, that the problem is actually much more complex and a large part of these solutions cannot be met with the funds of the executive or only one ministry. On the contrary, all the efforts of the state and the public must be made in order for some of these decisions to be implemented. That is why we are currently working, and I am optimistic in this regard, in creating a single state mechanism on which to carry out all decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and, of course, you are mostly in the way of legislation, you could make a very significant contribution in this direction. With this, I intend not to enter into the discussion again, and thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-06.u136	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister. Honourable Members, we are going to vote on the draft decision presented to the Members of the National Assembly. They voted 129 MPs: for 80, against 40, abstention 9. The offer is accepted. With this, honourable Members, we are finishing the work for today. The next regular plenary session shall be on 7 February 2019 at 9.00, according to the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
