ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u1	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, we continue with the first item of today's agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR SOCIAL SERVICES. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2018. I give the floor to the President of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Here you are, Dr. Ademov, to brief us on your committee report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u2	Madam President, allow me first to make a procedural proposal in this Chamber to allow the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova and Johanna Germanova to be an expert in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u3	We're voting admission to the House. Vote 150 MPs: for 147, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. Continue, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u4	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Social Services Bill, No 802-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2018. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at a regular meeting held on 12 December 2018 discussed and discussed the Social Services Bill, No 802-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by: Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy; Zornitsa Rusinova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy; Elena Kremenlieva, Director of the Department of Social Inclusion and Social Policy; Mincho Koralski, Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities; Maya Manolova, Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria; and experts from the Ombudsmana administration; Nikolina Ivanova, Head of the Department of Social Services for People with Disabilities; Silvia Georgieva, Executive Director of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria; Maya Stojkova, Aneta Staneva, Rositsa Bukova. The bill was presented by Minister Biser Petkov. The draft law on social services governs the provision, use, planning, financing, quality, control and monitoring of social services in the Republic of Bulgaria. These are key issues whose regulation is important for the social services sector, which, on the one hand, is related to ensuring access to social support and meeting the needs and realization of people's rights and, on the other, to the effective functioning of the system at national and local level. The main objectives of the Law are to guarantee access to services, their quality and efficiency, the right to life in the home environment and in the community, as well as to promote the integrated approach and public-private partnership. The basic principles for organising and providing social services are also laid down, which are subsequently reflected in the provisions of the Law. The basic principles are: availability of different types of social services; accessibility of social services; individualisation of support; comprehensiveness, integration and continuity of support; prevention of institutionalisation and termination of institutional care; respect for the rights of users of social services and ensuring their active participation in decision making; flexibility in the management of social services; participation of all stakeholders and use of all available resources. The main groups of problems the Social Services Act aims at are in the following guidelines: difficult access to the social services provided due to uneven territorial development of the social services system; lack of an effectively functioning system for control of the quality of the social services provided; difficulties and problems arising from the lack of mechanisms to ensure a higher level of efficiency and efficiency in the management of the system as a whole and the provision of the social services themselves. The bill defines social services as support activities for prevention and/or overcoming social exclusion, realization of rights and improvement of quality of life. They are based on social work, individual approach and individual needs assessment. The leading element of any social service is social work which is defined in the Bill as an activity based on human rights and social justice and aimed at supporting the individual, family, groups or communities to improve their well-being by developing skills to use their own capabilities and those of the community to meet their needs. Social work is an essential element of social services, which limits this specific group of services and activities from other nearby areas, defines the objectives of interventions and promotes self-powering and preventing the development of dependence on the support system. The bill allows for profiling of services at different signs, such as objectives, functions, users, specific needs, groups of activities, duration and method of use, environment, organization. Social service providers are guaranteed the right to choose on their own how to organise their delivery and how to manage them on their own or as a complex of different social services. Principles are introduced in the selection of an organisation and way of managing social services financed by the state budget, such as: providing easy access to services; providing complex support through various activities; providing an opportunity for efficient and efficient management of services; enabling flexible use, guidance and management of specialists engaged in various activities; ensuring high efficiency of funds to finance activities. These principles will give municipalities an opportunity for greater flexibility in the management and organisation of services. The right to social services will have all the persons in the Republic of Bulgaria who need support, which can be provided through social services. There is an opportunity to use publicly available social services by all persons and not only vulnerable groups. Publicly available services may be necessary for anyone, regardless of whether there is any risk. These will be information, consulting and training services for the realization of social rights and the development of skills provided for up to two months. The group of public-access services will include mobile preventive community work. Persons shall have the right to be informed and consulted about these services, but their use shall not be subject to prior assessment. All other services will be specialised and provided in the event of a certain risk to the life, health, well-being or development of the person and, where necessary, a specific need for a particular group of persons to be met. Access to social services is alleviated by removing the issuing of accommodation orders and directions for use of services. The guidance for the use of specialized social services will include providing information and consulting in order for the person to make an informed choice of service and offering a proposal for appropriate services. Public access services will be used without guidance, evaluation and conclusion of a contract. Each person will be entitled to information and consultation from the Social Assistance Directorate and from the municipality for social services that he can enjoy, the conditions, the deadlines for their use and the amount of fees. The right to choose the person to choose the service provider is granted by introducing rules depending on whether the service is at municipal or regional level. The direction of the Social Assistance Directorate is reserved only for children at risk, persons in a crisis situation, persons placed under an emergency and when a service is used for persons from all over the country. For all other persons, the direction will be from the municipality. In cases of children at risk, the Child Protection Act will apply. Planning is introduced at national level of social services financed by the state budget by developing a national map of social services. The map will be developed on the basis of needs analysis and planning at municipal and national level, but in accordance with statutory criteria. It is also envisaged to be updated. A regulation on social services planning will be adopted. The services financed by the state budget will be classified into three main groups: services at municipal level that satisfy the needs of the population of the municipality; services at regional level that satisfy the needs of persons from all over the district; services at regional level that satisfy the needs of persons from all over the country. By planning social services at national level, the national map will determine all social services financed in whole or in part by the state budget and it is explicitly regulated that these are services that correspond to the priorities of the state policy in the field of social services. The map will also determine the maximum number of users of all social services for which full or partial funding from the state budget is provided. The National Card will be accepted by the Council of Ministers. Social service providers are defined by the current range of providers dropping out of the State. Now the state is listed as a social service provider, but in practice it only finances and controls them. The bill removes mixing of funding and control functions with management and provision of social services. The annual planning of services and funding from the state budget shall be regulated. Principles for funding from the state budget are laid down, both long-term funding planning and annual funding are linked to services in the national social services map. The possibility of mixed funding from the state and municipal budget of services included in the national map of social services as well as mixed funding from natural and legal persons is regulated. The purpose of mixed financing shall also be explicitly defined. Rules are laid down for a more proper definition of the standards for funding from the state budget of social services, which will be formed by the individual elements of the costs of providing each social service depending on: the type of social service with regard to the groups of activities; the way it is used; the environment for providing; the group of users; the duration of the service; the quality standards; the requirements for the necessary specialists. Additional standards for social services providing daily or resident care for persons in inability to self-service, for persons with aggressive and problematic behaviour and for persons with the need for permanent medical supervision and medical care are also introduced. The determination and collection of fees for the use of services shall be regulated. Not only are persons who do not pay a fee for using social services financed by the state budget but also social services that are free of charge not only for them. Part of these services will be the services for consulting and supporting parents in matters of early childhood development and raising children, early intervention of disabilities for children, emergency provision of support in the event of a crisis situation and others. In addition to the general order for the provision of social services, certain special rules for resident care, for the use of services by children and by persons placed under ban, for the use of assistant support, for the provision of replacement care, etc. are also regulated. A distinction has been made for children in the service regime when children are not at risk. The Child Protection Act only applies when the services are for children at risk. The right of children to seek support for themselves, the prohibition of refusing support and assistance for children and compulsory services designated by the Court and the Directorate of Social Assistance shall be laid down when they apply a protection measure. For the use of resident care for children the judicial control under the Law on Child Protection shall be maintained, except for cases of the use of resident care up to 30 days per year by children with permanent disabilities who need permanent medical supervision and medical care when there are no grounds for accommodation outside the family. The maximum period of residence in resident care is reduced from three to two years with an update of the assessment to six months. A ban is introduced on the provision of resident care to children up to three years of age, except in cases where permanent medical supervision and medical care of children with permanent disabilities cannot otherwise be ensured. In the case of persons who have been incarcerated, the regime introduced by changes to the Social Assistance Act in 2016. The new moments are related to the possibility of the Social Assistance Directorate requiring support from social services providers to examine the wishes of persons placed under an intercession and the obligation for the guardian or guardian of a person placed under an intercession to comply with the person's wishes and to assist him in directing and using the social service he chooses. For the first time, a legal order is created to provide assistant support for overworkers in the inability of self-service, as well as for disabled persons if they do not enjoy such support under another law. The content of the assistant support is defined, the functions of the assistant and the municipality are defined when the service is financed by the state and municipal budget. The replacement care is also regulated. It is regulated as support for persons caring for dependent family members, not only children. The replacement care is defined as short-term care provided to support families of children with disabilities, families of relatives and relatives, where children with disabilities are accommodated, foster families, families of persons with permanent disabilities in the inability to care for themselves, families and persons who care for elderly people in the inability to self-service, in case those who normally take care of them cannot provide it. The Law establishes an Agency for the Quality of Social Services as an executive agency of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. The Agency will be established within the state number of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which includes secondary officers with a budget to the Minister. The Agency for the Quality of Social Services will license private suppliers and maintain the register of suppliers. It will also be able to carry out on-the-spot checks where necessary to establish the circumstances specified by the private provider in the case of licensing or by a municipality when establishing a service. The Law preserves the current scheme for the award of the provision of social services created by the municipality and introduces another new regime whereby the municipality entrusts the provision of a service to a private provider which does not have an objective opportunity to create. The bill will amend and supplement 26 laws relating to the new regulation and the different definition of social services. Some of the changes are also related to the commitments made to close the homes for children and adults with disabilities. Changes aim to synchronise legislation and prevent delays in law enforcement. The more significant changes are in the Social Assistance Act, the Child Protection Act, the Family Code, the Health Act and the Hospitals Act. A reference from the Ministry of Justice on the compliance of the draft law on social services with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Council of Europe and with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights has been attached to the Bill. The Ministry of Justice pointed out that the draft law on social services, in its part on the use of social service, resident care by persons placed under an obstacle, is closely related to the implementation of two judgments of the European Court of Human Rights against Bulgaria, united in the group Stanev. The opinion concludes with the claim that the draft does not provide for a special procedure when it comes to the use of a resident type service by persons placed under a limited limitation. The draft of acts to the Draft Law shall include the proposals and opinions received in the publication of the website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and of the Public Consultation Portal of the Draft Law on Social Services. It shows that there are generally and partially accepted proposals as well as rejected ones. A report on the overall preliminary assessment of the impact of the draft law, a summary of the overall preliminary assessment, as well as a financial justification of the project by the Ministry of Finance, is attached to the Bill. The draft law in question was discussed on 20 November 2018 by the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. The NTSC has not achieved unanimous support for the Social Services Act. The opinions of CRIB, the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Bulgarian Industrial Association and the CNSB are attached to the minutes of the meeting, which are generally supporting the bill. The Commission received opinions from the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the National Network for Children and the Agency for Persons with Disabilities. All three opinions are generally supportive and offer specific amendments and additions to the Bill. The discussion was attended by Mrs. Maya Manolova, Member of the Republic of Bulgaria, Daniela Ushatova, Head of team in the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, Mincho Koralski, Executive Director of the Agency for People with Disabilities, and the National Representatives Georgi Gokov, Svetlana Angelova, Nadia Klisurska, Hasan Ademov and Milko Nedyalkov. Everyone expressed support for the Bill and the assessment that this bill was well written and attempted to codify the matter related to social services. From his philosophy it is clear that the aim to carry out a more quality offering of quality services has been achieved. In parallel, MPs have also noticed controversial situations in the bill, such as those related to the work of the new Social Services Quality Agency, social services standards, the new licensing regime of social service providers, financing of social services, public-private partnership, the essence of the National Card, paid and free social services, etc. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 19 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposes to the National Assembly to support the Social Services Bill, No 802-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u5	Thank you. Following is a Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff. You have the floor to present the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the Social Services Bill, No 802-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 17 January 2019, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed the Social Services Bill, No 802 01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2018. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy Mrs. Sultanka Petrova Deputy Minister, Mrs. Elena Kremenlieva Director of the Department of Social Inclusion and Mrs. Tomislava Sotirova Head of the Department of Social Inclusion. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Sultanka Petrova. The development of the Social Services Act is laid down in the Management Program of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021. The draft law governs the provision, use, planning, financing, quality, control and monitoring of social services in the Republic of Bulgaria. The objectives of this law are: 1. ensuring equal access to social services meeting the individual needs of the persons; 2. guaranteeing the quality and effectiveness of social services; 3. guaranteeing the right of every person to support living in a home environment and in the community; 4. promoting the integrated approach in providing support to individuals; 5. promotion and development of public-private partnership in the provision of social services. The right to social services will have all the persons in need in the Republic of Bulgaria. There is an opportunity to use publicly available social services by all persons and not only vulnerable groups. All other services will be specialised and provided in the event of a certain risk to the life, health, well-being or development of the person and, where necessary, a specific need for a particular group of persons to be met. Each person will have the right to information and consultation from the Social Assistance Directorate and from the municipality for the social services that he can use, the conditions, the deadlines for their use and the amount of fees. Planning is introduced at national level of social services financed by the state budget by developing the National Social Services Card, which will be adopted by the Council of Ministers. Social service providers are defined by the current range of providers dropping the state and regulating the possibility of public-private partnership by introducing the possibility of mixed funding from the state and municipal budget of services included in the National Social Services Card as well as financing from natural and legal persons. The establishment of a Regulation on Social Services Planning is envisaged. Additional standards for social services providing daily or resident care for persons in inability to self-service, for persons with aggressive and problematic behaviour and for persons with the need for permanent medical supervision and medical care are also introduced. For the first time, a legal order is created to provide assistant support to overworkers in the inability of self-service, as well as to persons with permanent disabilities if they do not enjoy such support under another law. Regulations are also set up for substitute care, case management and responsibility of the service provider, coordination as well as assistance from other authorities and persons. A licensing regime is also regulated for all private social service providers. The establishment of a Regulation on the quality of social services, setting standards for quality of social services and a Regulation of the Council of Ministers on standards for the payment of labour for employees engaged in activities for the provision of social services financed by the state budget is envisaged. There is a legal order for control and monitoring by suppliers, by the municipality as a body of local self-government, as well as for independent monitoring by international, European and national organisations. An Agency for the Quality of Social Services is hereby established as an executive agency of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, which will license private suppliers and maintain the register of suppliers. The bill introduces annual monitoring of social services at national level for the first time. The new agency will be specialized only in the control and monitoring of quality and efficiency, in the implementation of administrative criminal responsibility, but there will be no functions for planning and financing social services. There are opportunities to conclude agreements between municipalities for the provision of services to persons from several municipalities and persons from all over the area. The impact assessment carried out establishes relief of persons and a reduction of administrative burdens, such as social assistance and municipalities will coordinate directional activities for the use of social services, exchange information and provide assistance. The Commission received opinions from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Agency for People with Disabilities and the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, which made constructive proposals and editorials on texts of the Law. During the discussion the MPs supported the need for the adoption of the Law. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 14 votes for the Council of Ministers, with no objection and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly that the Social Services Bill, No 802-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers, be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u7	Thank you. Following is a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you go, Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! I'll introduce you to ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Social Services Bill, No 802-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2018. At a regular meeting held on 17 January 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova Deputy Minister and Elena Kremenlieva Director of the Social Inclusion Directorate. The bill was presented by Mrs. Rusinova. The Social Services Bill aims to solve the following main groups of problems: - difficulties in accessing the social services provided due to uneven territorial development of the social services system; - the lack of an effective system of control over the quality of the provided social services; - the difficulties and problems arising from the lack of mechanisms to ensure a higher level of efficiency and efficiency in the management of the system as a whole and the provision of the social services themselves. This is the first special law that governs all matters relevant for the social services sector in the Republic of Bulgaria. Social services are not perceived as buildings, but as activities through which people are supported to create social competence to enable them to be active in the realization of their rights and not to be merely passive recipients of support and care. The main points in the bill are as follows: - for the first time an opportunity to use publicly available social services from all persons, not only vulnerable groups; - facilitate access to social services and remove the issuing of orders for accommodation and directions for use of services. For the first time, it is given the right to choose the person themselves to choose the service provider they want to use; - balance the responsibilities of the municipalities and........................................................................................................ - for the first time not only persons who do not pay a fee for the use of services financed by the state budget but also free social services; - for the purpose of equal access to services and meeting the needs of the whole country, national planning of social services financed by the state budget is introduced by developing a national map of social services on the basis of regulatoryly defined objective criteria; - for the first time the division of services at municipal and regional level is introduced; - The regime for creating services financed by the state budget is alleviated by municipalities. Municipalities shall also be given the opportunity to conclude agreements with each other in order to provide the necessary services. For the first time different opportunities for public-private partnership are regulated; - clear rules are laid down for setting standards for funding from the state budget of social services and for setting complementary standards for certain services and groups of their users; - all private providers will provide services on equal terms by regulating a licence regime for them with a period of validity of the licence for 5 years; - for the first time define the main directions of quality standards, among which are performance standards. Quality requirements are mandatory for all; - employees are regulated the right to training, to supervision, to mentoring, to participation; validation of working load standards; regulation on labour pay standards for employees engaged in service activities; adoption of an ethical code; - for the first time the integrated provision of support and integrated cross-sector services are defined. Integrated services shall be regulated in such a way as not to allow a transfer to the social system of non-typical activities; - in order to improve overall control and clear and non-controversial methodological support from a specialised body with clearly defined functions is created Agency for the quality of social services. The Agency will be specialised solely in the control and monitoring of quality and efficiency, and through its establishment will overcome the current duplication of functions and transfer of responsibilities between two agencies. The new agency will be established within the state number of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which includes secondary officers with a budget. Amendments and additions to 26 laws are proposed, related to the new regulation and the different definition of social services. The Social Services Bill is proposed to enter into force from 1 January 2020. Following the discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Budget and Finance Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Social Services Bill, No 802-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. Next, a report from the Commission on Children, Youth and Sports. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u10	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on Draft Law on Social Services, No 802-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2018. At its regular meeting on 19 December 2018, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports examined and discussed Draft Law on Social Services, No 802-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2018. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Zornitsa Rusinova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and Mrs. Elena Kremenlieva, Director of Social Inclusion at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Zornitsa Rusinova. In her statement Ms. Rusinova explained that the draft Law on Social Services governs the provision, use, planning, financing, quality, control and monitoring of social services in the Republic of Bulgaria, with its main objectives ensuring access to quality and effective services, as well as the right to life in the home environment and in the community, and promoting the integrated approach and public-private partnership. The bill defines social services as support activities for prevention and/or overcoming social exclusion. In the project social services are profiled by different signs, such as goals, functions, users, specific needs, groups of activities, duration and method of use, environment, organization. There is an opportunity to use publicly available social services by all persons and not only vulnerable groups. Social service providers are guaranteed the right to choose on their own how to organise their provision and how to manage them, and from the current round of providers the State which has so far been designated as a supplier but in practice only finances and controls them. The bill removes mixing of funding and control functions with management and provision of social services. With regard to the policy on social services for children, besides the general order for the provision of social services, certain special rules for resident care, for the use of services by children and by persons placed under intercession, for the use of assistant support, for the provision of replacement care, etc. are also regulated. A distinction has been made for children in the service regime when children are not at risk. The Child Protection Act shall only apply when the services are at risk for children. The right of children to seek support for themselves, the prohibition of refusing support and assistance for children and compulsory services designated by the court and the Directorate of Social Assistance is regulated when they apply a protection measure. For the use of resident care for children the judicial control under the Law on Child Protection shall be maintained, except for cases of the use of resident care up to 30 days per year by children with permanent disabilities who need permanent medical supervision when there are no grounds for accommodation outside the family. The maximum period of residence in resident care is reduced from three to two years with an update of the assessment to six months. A ban is introduced on the provision of resident care to children up to the age of three, except in cases where permanent medical supervision of children with permanent disabilities cannot otherwise be ensured. The bill regulates substitution care, which is defined as short-term care provided to support families of children with disabilities, families of relatives and relatives or foster families where children with disabilities are accommodated. In relation to the establishment of the Agency for the Quality of Social Services, the functions of licensing of providers of services for children and control regarding compliance with standards and criteria for social services for children will be dropped from the functions of the State Agency for Child Protection. The bill amends and complements other laws relating to the new regulation and the different definition of social services. Some of the changes are also related to the commitments made to close children's homes. The Child Protection Act repeals all texts regulating the control and licensing of social services, changes are made resulting from the closure of children's homes, some functions of the child protection authorities are being refined. Coordination mechanisms for the risk of abandonment of a child, for early intervention in the birth of a disabled child, as well as a mechanism for child abuse shall be laid down. Children with disabilities drop out of the circle of children at risk. The amendments to the Family Code allow the court to determine the mandatory use of social services to support parents in a dispute over the exercise of parental rights by also regulating the functions of social service providers. A transitional period shall be introduced for certain provisions until the closure of children's homes. The entry into force of the ban on the creation of new homes for children and the provisions relating to the closure of the homes for children is proposed to be from the date of the promulgation of the Law in the Official Journal. In the subsequent discussion of the Law took part the MPs Svetlana Angelova and Vesela Lecheva. Ms. Angelova stressed that in recent years the provided social services have largely increased their number and diversity, which on the one hand led to a reduction of their quality and, on the other hand, led to a difficulty in controlling, which imposed the need for a new law to regulate these public relations. In her speech Mrs. Angelova stressed the positive aspects of the bill, pointing out the importance of setting up an agency for the quality of social services, which will cover the quality control of the provided social services in the territory of the House. Ms. Lecheva stressed her support for the submitted bill by expressing hope that the implementation of the provisions laid down in the bill relating to the National Social Services Card will have an important role in terms of planning, forecasting and directing the funds provided for the provision of social services. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the 18-vote vote, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposed to the National Assembly that the draft Law on Social Services, No 802-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2018 should be adopted on the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u11	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Following is a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Is there a representative of the Commission? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u12	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Social Services Bill, No 802-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2018. At its meeting held on 15 January 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Social Services Bill, No 802-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2018. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy Mrs. Zornitsa Rusinova Deputy Minister, and Mrs. Ioanna Germanova State Expert in the Department of Social Inclusion. Deputy Minister Rusinova presented the bill, pointing out that its main objectives are ensuring accessibility, integration and promotion of public-private partnership in the provision of social services, and adding that it defines the types of social services and the criteria for offering them. Ms. Rusinova noted that there is a change in the understanding and definition of social services, which will be seen as activities for prevention of social exclusion, for the realization of fundamental rights and for improving the quality of life. Deputy Minister Rusinova emphasized on the new publicly available services for which the need for guidance and evaluation was removed, adding that the persons in difficulty and those exposed to a certain risk could also benefit from specialized services. The draft law regulates the general order for the provision of social services and defines the specific rules for certain types of services, such as resident care; the services that are used by children; the services that are used by persons placed under intercession; replacement care and assistant support. The planning of social services at national level is implemented through the Social Services Map, which will be prepared on the basis of an analysis of the needs at regional level and only the services included in this map will be financed by the state budget. The establishment of the Social Services Quality Agency of the Minister for Labour and Social Policy is proposed to carry out the licensing of social service providers and to control compliance with the law and quality standards; to check the way municipalities and private providers spend the funds from the state budget; to check for compliance with the rights of users of social services and to monitor the effectiveness at national level. The public-private partnership is regulated by introducing the possibility of mixed funding from the state and municipal budget, as well as financing from natural and legal persons. The Law establishes rules for the proper definition of the standards for funding from the state budget of social services delegated by the State as activities of municipalities, leading in defining them will be the type of social service, the way it is used, the environment for providing, the group of users, the duration of service provision, quality standards and the requirements for professional qualification of workers in the social sphere. In the discussion took part the MPs Todor Baychev and Danail Kirilov, who expressed their support for the bill. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 18 votes for the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2018 proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Social Services Bill, No 802 01 57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u13	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Following is a report from the Committee on Health. Dr. Daritkova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u14	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm giving your attention. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Social Services Bill, No 802-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2018. At its regular meeting held on 17 January 2019, the Health Commission examined and discussed the Social Services Bill, No 802-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2018. The meeting was attended by Ms. Svetlana Yordanova Deputy Minister of Health, Mrs. Zornitsa Rusinova Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mrs. Elena Kremenlieva Director of Social Inclusion at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Mrs. Zornitsa Rusinova. The draft Law on Social Services provides for the provision, use, planning, financing, quality, control and monitoring of social services in the Republic of Bulgaria. The main objectives of the future law are: guaranteeing access to services, their quality and efficiency, as well as the right to live in a home environment and in the community; promoting the integrated approach and public-private partnership. The basic principles for the organisation and provision of social services are also laid down. Social services play an increasingly important role in preventing social exclusion and creating social competence to enable people to realise their rights. The development of social services is becoming increasingly important not only for improving opportunities for social inclusion, but also for offering new employment opportunities. The ageing of the population, the deepening of social inequalities and poverty are prerequisites for increased demand for wide-ranging services and the need for a continuous increase in their quality. The right to social services will have all the persons in the Republic of Bulgaria who need support, which can be provided through social services. There is an opportunity to use publicly available social services by all persons and not only vulnerable groups. The types of social services are defined according to the main groups of activities and the content of each of them is defined in the Bill. Ten are the main types of social services that will be offered: information and counseling, advocacy and mediation, community work, therapy and rehabilitation, training for skills acquisition, support for the acquisition of labour skills, day care, resident care, providing shelter, assistant support. The draft Law on Social Services offers amendments and additions to 26 laws, which relate to the new regulation and the different definition of social services. Changes aim to synchronise legislation and prevent delays in the implementation of the Law. The more significant changes are in the Social Assistance Act, the Child Protection Act, the Family Code, the Health Act and the Hospitals Act. In the Health Act and in the Law on Medical Institutions, the changes stem from the new regulation of social services and the closure of children's homes, including the homes for medical and social care for children who are medical institutions, as well as the closure of homes for disabled adults. The Health Act mainly changes the provisions relating to health offices in specialized institutions and cancels the provisions for integrated health-social services. The Law on Medical Institutions changes the provisions relating to the possibility of medical institutions to provide social and integrated health-social services and repeals the provisions for medical and social care homes for children due to the imminent closure of these homes. A transitional period shall be introduced for certain provisions until the closure of the homes for children and homes for disabled adults. The Committee on Health received opinions from the Bulgarian Red Cross, the Ministry of Health and the National Network for Children. All three opinions are positive and express support for the bill under consideration. The opinion of BCC makes a proposal for the addition of the service "Public dining room" to the social services for which no fee is paid, regulated in art. No. 104, para. 1 of the Social Services Bill. The motive for this proposal is that the Social Services Fund at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy finances a large number of public dining rooms that provide free lunch for very vulnerable people. For this service users do not pay a fee. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Social Services Bill, No 802-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2018, proposed that the National Assembly adopt the Social Services Bill, No 802-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u15	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Will there be an importer's opinion? No. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u16	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! After such positive opinions and reports from the committees, I will first say that I support the adoption of the Social Services Bill in the first vote. Along with the good things, I will allow myself some criticism of the individual principles and norms introduced by it. The legislation currently in force which regulates the provision of social services in Chapter Four "Social services" of art. Art. 16 to art. 19 of the 1998 Social Assistance Act, that is to say, in four articles, we should collect the entire palette of social services that are currently being provided. Everyone is aware that no matter how well the lawmaker from the Thirty-eighth National Assembly and the social services were well regulated at that time, the sector has developed dynamically over the next 20 years and the legislative base for providing them is lags behind. At the same time, the funds allocated to social services are relatively small and once again I have to pay attention to those who manage that people who directly concern them with social services and society in general remain with the feeling that even this relatively little money is being distributed unfairly and does not reach those who really need them. It must be clear to society that you are continuing to reduce the relative share of the costs of social payments compared to the gross domestic product from 2.1 in 2018 to 12 in 2019 and 11.5% in 2021. I am saying all this to make it clear that whatever law on social services we adopt will remain framework and wishful thinking if we do not provide it financially. I have repeatedly said that, at the moment, our entire social system, including social services legislation, is the result of continuous chaotic changes from decisions taken under pressure, and this has largely led to a lack of overall logic and a lack of focus on those who have the most need for support and support. The growing discontent and social tensions throughout Europe, growing in places of protest, including in the most developed member states, must be a serious signal to the government that the social justice in Europe is losing positions and values are in total crisis. In Bulgaria, protests, although not on such scale because of Bulgarian folksychology, show the same. Already in the spring of the protests of people with disabilities, the national organizations presented to them, the informal ones, which continue to this day in a different form, were clearly declared a desire for serious, radical changes in social policies and new legislation in the context of these changes, which would follow the logic of our country's ratified Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2012. All this in the direction of achieving justice to a higher degree, i.e. receiving support and assistance to reach the really needy. It has become clear that with changes in the current legislation this cannot become a reality, and it is imperative to adopt a new law which will bring together and unite the fragmented legal framework of the various aspects of social services based on the experience gained from the 20-year practice of implementing the Social Assistance Act. A law is necessary that in general regulates the matter of social services by regulating the commitments of the various departments relating to the provision and development of social services, the purpose of which is to ensure the use of these services by all those in need and not to allow fraud. At the risk of being called abominable, I will once again remind you that according to the schedules in the Action Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria for the implementation of the ratified Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, a concept and changes in the regulations are envisaged to lead to the development of a Social Services Bill in the context of the Convention, which is ready by the end of 2016. We are 2019 now. I would like to remind you that if you follow the deadlines prescribed in your own documents, the social tension in Bulgaria will be far less. I sincerely hope and wish for this law to become the basis for overcoming the problems of providing services in the social sphere and to make it a real opportunity for the socially vulnerable groups of Bulgarian society to be adequately supported, their integration into the contemporary Bulgarian society to become easier. But once again it is clear that the obstacles are not only legislative but also of a financial nature, that is, the Law and the provisions in it will remain only a good wish if they are not financially secured to the necessary and sufficient extent. The Social Services Act was announced as part of the package of social laws, along with the two laws already adopted for people with disabilities and for personal assistance. I will add to them the Law on Enterprises of the Social and Solidar Economy, because this law, albeit with a wider scope, also implies prevention of some of the outputs and accordingly provides aid for social inclusion of people from vulnerable groups. However, I am convinced that the package of social laws will not be complete if the National Assembly does not examine and adopt a Law on the Elderly. One of the good aspects of the process of drafting this bill is attracting a wide range of representatives of all stakeholders. This is an extremely good approach. God willing to apply it to all laws in the social sphere, in the health sector and at least in them. With the Project the importer tries to systematize and regulate relationships that already exist. The novelties in the Law are not so many, it cannot be many, but nevertheless the bill creates a better legal environment for the management and provision of social services in Bulgaria. If we assess it impartially, we should note that, with its 172 articles, an additional and 41 transitional and final provisions, it largely solves the problems of defining the types of social services and providing them, planning and financing. The terms and conditions of their use and, last but not least, the control of the application of this law shall be determined. The bill proposes a framework approach to the settlement of social activities, including principles of social activity and a legal framework for the provision of social services. It regulates the types of social services and the way they are provided, access to them and their regulation and control. Defines legal definitions and financing of social services, regulates entities that will implement these services, including competent authorities for providing them. The stated objectives are to improve the quality and development of social services, improve access to them and integrate social support. There is also a more detailed quest to arrange matters, as well as to identify and mutually bind the commitments of the various institutions, offices and systems to ensure the use of the social services provided for in the Law. What is new in the system of social services introduced by the Law I can highlight three things. The first is that the planning, creation, provision and financing of services will be done through the National Social Services Card, which will determine the number, types of services, the maximum number of users to be included, and some other issues governed by the Law. Next, I place the more serious regulation and control of the suppliers themselves. Last but not least, the creation of a new Agency for the Quality of Social Services, which will license all service providers. This is a new moment, and I think it is positive, although there will probably be criticism, Mr. Minister, that we will increase the administration and we must explain that we are not really increasing it, we are simply transforming parts of one administration with other functions. I'm not going to appreciate this news as to whether they're necessarily good or bad, just taking them to the foreground, and I'm going to try to make a few honest comments. Decentralisation in the provision of social services is currently accepted as a fact, although funds for delegated social activities are relatively increasing as values, but as a share of the total delegated costs of the state to municipalities are decreasing. This same decentralisation should enable the local community to provide specific, tailored to local specifics, social services. So far, however, there has been a lack of in-depth analysis at local level by municipalities for the provision of social services, their effectiveness and their development. Therefore, the question of the possibility of providing the full range of social services throughout the country remains open and unresolved. Everyone is aware that in places in the country there is no possibility of providing such social services to vulnerable consumers, which are considered elementary in other places. This has even been found in the impact assessment of this bill. It is not clear whether this unevenness is due to unevenness in the demand for services at local level or other subjective factors. It is not clear, and without the relevant analyses it cannot be made clear, but the trend, as well as the provision of health services, is to concentrate the opportunities for providing social services in larger settlements. It's not clear, I even think the importers didn't put much effort into this, how regional differences will be overcome. Whether this law is going to overcome them, I doubt, but to think and to aim for full territorial coverage with all social services is unrealistic and impossible. To bring regional differences to a minimum is an achievable goal, but I do not think that we will achieve it with this bill. Everything depends on the regulations that we will adopt in support of the Law. I see a serious flaw in the imposed policies in the direction of the state wanting to plan the number, price and place where a social service is to be provided and at the same time asking the municipality or someone else designated by its decision to provide this service. Since decentralisation has not occurred to the extent and volume necessary and as the practice and harsh Bulgarian reality show that the state does not always adequately foresee, plan and manage, because the approach is not according to the necessity and necessity of a social service, but according to the available means of realizing the service or to lobbying interests and political bias, so it is possible to create a number of obstacles in the implementation of the Law. It is no less important that the written texts in the new, setting ambitious goals, the Social Services Act, which, among other things, involve detailed individualized work with consumers, require significantly more trained experts, specialists and social workers. In this context, the question of the capacity of the Agency for Social Assistance remains unresolved, which must implement and implement the objectives of the Law, and I am referring to both the physical capacity of the administration and its skills and suitability. To this agency, on the one hand, the legislator is constantly transferring responsibilities and tasks, including with the newly adopted laws on personal assistance and for people with disabilities, and at the same time this administration, along with the administration from other agencies to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, is one of the lowest paid, least paid, most checked, most hockana and what is not, but still in a negative direction. For me, the possibility of applying the successful approach and a complex assessment to the provision of social services remains also questionable. I also see a serious problem in the individual assessment of the needs of the people to what extent the ASP administration is trained and able to carry it out, to what extent it is possible to escape the subjectivism and bureaucraticisation of the processes in the preparation of this assessment. I see problems in the idea of planning, creating, providing and financing services through a national social services map. Does anyone remember here in this room that there are municipal and regional strategies for social services development that played a role as a national, regional and municipal map for the need for social services? Experience in implementing these regional and other strategies, or rather the lack of such experience, does not allow me to be optimistic about how this national map of social services will be handled. Currently, the Ministry and the Agency for Social Assistance have basic functions and responsibilities in licensing service providers, i.e. the central government, and local authorities, municipal councils and the regional governors have a responsibility to develop and develop municipal and regional strategies for the development of social services, as well as plans for their implementation. A serious resource has been involved in the development of these strategies. Representatives of all interested parties were included "communal administrations," "Social assistance" and "non-governmental organizations," social service providers and other local authorities. All were committed to organising and implementing the social objective of these strategies to provide accessible and quality social services in the respective municipality and to contribute to the future development of municipal social policy as a modern, effective system of social services that puts the consumer at the heart of its policies, meets the needs of the community, provides equal access and continuously improves its quality. The strategies planned the development of social services and municipal policies and horizontal measures for social inclusion aimed at sustainable solutions to the problems of risk groups. Despite the superlatives, this whole thing didn't work out to the fullest. For example, in most of the cases where a social service is requested to be disclosed and financed by the local authorities, the lack of this service in the strategy was a reason for the refusal of the central government, but its presence in the strategy was not a guarantee of its disclosure. At the time, the inability to finance was highlighted. A number of questions arise: will the municipal regional strategies for social services development be used as a basis for the development of the national map for social services? I welcome the legal entities specifically created by the municipality for the provision of social services provided by the Law. I consider this an attempt to provide the social service where it is not attractive to external suppliers, but I am worried that this will lead to low quality and withdrawal of consumers, and there is a real threat that the municipality will control itself in this case. In conclusion, I would like to say: I find that the bill is based on common objectives, principles and rules that comply with the current requirements for the provision of social services in the community. At the same time, I think that the bill, even if we turn it after the vote into a law, will hardly work without the relevant regulation, such as rules on the implementation of the Law, where it is necessary to write in detail, for example, the principles of planning the amount of services and their prices, in order to ensure the supply and quality of services for all citizens in all places where they need them. I am pleased that the Law will enter into force from 2020 and will have the opportunity to look at all things, to make such regulations to make this otherwise framework law a good and effective law on social services. I would also mention that the opinions that I have read of all organisations, including those who have participated in the Law development process, including those who will benefit from this law, including organisations of people with disabilities and so on, are positive. I'm done here. I wish to us as legislators that we have done our job with the adoption of this law, and to those who will be concerned with the Law, consumers and providers of social services, those who will organise and control the process of providing them, have a high degree of satisfaction in their work! Thank you. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Gokov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any speeches from the other parliamentary groups? Mrs. Jeleva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u18	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! First of all, I want an extension of time because my colleague before me talks a lot.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u19	Please extend the time of the BSP group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u20	I'll save one part of the positive moments. I will move on to the questions that the proposed Bill has brought before us. The changes that have occurred in the Bulgarian society in the past years are characterized by social inequality and very deepening. For years, a complete amendment of the social system has been necessary, and rather in the field of social services, for which, naturally, I welcome the creation of the Law. As we said, although he was late, he was still discussed not under pressure with a preliminary assessment, with a preliminary concept, with numerous discussions, especially with a calm normative process. The reasons of the Law show one part of the reasons for its adoption and this is taken into account as difficulties in hiring qualified employees in the social services sector, especially because of low wages for work. This is one of the main problems that leads to the deterioration of the quality of social services. The necessary system change cannot be implemented only through stricter control or monitoring. In this regard, it is controversial to establish a new agency for the quality of social services of the Minister for Labour and Social Policy, which will carry out licensing, will monitor the control and compliance of quality standards. Although we have the assurance that the new agency will be established in the current state number of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, it will undoubtedly also require significant funds to create it. That's how it's written in the preliminary assessment. The question is: with what resources will these people be prepared to participate in the new agency because they will obviously have to undergo further training? It's good to have a social worker's work appreciated. To look for ways to make it worth paying, not to create n-numbers of agencies to dispel their responsibilities. The objectives of the Bill suggest a much more active commitment by the municipalities. Even more responsibilities of the local authorities in the process of planning, organizing and providing social services are involved, which will create another risk - lack of administrative capacity and staff, especially in smaller municipalities. Effective management of this risk implies further efforts in terms of qualification and training of experts who could ensure the achievement of the set objectives. During a review in the Commission in this regard, the Minister said in one of the chapters of the Bill that the people who are needed to achieve these objectives will have the right to introduce and build up training, to supervision. Yes, we accept a nice new word "supervision" but whether this will change the pay of labor, will take place and will really happen, we will see further in the signing of the regulation, where the standard of pay of labour will be based. Also in the process of discussion there was concern by the representatives of the National Association of Municipalities. The reform is quite large and will have to be introduced by municipalities before the Law enters. They must prepare the smooth process before the entry into force of the Law of 2021. Therefore, they expressed their opinion that additional resources should be provided in the state budget to implement this large-scale reform. I believe it must be foreseen, otherwise we will not achieve the desired result. The process of making the national map for social services can also become a serious test. We have examples of this. I'm not going to address the National Health Card because there's no previous experience. Here perhaps it will not even take into account the impact and size of the municipality, but rather in the existing expert staff and capacity of the administration. They must subsequently make it possible for all countries to attract the NGO sector and the private sector. Now he's relatively low. Despite the significant increase in the number of social services offered in the community, their volume is unable to cover existing needs. There is difficult access to the provision of certain social services due to uneven territorial distribution of the social services system. Thus, in 2012, there are waiting lists for some types of resident social service for people with mental disabilities, which shows a deficit of 60% of the existing capacity. The process of creating social services in the community itself shows some distortions in relation to the real needs. Social services are opened, which receive the highest funding from the state budget, often at the expense of such places where there is a real need for them. I therefore support the envisaged system of relations between the municipality, regional administration and central administration in the process of planning and managing social services by creating the capacity for impact at the nearest level at which the social problem arises, although with the creation of this relationship there are many questions. There is some misunderstanding to the provided social services, which will be from one municipality and will be able to benefit citizens from another municipality. Also those who are provided by the same area and will be able to enjoy all citizens. I suppose, however, that in the process of making the law itself to the end, until its final, at first and second reading, there will be good dialogue and we will make sure that some of the texts are refined. What I think is to have a wider public debate, because the scope of the proposed system and the change in terms of social services, as we said, are very wide-ranging. There must be better active public communication in the period before its entry. I'm saying this because we know how and what happened after the Law was passed on people with disabilities. There was a large part of people who were unfamiliar and could not be informed. They created question marks because they had no way of knowing what was going on next in the legislative process. They were very worried about getting their integration supplements and so on. Therefore, in my opinion, in order for there to be a real positive result and to attract all citizens to achieve the set goals, we need to attract citizens on our side and to have better public support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u21	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Are there any lines? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova. You have the floor for the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zheleva, extremely cross-sighted reading of the Project of the Law on Social Services! It has become clear from your speech that this draft of the Law on Social Services does not meet the basic philosophy, namely easier access to people's social services, especially to meet their needs and needs. What broad public discussion do you say in your speech after this has been done? Once the Law was done, there was a one-month discussion. The law was posted on the website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. It was then that there was an opportunity to hold this public discussion in advance, not after the Law was passed by the National Assembly. This law received very good assessments from both non-governmental specialists, from all institutions that worked for nearly one year in the working group of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and from municipalities received a very good assessment. For one year this working group has worked in an extraordinary consensus, in a dialogue regime. This was also the result of these positive assessments - especially this law to meet people's expectations and, above all, to have access to all social services, as well as to the quality of social services. With regard to the social services card, it is extremely necessary. You have also expressed in your exposé negativity regarding this map that it will not be able to fulfil its purpose. I believe that it is extremely important and necessary, long-awaited by the non-governmental sector, because it is the main tool for long-term planning of social services based on the analysis of people's needs and needs.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any other lines? I won't. Mrs. Jeleva, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u24	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Angelova, I am surprised at your line because I think you listened carefully and I don't know why you didn't understand me, though? This is precisely what I started by saying that I welcome the creation of this bill and the way it has been implemented for having gone into good dialogue, with a good normative process. Administrations to the people who worked so long in the working groups. You've missed that, you've probably been distracted. Also the positive points that you expressed, I said I was missing them because they were mentioned several times by the pre-speakers. The reports of each committee mentioned what was new in the Bill. We are MPs and I believe that one thing should not be repeated three, four or five times to understand it. Also, of course, I said there were some question marks, but I didn't say I disagree with that. I am telling you and I am focusing on them so that between first and second readings they can be corrected or refined. For the difficulties I have talked about creating the National Social Services Card, it is more from the point of view that staff and administrative capacity should be trained, not that I am opposed to the creation of this card. My colleague has previously said that we welcome the creation of such a map, but it may be difficult to create it because there is not enough administrative capacity and it needs to be trained for which, therefore, financial resources are also needed. That's what I've been paying attention to. I'm sorry you misunderstand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Come in for a statement, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Deputy Minister! Colleagues, our attention is given to the third law of the social laws package, which are primarily aimed at reforming the social sector. I would like to say a few words about the procedure under which this bill has been reached, because this procedure has gone to close to one year's work so that the final version can be reached. What do I mean? In the beginning, interested parties were identified in the face of the National Association of Municipalities, the non-governmental sector, which has experience in the provision of social services, the scientific environments and all those who have a bearing on the problem called "social services." Next, a concept was developed which was subject to wide public discussion. There was even a preliminary version of a discussion in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. The bill was reviewed by the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. The Bill has drawn up an extremely serious and professional impact assessment that an impact assessment examines the proposed draft in terms of several options. A serious financial framework has also been prepared, approved by the Ministry of Finance and finally came to this project. Even the most serious critics of legislation and legislation in the National Assembly can hardly find gaps, at least in the procedure for drafting this bill. I say this for a reason in connection with the discussions about what the National Assembly is doing in preparation of individual bills. Why did it come to the need for a new law on social services? First of all, I would like to remind you that 20 years ago, a Social Assistance Act was adopted. In 2004, the texts governing social services were adopted in Chapter 4. During this period, the practice of applying these laws and the increased social inequalities in society, on the one hand, and the need and need to meet the individual needs of individual beneficiaries required a change in the methodology for social services. What do I mean? In 2000, or at the beginning, when the Social Assistance Act was adopted, the social services were set aside about 30 million. While now, for this year's social services, the budget is 264 million, which means that however much money for social services increases, if we do not change the structure and improve the functional characteristics of social services, we can hardly reach quality. What's new about the proposed bill? Very briefly, what is new is that if so far the right to social services had mostly the people of vulnerable groups, now all Bulgarian citizens have the right to social services. The publicly available services are for all Bulgarian citizens. For them there is no need for assessment, nor for direction, from accommodation orders and so on. All Bulgarian citizens have the right to publicly available social services, which is a step forward because in the end all Bulgarian citizens are taxpayers and are entitled to services offered in the community. I would like to emphasise deeply the difference between social assistance, social care and social services. It is very difficult to understand this difference, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Social assistance is the second defence constitutional network in the state after social security, regulated in art. 51 of our Constitution. Social support with funds or funds in the form of a kind helps vulnerable Bulgarian citizens who cannot alone or with the help of their property to satisfy their basic vital needs. Services are different. They aim to minimize, eliminate opportunities for social exclusion, mobilise all the social service beneficiary's own resources, so that it can be separated from both family support and community support. This is extremely important because we cannot see social services as unified support. It is not support for the support itself, but it is support for meeting individual needs, whether after evaluation or after direction from municipalities. And when I say the municipalities, I would like to stress that the National Association of Municipalities and all municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria have an extremely serious role in the new law. What do I mean? Several are the highlights of the proposed law. The first emphasis is facilitating access to social services. Why are you stressing this moment? Because currently from 265 municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, in 47 municipalities there is no social service, i.e. 18% of Bulgarian municipalities do not have any registered social service. In order to guarantee access to these services, there must be a completely different approach. Next, however increased the financial resources, whatever access to these services, if there is no structure responsible for the qualities of these services, and not this control, now the quality control and compliance with the legislation is in several institutions. At present is the Agency for Social Assistance through the Inspectorate, on the one hand, and the State Agency for Child Protection, which carry out the control. What is now proposed with the new Agency for Quality of Social Services is that control is in one place. A few words about why the state is withdrawing from the provision of social services. She still doesn't provide services. What is the state doing now in current law? The state finances and controls. Implementation, management, the provision of social services is a commitment of municipalities, or if this activity is outsourced, under the current legislation is a commitment of non-governmental organisations, that is, the state has quite different functions. A few words about the role of the municipalities. Fellow Members, this is extremely important because the so-called pros who will perform, will perform, will manage these social services, should be sufficiently qualified. Are they qualified enough? The answer is single. In any case, it is difficult to argue that their qualifications are currently at the necessary level. What is offered to qualify? What is in the capabilities of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, with the opportunities of schemes and operations from the Operational Program "Human Resources Development" in order to support preliminary preparation, periodic training, building training or so-called "supervision" can be in a regime of continuous preparation and improvement of qualification, because in order to be able to provide quality services, you must be sufficiently prepared and one more very important thing to be motivated enough. And here I open a clamp to motivate you, you have to get enough funding. At the moment, it is no secret to anyone that people who work in this area receive a minimum or around the minimum wage. In order for these people to be motivated, to be qualified, we need to think seriously about this in any case in the following budgets. Here immediately comes the question of financing social services. How should they be financed? Currently, funding by standard is a state delegated activity. There must be a differentiation of this standard of funding in terms of individual needs. If we are talking about the most modern, most modern form of support for social services of financing, this is the private budget, but we have not reached that point, we may have to go a long way to get to that and the beneficiaries themselves to manage their own budget. It's the most modern form, but we have to walk the other forms. At first, there must be differentiation of the standard and not uniformity in order for it to be of interest in the exercise of the provision of social services. Next, the so-called National Social Services Card. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on this national map shall not in any case be regarded as an administrative document which has been dropped from above to fill the white fields. There are no social services here. Let's see them out there! Who's going to expose them? Will there be interest in whether municipalities have capacity, whether non-governmental organisations have an interest in revealing social services where they are not now? The answer to this question is difficult for the administration to give, and that is why the approach taken is from the bottom up and not from the top down. Local communities, municipalities, regional governments are the ones who must first analyse the needs of social services and offer the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to the new agency. It is no coincidence that this national map of health services is given a transitional period in which this complicated path can be walked until the national map of social services is reached. The lapsus is not random because the association with the national health card is immediately required. The problems with this national health card should be a lesson to us, not to make the same mistakes in drawing up the national social services map. Why is this national map of social services important? In order to facilitate access, on the one hand; in order to have quality of the services provided; in order to have the integration of the services provided and to have the possibility of a public-private partnership. This is extremely important because no matter how much the state resource is increasing, whatever money there is in this system, if the provision of social services is not further supported by individuals and legal entities, if it is not supported by the non-governmental sector, which provides social services, if it is not supported by the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" with individual schemes, we can hardly rely on this to improve the current situation. With a magic wand, problems can't be solved. It must be hard work and it is not a coincidence that social work on individual cases is the one that can lead to good results. And whether or not the results will be good should have a criterion for taking into account the quality of the provided social services. There is therefore a possibility for additional provision, additional drafting of regulations. The other thing I want to tell you is that on social services, as a modern social phenomenon, we should not view as services that can solve all problems. There is no way to solve the problems of the whole social sphere. They have a strict purpose. I repeat: the task of social services is to minimize the possibilities for social exclusion, to support the individual capabilities of each person who is a potential beneficiary of social services only to break away from dependence on family dependence, dependence on the community. This is extremely important, and if we manage to understand it, it means that we have taken the first step, the first successful step in solving multiple problems in the social sphere. I am pleased that this law is supported by consensus in almost all committees. Of course, between first and second readings we will try to review the proposals once again so that we can, with a serious law, meet the needs of Bulgarian citizens from social services.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Are there any lines? Mr. Mikhailov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Dr. Ademov, I am extremely impressed by your speech, which was like a dissection of the Law that is currently being proposed. Certainly this law is one step ahead, but I would tell you in my line to further develop your thesis from the position we are currently in. You have very well mentioned that the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" will in fact only affect the qualification of personal assistants. And what you mentioned in just one sentence that the personal budget, in practice the participation of the beneficiary in the management of these social services, is crucial for their implementation in the required volume. How do you imagine it with the current level of pension insurance to happen at all? In practice, this law is currently a very good wish, but in no case at the current level of pension insurance can be of help to the entire nation. And that is why the big question that puts our political power has always been about radical reform in this regard. Otherwise the Law is great as an idea, there are many things that can be further developed, but the level from which we are going is practically blocking its realization. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u29	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! Dear Mr. Ademov, your expertise on this topic is respectful, but I will nevertheless give my own opinion. I believe that with the creation of a new agency for the quality of social services, it will contribute precisely to resolving this issue. There is now an Inspectorate that can be assigned additional duties, as is the licensing of social service providers, and this role to be performed by this inspectorate. What I am saying right now, I have commented on it in many municipalities, and they are of the same opinion. We in Bulgaria became kings of the establishment of agencies. Only in the last two months have we established an Agency for Disabilities, a Road Safety Agency. Instead of the authorities that have been set up to carry out their duties in the relevant direction, 11 state agencies, 33 executive agencies, committees, institutes, all with budgets and by setting up an agency, they begin to employ additional numbers, to ask for additional funds, and this aggravates the state budget. And what they play as their role is the same thing that was before... Recently, you have also seen the reports that are being exported about what salaries and bonuses are being given at the various agencies. I'm totally against it! It is better that this money, which must be given to this new agency, is given to employees who perform social services on the ground. They get extremely, extremely low pay! And as it is low pay, it is very difficult to find people to perform these social services. Better part of this money to give it to raise their starting professional level and career growth than for a new agency. And the second question I will probably delay the time, Mr. Chairman, is about the relationship between the municipalities. There are "Social assistance" who are responsible for two or three municipalities. Usually, where the Social Assistance Directorate is located in one of the municipalities, there are also concentrated services that are carried out for these two or three municipalities. What do you get in practice, though? In the Law, which is proposed in Articles 55 and 56, the relations between municipalities in the area, between them sound like a wish. In practice, a service created now and implemented in one municipality, the other municipalities do not pay for it, although they use this service and it is particularly screaming the issue of maintaining the professional basis for carrying out this service. The other municipalities do not take any part, the state does not take any part. And you know that in recent times, own funds in the municipalities have been decreasing. They cannot carry out this activity. They have additional activities and their own funds are reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u31	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. Is there anyone who wants a third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ademov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, I've probably been misunderstood. When I talk about managing a personal budget, I don't mean this budget that had, for example, social security, support and so on. It is about support from the point of view of providing services, of this budget, which is supported by the State. Here I want to open a clamp and further develop the thesis why the Law claims that the state is withdrawing from providing social services. The state does not withdraw from financing social services because the budget for social services is 264 million. lv. The state continues to finance the social services that are in the map. The state is still in control. As to whether or not this is about assistant support. In this law, the assistant support is only for those who do not have personal assistance under the other law which we adopted before the New Year, that is, those who are not financed under another order, are entitled to such assistant support and it is after an assessment of the needs of the Social Assistance Agency. You go to the Social Assistance Department, they tell you that you need such support, and if they hire you, like, two or four or eight hours of assistant support, they also provide you with it as a social service. Next in line with this, Mr. Dinkov, whether there should be an agency. First, we must carefully read the Law in order to conclude that there is no additional funding. There's a functional transfer, so-called, of footage from one agency and the other. Currently, activities of two structures are intertwined: the State Agency for Child Protection, on the one hand, and the Inspectorate of the Agency for Social Assistance, which overlap their activities. The composition of this agency will be of 111 people, explicitly underlined in the Law that there will be no additional state numbers. This is within the State of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and secondary authorising officers. There are no new people. There are no new people, no additional resources, so that money that you want to save to go to qualification, is not here in this law, in this idea of structuring the Agency. So far you know that the Social Services Agency was registered when it came to adults. The regime will now be licensed and this new agency will be committed to licensing. Regarding what you said about the relations between municipalities. The Law proposes that the services be within a municipality. When a municipality cannot reveal the relevant social service, there should be a sharing of responsibilities between two municipalities. It is true that there is a need to detail the relationships of municipalities when it comes to providing intercommunal services. There is another option: within the field services can be revealed, in which to participate from all over Bulgaria, from all over the country. This also requires a certain detailing, but this can also be done in regulations. Otherwise I am extremely pleased with the fact that this project gives a base, a serious platform for discussion. It is the discussion that can lead to good decisions. There should also be critical remarks, there should also be praises for the Law, because efforts have been made by the importers of this bill. After all, the interest of all who are in this Chamber and of all Bulgarian citizens is to provide quality social services, the financial resource that allocates all Bulgarian taxpayers to be effective, efficiently used in terms of needs, not to distribute or provide services to the Scalpak. Let us give to those or those who vote for us in the municipalities, but to make sure that those who have specific needs are satisfied with the financial resources of the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. The word for procedure is here, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal, as we are entering the time for parliamentary control, and it is extremely important that we adopt the Social Services Bill, that we extend the working time until the adoption of the Social Services Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u35	I understand it this way: to continue working on this point until the adoption of the Law, then we will conduct parliamentary control. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Mrs. Svetlana Angelova. Please vote. [[Noise and lines. Members of the National Assembly shall enter the Chamber.]] We'll wait for the votes of our fellow Members who enter the Chamber. Here you go. [[Noise and lines.]] Dear Members of Parliament, we are voting on a procedure to extend the time to discuss the point. We do not vote on the Law, but we will wait for everyone who has entered the Chamber to vote. They voted 146 MPs: 137, against 2, abstention 7. Ms. Naydenova's proposal to continue the discussion of the Bill until its adoption, in the framework of today's meeting, has been adopted. Are there any other statements? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! I am glad, after all, that there is excitement in the Chamber and that quite a large part of the MPs have returned, because exactly ten minutes ago here almost nobody was interested in the Social Services Act. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] But let's get to the point. Under the Social Services Act, it is extremely important to mention some key points. I'm going to say a few important things that are essential to hear. The law is well structured and all interested parties have been involved in its work, so today it deserves maximum agreement. Its texts aim at improving the quality and accessibility of social services and the integrated nature. But I will not spare myself the things that raise a number of questions and which it is important to mention in the course of the discussion. A very large number of these were mentioned by the pre-speakers, but I will emphasise to some of them in greater detail. As Mr. Ademov just said, out of 265 municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria there are 47 municipalities in which no social services are provided. In the new Social Services Act, as we see, there will be an Agency for the Quality of Social Services and a National Social Services Card will be established with a view to making it more accessible and more equal, so that all municipalities in Bulgaria have a minimum package of social services to provide on their territory. Yes, but in the texts, the question arises: how will the municipalities, which do not currently have such social services, be secured through the national planning of this card with a minimum package of social services? If we answer the question: why there are no social services in the territory of these municipalities, the answer is this: due to the lack of financial resources and the necessary administrative capacity. And by the fact that we in the Law are asking the possibility of creating social services throughout the country, we do not answer the question of how we will secure it. Already in the preliminary assessment, and anyone who has become acquainted with the Law will see that the financial resources that the state should set aside under the Social Services Act are still unclear, but it will be double. Will the state be able to meet these needs? The other thing that very seriously raises a lot of questions is the transfer of great responsibility to the Bulgarian municipalities and is their new responsibility sufficiently financially secured? At the moment we see that the planning of social services will be moved along the prism from the bottom up.. will be explored all the needs of stakeholders in the territory of the municipality concerned, after which this thing will be fixed in this national map, which in 2021 will have to be made. However, I ask the question: if the municipality does not have the necessary administrative capacity and financial resources, how will this thing be secured? I am very worried that this is another commitment of the Bulgarian municipalities without the necessary financial provision. The other thing that is extremely important is the payment of social services. In the way it is introduced in the texts of the Law, we will see some very good things about employees. I am talking about quality standards that include qualification standards and professional development of employees who carry out the activities of providing services, of supervision of mentoring, and something else - standards for paying employees' labour. I ask the question: where is the financial resource and will it be sufficiently secure? Because if we now see reality as it is, we will see that people working in the social sphere receive extremely low remuneration. I very much hope that these standards of labour pay really will give decent pay to people working in the social sphere.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u37	The weather, Mrs. Zhekova. The time of the group is up, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u38	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, there is a lot more I wanted to say about our remarks, which we will do at second reading, but to assure you that we will support at first reading. I hope now from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy that we will get an answer to at least some of the questions that we have asked and which in some way must be a signal lamp for the regulation that must be adopted once we have adopted the Law today. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u39	Thank you. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Sirakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u40	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Deputy Minister! In the last decade, the environment for providing social services and people's needs has changed dramatically, but so dramatically that this law may be one of the most awaited laws in recent years. He is tasked with laying the foundations and giving guidance to the reform that is needed in the social sphere in the provision of social services. We believe that the Law lays this foundation, it is stable and the direction is correct. I will not list the main new moments in the Law. I'll only mark the most important ones for me without getting into the details. And this is precisely, first of all, the provision of the opportunity for all people to have access to social services. Secondly is decentralisation to the community at local level. Third is the creation of the National Social Services Card. In fourth place, the individual approach and the complex assessment can finally find their realization in practice. And last but not least, I think, is the establishment of the new agency for quality of social services. In addition to licensing, regulating and controlling social service providers, it has two more tasks. The first, mandatory task, of course, is to control the provision of social services. But the most important task, in my opinion, is to monitor trends in the development of needs in users of social services so that social services can be adapted adequately and in due time so that it does not come to situations where the needs of citizens are one and there is a gap with the provision of social services. I believe that this law will give a serious basis on which it will be possible to meet these needs through sub-traumatic acts and really make the long-awaited reform in the provision of social services. Of course, for me the biggest challenge is breaking the institutional matrix. We know that employees over the years are entering a matrix and it is difficult to change their view and their way of thinking to adapt to people's needs. For me personally, this is the biggest challenge. Thank you for the speeches from BSP colleagues. Your opinions are valuable. They're more focused on potential risks. I believe that the team of the Ministry, under the leadership of Mr. Minister and his deputies, means these risks so that they are minimized or completely removed. I believe we will get between the two readings your constructive proposals. In the last year, we have come a difficult way through the adoption of the Law on Persons with Disabilities and the Law on Personal Aid. I think we've all learned our lessons, our lessons. We have enough experience to enable this law, which is actually fundamental to social services, to do it in such a way, eliminating the emotion that it really is a working Law that does not need to be changed so often, but against giving opportunities for development in the future. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u41	Thank you, Mr. Sirakov. Are there any lines? I don't see any requests. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Popovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! The Parliamentary Group of "United Patriarchs" is conceptually supporting this law, which is one of the long-awaited laws of the troika social laws of the government of GERB and the "United Patriarchs." We reserve the right for second reading to invite the administration of the Ministry for clarification texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u43	Thank you, Mr. Popovski. - What's the line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Anyone who wants to make any other speeches? Here you are, Dr. Naydenova. [[Comments from GERB: "They have no time! "]] Excuse me, Dr. Naydenova! I am quite rightly told by the Chamber that the time of the group is up. I'm sorry I let you down. Statements from other parliamentary groups? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. Mr. Secretary, will you take the floor? You have this opportunity. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honored guests! I take the floor to thank you all for the active and meaningful discussion on the Social Services Act. Allow me also from this platform to thank all the experts who participated in the nearly one year's work on preparation and consultation on this bill. I am pleased that you have appreciated their work by thanking all those who have spoken who have pointed out the merits of this bill. I won't go into details. I will only try to answer the questions raised by the Members of the National Assembly on the bill. I would just like to point out that this bill also extends the field of public-private partnership, which has proven its utility and the need for the development of the social services sector, and also focuses on integrated approach and services, which are the adequate response to the complex needs that people now have of integrated support. I would like to emphasise in response to the question raised about the role of municipalities in implementing this bill. It is clear that municipalities also now play a major role as social service providers, and this bill takes a step towards real decentralisation, which has already begun, of social services. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this decentralisation and these new additional responsibilities which take over municipalities, related primarily to the targeting of social services, are secured, explicitly referred to in art. 45 of the Bill that the State has a commitment to finance all the services included in the National Social Services Card, covering the costs not only for the service but also the costs associated with directing the use of a service. In conclusion, I would point out that with this bill, the government implements the commitment to develop and submit to the National Assembly a package of bills aimed at the rights of the people of the vulnerable groups of our society. I am pleased that in the Committees' speeches, the bill found support. I also hope that this support will be declared with the vote to come. As the Ministry we are ready in time between the two readings of the Bill to assist in examining all proposals that will improve the texts of the Bill. Thanks again. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u45	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, we're going to vote. I vote on the Social Services Bill, No 802-01-57, tabled by the Council of Ministers. They voted 163 MPs: 163, no opposition and no abstentions. [[Applause.]] The bill has been passed. Honourable Members, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. I will read you the new questions for the period from 11 January to 17 January 2019: A question was received from the MPs Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev, Ivan Ibrishimov, Anelia Klisarova, Valentina Naydenova and Georgi Gokov to Minister Kiril Ananiev about the organization of transplant treatment in Bulgaria. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 25 January. A question was received from the National Representative Georgi Gokov to Tomislav Donchev on policies regarding Roma integration. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 25 January 2019. A question was received from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev to Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, concerning the policy of the Ministry for the implementation of electronic wineries. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 25 January 2019. Total number of questions Written answers from: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the National Representative Emil Hristov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Dessislava Atanasova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov of two questions from the MPs Vesela Lecheva and Yavor Bojankov; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question from the National Representative Stefan Burgeev; - from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov to two questions from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - from the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to two questions from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - from the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Lyubomir Bonev; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on 11 issues from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska. We'll continue with the questions. Ekaterina Zaharieva - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs - will answer a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin about the government's measures regarding Bulgarians residing in the UK. You have the floor, dear Mr. Vigenin, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Leaving the European Union from Britain is in its final phase. The uncertainty about the process remains, but there are still three options anyway. One is leaving on the basis of a negotiated agreement, albeit in a changed version. The second exit without agreement, the so-called hard Brexit. And the third non-leaving, which, after the last votes in the British Parliament, is becoming less and less likely. It is increasingly likely that Britain will leave without any agreement with the European Union, with all the consequences. The working and living in the territory of the UK, Bulgarian citizens, about 90 thousand according to official data, are much more informal, naturally one such development will affect them seriously. Along with this there are British citizens who are resident in Bulgaria, there are other questions that are facing Bulgaria. My question to you, Deputy Prime Minister, is: has the government prepared an action plan for the various options and, in this case, more and more markedly for leaving Britain without an agreement? Is Bulgaria and the government ready to contribute to better awareness of the consequences for the Bulgarian citizens and their rights? Have assessments been made about the possibility of returning Bulgarian citizens to Bulgaria in such a situation and are specific measures envisaged for their reception? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u48	Dear Mr. Vice-President, dear Mr. Vigenin, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I really thank you for the question, because it is extremely timely. As you have listed, these options still exist, although less and less likely become the first two, given the expected vote, unfortunately, which happened this week in the British Parliament. As early as last year in June, the Council of European Affairs of the Council of Ministers developed and adopted a framework position on three options, one of which was a withdrawal without agreement. As negotiations progressed, and although we were literally hoping that there would still be an agreement and that the worst for all options, I have sent a letter to all the relevant departments by September asking them to update the three plans, but also to focus on this third exit without an agreement, i.e. speeding up work on all possible options. Last Friday, before the vote, I stress, there was a Council on European Affairs right in the form of Brexit in Bulgaria, as the main point, in fact the only point was the clear graphic plan, i.e. in the scenario, which was developed and adopted for preparation for exit without a deal. I also recall that, as early as December, the government, the prime minister, came up with a non-peiper and with an explicit statement addressed to all European citizens who live in Britain, that whether or not agreement will be reached on the agreement will be reached, the rights of the citizens who live there will be as agreed in it, yet the significant difference will be that they will be such for those who live until the date of departure. We are losing what has been achieved in the transitional period for European citizens who have arrived to live in Britain on the transitional period agreed in the draft agreement. Last year the Bulgarian Embassy there started organizing an information campaign among the Bulgarian community in the UK and there were already many meetings outside the embassy, with only two held since the beginning of the year. They started last year. By the middle of this year, another 20 are planned, but not only in London, I stress, but also in all parts of the United Kingdom, including Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales. We are taking a pro-active position so that Bulgarian citizens can be informed at the earliest stage about what is next about the conditions of registration, about their rights. Of course, on the embassy's website and on the Facebook page a special section of Breczit's new rules was opened. So we are preparing for all possible options, and since last year we started with these information campaigns. It is no secret that however negotiations develop, Bulgarian citizens in the UK are obliged to re-registered, that is, this was agreed in the agreement itself. That is why we have strengthened the composition of the embassy and is about to open a new office of consular service in London, i.e. to have more places to submit the documents. About the mass return. There have been such expectations since the British citizens voted in the referendum and decided to leave the European Union, but I would say in a way, unfortunately, those have not been justified. Because Bulgarian citizens are the greatest wealth of our country and we would love for anyone who decides to come back to live in Bulgaria, although so far the forecasts for this mass return do not happen. With regard to the citizens of the UK who live in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, according to official data there are about 4 thousand, I can assure them that this joint decision of the working group with the Ministry of Interior that there will be real registration, respectively reciprocity as there will be for our citizens there. They are welcome to stay in Bulgaria. Also very important is visa-free short-term travel. You know that UK tourists are very important for our business, and it is also very important that our citizens can travel short, free and without restrictions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u49	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. A line, dear Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! It's good that something is being done, but from our point of view, that's far from enough. I don't think there's a well-structured team working on these processes. We are in contact with some of the organizations of Bulgarian citizens in Britain. For example, some of these measures that you mention are obviously not enough, they are quite limited, they do not reach people, and this is definitely a problem for them. I have tried to find out a little more about the results of the analyses that you have done, possible answers to the letter you sent to the ministers, but I have hardly been able to find anything as a result of these analyses "How Bulgaria imagines this hard Brexit and what the problems would be, although as early as December the European Commission in its communication on an emergency action plan for the European Commission to the Member States, the Council and Parliament have identified the measures that the Member States should take in such a situation. I found information about Denmark, which publishes brochures about both the Danish in the UK and the British in Denmark. Estonia has prepared a list of legislative measures to be implemented, provided that there is a firm Brexit. In Greece, a neighbouring Greece has very detailed information regarding the areas that will be most affected at the outset, such as topics such as police cooperation, medical products, intellectual property, driver's licenses and registration of cars, air transport. A 50-million-dollar action plan was adopted in France and authorized the government to issue decrees to take prompt measures if necessary. A special law will be passed in the Netherlands in January, which also solves the most important key issues and the gaps where they will be found and work on the readiness of next steps. Unfortunately, including today, and your participation in the Committee on Foreign Policy this week, and also in the media, we have not seen any specifics. I am speaking all this not to criticize you, but to encourage you to be a little more specific, to structure work better, especially now under the threat of such a rapid development towards a firm Brexit. However, as a supplementary question to ask: since these analyses are being carried out, is there any indicative action, measures that the government is planning to take in relation to, firstly, the issues of tourism and possible visas that stand on the agenda.. It is clear that visa policy is European, but this can probably be negotiated at a preliminary stage: to take any short-term measures by each Member State, first, and, second... in respect of small and medium-sized enterprises, something that has been noted, including in the Commission's communication on the protection of deposits of these small and medium-sized enterprises and, accordingly, the protection of their trade relations with the United Kingdom? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u52	Dear Mr Vigenin, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Each of the departments has made a very clear analysis of exactly what needs to be changed and what follows with firm Brexit. The analysis must be adopted again at the Council this Friday, so I will ask them to publish everything. With regard to visas. The Commission, as you rightly pointed out, is a common policy, has already amended legislation and has included UK citizens in those who can travel visa-free, so this issue is solved with a common approach. The same applies to European citizens, of course, when it depends and is conditional. This is now one of the 24, if I am not mistaken, the legislative act that the Commission amended or is at a different stage of amendment so as to achieve a common approach in the most sensitive areas in the first 12 months if there is a firm Brexit. They will have a 12-month framework with exactly the idea of a temporary approach in order to achieve more lasting solutions to the issue of future relations in these months. Some of them are, of course, about bank relations and deposits. Trade relations. The lack of a deal means trading with Britain under the rules of the World Trade Organisation. At the moment, the Commission is in talks about quota allocation, so to speak, about Britain, where we have common quotas like the European Union. A temporary measure for lack of difficulties has also been adopted again. The desire was not to create barriers and difficulties, on the one hand, of the European Union, on the other hand, of Britain. In any case, they will be a third country and they will be subject to the general rules that are applicable to third countries on importation into the European Union, respectively. You know that some of the most concerned you mentioned all the spheres, I agree, I could add the drugs. The Commission also decided on a common approach in 12 months so as not to hinder imports or export and access of medicines to the European market accordingly. For Bulgaria, I would add the car transport is extremely important. The Commission also adopted a decision on a common approach with regard to air transport, but road transport is one of the most important and sensitive measures under which the Ministry of Transport operates. In fact, it will be about visas, as it is once again a common policy, whether the UK will succeed in such a short time by March 29th, to join a convention relating to road transport. The truth is that in every field of public life there will be consequences after Britain's exit from the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u53	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. That concludes the questions for you. Thank you for participating today in parliamentary control. We continue with questions to Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, who will answer a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov about the request for an increase in the cost of water in the water supply. You have the floor, dear Mr. Ivanov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, fellow Members! Dear Minister, this question was asked before the New Year, when you should have answered here what are the reasons of the water company to ask for an increase in the price of water. It is a fact that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission increased the cost of water for Shumen region before the New Year at a closed session at the request of the water operator whose principal is the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. The fact is that from 1 January 2019 the water supply will sell to the citizens cubic water for BGN 3.40. with VAT, provided so far it was 3.30 BGN, and this makes it the most expensive price of water in Bulgaria. Despite the delay in replying, I think that the current issue is becoming more and more up-to-date and it is extremely important today to hear from you on what grounds, with what motives and with what desired effect the Water and Water Regulatory Commission has proposed to approve the increase in the price of drinking water for the subscribers of the company and to make it the most expensive in the country? Just for the record, from the threshold of a socially bearable price, there are 11 ccs. If you push, you, as the principal of the company, think that at an accelerated pace this spring can become this work. In addition to what reason, with what reasons, with what desired effect, I ask you to answer here, because citizens are also interested, who is directly responsible for this action of the water company to raise the price? Is this the manager of the water company, are these the municipal councils and mayors who have approved the business plan of the water company, which is requested and is at stake an enormous increase in the price, or are you as a representative of the state and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, and as a majority owner of the water company? Indeed, Madam Minister, answer me this question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u55	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u56	I believe that the sitting is led by the President of the National Assembly, not by the Members of Parliament present in the Chamber, who sometimes confuse their place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, honourable MPs! In relation to your question, Mr. Ivanov, the cost of water and energy services is validated by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works conducts policies in the industry, but pricing is a matter which is one of the competence of water and energy regulation operators and the Commission. The prices on the territory of Shumen district are formed in accordance with the regulatory requirements for each type of service provided by the Water and Water Regulatory Commission and the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission approved the business plan of the Water and Shumen, respectively the prices of the services providing operational and capital costs for the renewal of the water systems to ensure sustainability of the services provided. The costs of electricity, fuels, labour are also included in the price formation, which are dynamic and affect the price of the water service. The rules for setting and changing the prices of water services and introducing price proposals and validating them, the regulatory accountability of the water operators, as well as the methods for regulating the prices of water supply and sewerage services are laid down by the Regulation for regulating the prices of water supply and sewerage services, and the quality of the services is regulated by the Regulation for regulating water supply and sewerage services. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has adopted guidelines and decisions on the application of those regulations for the regulatory period under which it simultaneously approves the prices of the water operator for the first year and prices for the subsequent five-year period. Prices are changed at the end of the price period with the inflation index, which takes into account the impact on the costs incurred, including improving the efficiency of the company. The Commission Decision of 25 September 2017 on energy and water regulation approved the business plan for the development of the activity of I would like to point out that the water infrastructure in our country is not in good technical condition and you probably know it because for the replacement of the water infrastructure for decades the funds have not been sufficient. For the territory of the Shumen region in the Investment Programme of its business plan, the operator has placed an investment of 3 million. 230,000. lv. in the most urgent measures, such funds shall be provided through the cost of water services within the limits of their social tolerance. In addition to the planned investments in the business plan, I note that the Water and Water Networks Board is committed to implementing a project to complete the water systems, including a drinking water treatment plant in Shumen, worth 134,5 million. BGN, which will be financed by the European Union funds through Operational Programme "Environment" and the co-financing must be provided by the water operator. These are investments aimed at improving the water service, reducing leaks, accidents and will ensure better efficiency. They are in favour of consumers and must be made, but there is no way that these investments and co-financing by the water operator will not affect the price of drinking water. There is no way the water service can be free of charge and you know it The water sector needs investment and technological renovation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u59	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Mr. Minister, Dear colleagues! Madam Minister, I just want to tell you two things and then I will tell you what conclusions I have drawn from your exhibition. First of all, the water that Sumerians drink is water for watering. You can check that out! It comes from a source that's for watering. This is not drinking water, this is water of the worst quality, the darkest water and the highest price. Secondly, what you told us about the business plan of the Water Company is sustainable. One is the lack of investment, because what you said is not happening. The other is the constant upload of the price is sustainable, we have reached the highest price of water in Bulgaria. Next is that the water company gradually went bankrupt. In practice, it is in insolvency, it is almost bankrupt, it is decapitalised. Please check this information because your predecessor and I have talked a lot here on this topic and he has not denied it. The other thing I've learned from you is that the main responsibility is that you will confirm it in your coat for raising the price of water is the director of the water company Shumen, and the municipal councils that approved the business plan. Correct me if I'm wrong. And answer me one question in your ass, because I expect there to be one. The director of the water company, who is resigned, has called a general meeting on what basis to ask you, because he has published to the media an open letter transferring all responsibility, Madam Minister, to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, to the principal. Have you approved, have you been informed? He says: "I am an ordinary performer! I can give you the letter, he released it to the media, to the whole public of Shumen, that you are responsible! And from your answer, I understand that he was responsible and that the municipality is responsible, that is, the municipal councils, those who approved the business plan. That's where you get away with it, that is, with the allegations, you and your subordinates. Please answer us: do you know about this meeting? Will you support the reduction in the cost of water? Will you continue to tolerate this management of the water company? Your predecessor has said here several times that this management is wrong, it must be changed, we know that it is resigned, that you have recently made a change in the management of this company to make it so that Sumerians have a truly socially acceptable cost of water. I personally doubt that the investments you are talking about, in this state of the water company and in the way it is managed, will be made at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, the debate about the price of water in the water water resort, Shumen, Shumen and all the water companies are in one enchanted circle. First, you want to have the quality of the service offered for all who are at the water supply. That's what we want. In order to have the quality of the service offered, there must be facilities built to provide it, there must be a treatment plant, there must be a good plumbing and sewerage network. In order to have one, funds must be provided. To provide funds, they have nowhere to come, besides being calculated in the cost of water. These investments must be made and you have just confirmed that in Shumen they should drink and use quality water. Both I and you probably agree that these investments should be made. These investments, which will be made under the programme, where Shoumen is a beneficiary of more than 130 million, must be made. In order for the water supply to be able to provide funds for investment in the water supply network in order to provide funds for co-financing, it must take them from somewhere. There's a reference, and I'll give you a few details of it. In their business plan, in fact, what they have offered from the Water and Water and Shumen, which the municipal councils have voted on, is to give a chance to invest in the water network and improve the service.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u63	There isn't one.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u64	What is after the price update is the price of cubic water 2,173 lv. for 2018, BGN 2,211 respectively for 2019, i.e. an increase of 0,038 BGN for a cube. 4 cm or 4 cm. for a cube. m.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u65	Will you support a reduction in the cost of water?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u66	What we think of as average consumption in the separate territory is 5.7 cube. m. If we consider the increase also for those who have a sewer service, one user's account for the 5 cc water consumed will be 48 cc's. We are open to any dialogue where we can consult, to talk about such conversations are already conducted in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, to find a way and to help those social groups who are not able to pay this price of water if they consume 5 ccs, to pay 15 lv. the value of the service needed. We are open to this kind of dialogue, but in fact we all have to agree that if we want a better quality of the service, we need to invest. In order to invest, the budget of the water supply must have these funds, so that the water supply, regardless of its director, has the means to operate and carry out these investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u67	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for participating in parliamentary control today. We are continuing with Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, who will answer a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova about the responsibility for violations of official duties. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u68	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, for one year now, and in my opinion this is a long enough period of time, a reason for public discussion and reactions in Gabrovo and the region is a case of a civil servant holding a position. The same shall terminate his service unilaterally and shall leave before the proceedings for the imposition of the disciplinary penalty prescribed for the infringement have been closed. I would just like to remind you that the employee in question has identified 43 violations in a 50-page report. The level of the position at which this is taking place, the way in which it is happening, together with the sensitivity and responsibility of the sphere in the field of social assistance and the need for violations, raises a number of questions. There is no doubt that public interest and reactions are legitimate and understandable. Taking the occasion of this case, my question to you is: in the specific and similar cases of relationships in which you are the appointing authority, what will be the real dimensions and how will the disciplinary and in general the responsibility for committed violations be applied and taken over? What are the consequences for the employee who committed violations? Because at the moment we have an employee who has been in a high government position with 43 violations, who leaves voluntarily and after four or maybe a year he may be back in the state sphere of leadership? In what way will this employee with these violations be punished? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u69	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u70	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Sidorova, honourable Member Minister! The procedure for seeking disciplinary liability by civil servants is regulated in the Law on the Civil Service Officer, clearly defined both the administrative and procedural actions of the formation of the Disciplinary Council, the issuing of an administrative act for the initiation of proceedings, collection and examination of evidence, guaranteeing the right of defence of the opposing party, decision-making and its lensing in due order. The simultaneous interpretation of the provisions of art. 93, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 96, para. 1 of the Law on the Civil Service Officer indicate that especially in cases where the mentioned in art. 90, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the same law punishment, namely a lower rank reduction for a period of six months to one year or dismissal, the order of action is compulsory and as follows: the formation of disciplinary proceedings on the order of the punishing authority; the conduct of proceedings before the Disciplinary Board, during which, if necessary, the employee may be heard and given the opportunity for written explanations; the discussion and possible evidence presented by him; the mandatory hearing and giving of written explanations by the punishing authority and only after that the final punishment. The violation of the rights of defence of the civil servant before the imposition of the most severe disciplinary penalty, if not heard or otherwise written explanations have not been taken, constitutes an infringement of the rules laid down in the Law on the Civil Serviceman for carrying out the individual stages of the procedure for imposing it. In the present case, cited in your question concerning the Director of the Social Assistance Directorate "Society and Social Assistance" Gabrovo, the procedure described above has been followed. After received a signal two checks were carried out at the company Dara 13 In connection with the detected violations, the activity of the company 32, para. 3 of the Social Assistance Act, the Agency has referred to the District Prosecution of Gabrovo, the NRA and the Regional Food Safety Directorate of Gabrovo to carry out specialized checks and take action on competence. The checks have not detected violations or a completed composition of a crime, therefore no follow-up has been taken, but by decree of 1 June 2018. The District Prosecutor's Office of Gabrovo has refused to initiate criminal proceedings. On the basis of the findings of the inspection at the Social Assistance Directorate "Societal Assistance" Gabrovo, a proposal was made for the formation of disciplinary proceedings and the order issued for its launch was given personally to the Head of the Central Management of the Social Assistance Agency on 10 April 2018 at 14:50 p.m. The only day in the period from 9 February to 23 November 2018, Friday on which it was not on statutory leave. After the initiation of the proceedings and a thorough examination of all the documents of the verification, the Board of Appeal has formulated questions for the official to be asked in order to clarify the factual situation, to collect and evaluate the evidence submitted by him and to comply with the administrative procedure. Due to the fact that it was on continuous statutory leave due to temporary incapacity and paid annual leave, in accordance with art. 94, para. 3 of the Law on the Civil Service Officer disciplinary proceedings have been suspended. An application for termination of the service was lodged on 26 October 2018 on the basis of art. 103, para. 1 and 2 of the Civil Service Act. The provision cited gives the civil servant the right to unilaterally terminate his service by submitting a written application to the appointing authority and the same shall be terminated with the expiry of the one-month period beginning on the day of submission of the application. Here is the place to specify that in my capacity as Minister of Labour and Social Policy, I am a body of appointment only to the Executive Director of the Agency. The appointing authority of the Agency shall be its Executive Director and shall therefore, on the basis of art. 105, para. 1 and 2 of the Law on the Civil Service by his command the service of the Director of the Department of Social Assistance (SCI) is terminated with effect from 26 November 2018. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u71	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thanks for the comprehensive answer. It made it clear that, in all likelihood, gaps in legislation and in the rules in charge of civil servants are the reason why a civil servant with a violation can leave without being punished in any way, because within eight months he is in legal, so to speak, sick leave. True, both you and we, as MPs, will initiate a change in the Law on the Civil Service, so as not to repeat this unpleasant case in other places, namely an employee who holds a high government position, to be able to leave this post of his own will, to be able to hide, because, bravely I say, it is a hiding in nine months, and finally just the labor and the employees who have checked his work, to go, so to say, to the wind. Because when you commit 43 violations, and you walk out of here of your own free will, without punishment for that, well, to put it mildly, scandal. I believe that both you and the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and we, as MPs, will initiate amendments to the Law on the Civil Service, in order to prevent such cases from happening further.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u73	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. This concludes the questions to Minister Petkov. Thank you, dear Minister, for participating in the parliamentary control. We are continuing with questions to Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health, who will answer, firstly, a question from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov on the treatment of patients with rare diseases. You have the floor to ask the question, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Following the signing of the Lisbon Treaty, the importance of treating patients with rare diseases was perceived by the Republic of Bulgaria as a serious commitment. Nevertheless, for reasons of a different nature, in recent weeks we have seen many unpleasant problems around patients with rare disease, one of whom has been denied treatment outside the country. I understand now from subsequent reports that you personally made a meeting with the Association of these parents and the question about this patient has been resolved, as has been the case in principle for the treatment of these patients. But my question to you, in connection with our previous discussions, will then develop it: what is your view as the principal of the Strategy for the Treatment of Rare Diseases in Bulgaria, the interaction with the NHIF and the effectiveness of this interaction in your opinion, as availability at the moment, as it is about a problem that is not only social but also very serious financial? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u75	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u76	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, in recent years rare diseases have established themselves as a priority area in our country's healthcare, which is also reflected in the regulatory framework. Regulation No 16 of 2014 of the Minister of Health on the conditions and procedures for the registration of rare diseases and for expert centres and reference networks for rare diseases are regulated the activities for the validation of the list of rare diseases established in our country as well as for the nomination of expert centres for rare diseases. The list of rare diseases is validated by the Minister of Health on a proposal from the Commission on rare diseases. At the end of 2018, a total of 135 diseases were included in the list. At the beginning of 2019, it added the diseases spinal muscular a "type 1, 2 and 3" with which the total number of rare diseases on the list became 138. At this stage, there is no legal regulation whereby diagnostic and medical activities and the provision of medicinal products for patients with rare diseases are carried out in a separate order of those for other diseases. With this in practice diagnostic and medical procedures and medicinal products for patients with rare diseases are within the scope of compulsory health insurance and are reimbursed by the National Health Insurance Fund. In order to ensure the medical care of patients with rare diseases in the regulations of the Minister of Health, which regulate the type and scope of health activities guaranteed by the budget of the NHIF, this is Ordinance No 8 of 2016 and Ordinance No 3 of 2018, included activities in both early diagnosis and treatment and dispensary monitoring of patients with rare diseases, depending on the type of disease, the course of their course and the needs of patients. The Minister of Health on the grounds of art. 45, para. 3 of the Health Insurance Act by Decree No 7 of 2015 regulates the criteria for determining diseases for which home treatment NHIF pays in full or in part medicinal products, medical devices and dietary foods for special medical purposes. Medicinal products that the NHIF pays for home treatment are included in the Positive Drug List under art. 262, para. 6, p. This is Annex No 1 of the Positive Drug List from the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. Under the current regulatory framework, medicinal products intended for chronic diseases leading to severe life-quality disorders or disability requiring continued treatment have a level of payment of 100%. Currently, the list of diseases for home treatment includes 73 rare diseases, with NHIF paying for them. For 2018, the NHIF will pay more than 114 million. 270 thousand. lv. for the treatment of 6113 patients with rare diseases, which accounted for 14% of the total cost of home treatment. In the last five years, the amount paid by the NHIF for diagnoses representing rare diseases has doubled, resulting, on the one hand, from the increasing number of patients resulting from improved diagnostic options, and on the other, from the type of pharmacological therapy. Many of the medicinal products used in the treatment of these diseases are medicines that represent innovative, high-tech achievements in the field of pharmaceuticals and medicine. The submitted facts categorically reflect the significant contribution of the National Health Insurance Fund to ensuring and guaranteeing the access of patients with rare diseases in Bulgaria to free therapy, as well as to innovative medicinal products comparable to international standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u77	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the answer you gave to this question poses a number of serious problems. As a longtime member of the Committee on Rare Diseases, which was structured, as you mentioned earlier, by order of the Minister of Health five years ago, I am seriously dissatisfied not by you, but by the pace at which the gradation of the list of sick and the list of diseases that are included in this list, which is then discussed respectively for part, as you said, or total reimbursement. As a specialist, I am obliged to tell you that the number of rare diseases in the world is about 7,000, so that the figure 135 or 138, respectively, a few days ago, far from running out either the list or the problem. The second major problem, which I think is and which I have reported to everyone before you who is managing the Ministry of Health, is that the establishment of this committee, its main purpose is for the state to develop a strategy for which diseases in Bulgaria to pay partially or completely the treatment. This problem and the lack of its solution created the problem mentioned by the parents of these children for the so-called medical emigration. I can give you very few examples, including in the area where I have worked for more than 30 years, the clinical haematology where the families of such patients were forced to leave the territory of the country, such as the patients with paroxysmal night hemoglobin disease, which is extremely serious and with a life-threatening effect, and its treatment is very financial. In practice, we had six patients in Bulgaria, much less than those mentioned by you and already resolved with your participation the number of patients who were forced to leave the country. This has raised the question and many times I have shared it with you here in the Chamber and in personal meetings that, in my opinion, personally as a professional, the strategy to transfer responsibility for the treatment of these patients, respectively and funding, to the National Health Insurance Fund is deeply incorrect. The National Health Insurance Fund is practically a financial body with opportunities, after an assessment by the Ministry, to make payments in certain fields of clinical medicine. This is an area that is extremely complex because, knowing the manifestations of the patient organizations that we are dealing with to help the treatment of these patients, the pain of these people, as you rightly mentioned, many of these diseases are also chronic, they accompany the lives of man throughout his social life, impose a very serious state vision, not the participation of the NHIF. In this respect, the data you have duly delivered, rather than you, but the Chairman of the Governing Council last year, about the costs, as you said - 14% of the budget for home treatment - show some trends that I have shared with the current Governor of NHIF, which in separate directions of rare diseases are very worrying, as it enables without lack of competence, without lack of state vision, to spend funds that are significant in a way that is far from medically appropriate. In this sense, I call you both for opinion and for action to rethink this strategy. I can give you an example of the Republic of Poland introduced a state strategy a few years ago and under the leadership of the Ministry the treatment of patients with congenital coagulopathy and the level of funds used for them decreased twice within four years. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u79	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Professor Mihailov, we have adopted, of course, long before me, the definition of the order for inclusion of rare diseases in this list with Ordinance No 7 of 2015. There are listed the criteria on the basis of which a disease is determined whether or not to be included in the list of rare diseases. What you mention about strategy can really be considered on this issue, although the strategy will still include some criteria and rules, procedures and so on. That's a possibility. I will share your proposal with my colleagues and if this is really a more effective mechanism, why shouldn't it be adopted? What I want to say is that these diseases, which are really rare in our country, they are indeed many in the world, but then, when such proposals have come into the Ministry of Health, they have always been considered by the relevant committee. We have not missed a single proposal of parents, children or relatives who have asked for the inclusion of a disease in the list of rare diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u81	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Ananiev is from the MP Slavcho Velkov on the actions of the Ministry of Health for the recovery of illegal remuneration. You have the floor, dear Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, welcome to the temple of Bulgarian democracy. I will not develop my question, as is customary. I will just say that I have asked questions several times, including with a written answer from you, and across the street I see expressed reluctance to clarify the data, the facts, the circumstances already claimed, according to the law. From your written reply of 10 January this year, it is not clear what measures you have taken in relation to the unlawful actions of the manager of the Balneological Centre (Balneological Centre), which is why I asked you the previous question. I ask the question again: have the remuneration already been unduly reimbursed by the lady in question? Have you examined the competent authorities for the wrongdoing committed? In a spirit of correctness, I inform you that if you have not done so, I am able to refer to the Chief Prosecutor of the Republic of Bulgaria about this and also the Prime Minister, for which you will receive a copy of my letter to him, as the lady is also chairman of GERB women, in Velingrad. I also note the fact that you did not provide me with the reports I requested from the Ministry of Health and the NSI on the case, and I ask: what are the reasons for this, and I insist that you provide them again? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u84	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Velkov, by letter No 91-00-98 of 12 September 2018 and No 91-00-98 of 4 October 2018 as Minister for the Management of the Rights of the State as sole owner of the capital, I have informed Mrs. Irina Shumarova to take the necessary action to comply with the requirements of the regulations and to restore to the prohibition of art. 34, para. 7 of the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, the amounts it has received as executive director of the Balneological Center "Kamena" EAD as municipal councillor. The remuneration is subject to reimbursement of the company and not of the Ministry of Health. In this sense, the Ministry has requested information from the company, as a result of which it was found that for the protection of the financial interests of the Balneological Center "Kamena" EAD there were two claims made on behalf of the company against Vasil Avramov and Irina Shumarova, former executive directors, for whom there is evidence of undue remuneration in this capacity and at the same time as municipal councilors. On 19 October 2018, the balneological centre "Kamena" EAD filed a claim in the District Court " Pazardzhik," inv. No 8874, against Vasil Avramov, former CEO of the company, in which a commercial case No 298 has been initiated since 2018. On 27 November 2018, the balneological centre No 1000007, in which trade case No 326 of 2018. That is to say, what the company was supposed to do, did so also in relation to the two who did so in the same way "were municipal councilors and, at the same time, the heads of the trading company. We're waiting for the verdict of the court.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u85	Thank you, dear Minister. A line, dear Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I would like to congratulate you on the fact that you have finally given some clarity about what is going on, although in our first view here on the case, you have convinced us that everything is fine in "Kamena" that the chief accountant is almost fired for not doing her job. It turns out that you, as a principal, too, have taken measures and released the lady in question. But there's something else I want to tell you. You mentioned the very first time here: "Yes, but we must also touch someone else there, who you almost referred to as one of our people. I don't care about any Vassil Avramov. I only had a question for you about this governor who freed 33 people who humiliated them, some of them prosecuted against her. I want to tell you something else, dear Minister! It's a violation. Even though I was hard enough, you continued to try to put pressure on me to withdraw the question, you see, because this way, when I download it, the case is dismissed.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u87	Mr. Velkov, we're already entering another area here. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u88	No, I'm not trespassing, I'm in my own territory...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u89	Definitely.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u90	...in his own parliament, Mr. Chairman! And I'm asking you, according to the regulations, not to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u91	Excuse me, but this Parliament is not yours, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u92	The Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u93	Yeah, it's not your own. Let's keep going.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u94	I don't have a dialogue, I make a line. I would like to tell you, dear Minister, that this pressure has been made, including through my colleagues, conversations and so on. I thank Professor Gechev for supporting me in this difficult struggle. I guess you didn't realize what kind of person I was. I will make you a cover of a world famous poet, translated into 42 countries: No! Inappropriate! Change! The MP Velkov is not sold or bought! Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. A hole, dear Minister? You speak in Bulgarian, not in your own parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Velkov, I do not know if you know me, but I have no intention, I have no intention, and I am not such a person to use other colleagues of yours to get to you and to make you give up these questions that you constantly ask, nor do I want to buy you. I don't need to buy you. I wanted to answer you honestly and honestly. Under Bulgarian law, the lady was released, everything was done to bring the relevant case to court. We are waiting for the outcome of the court and any further action that will take place. All this time I have performed my duties under the Bulgarian legislation and have no intention of making any games related to your behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u97	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. The next question is to Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science, who will answer a question from the National Representative Ivo Hristov on accreditation of the higher schools in the Republic of Bulgaria. You have the floor, Professor Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u98	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Minister, the current legal regulation and practical application of the Higher Education Act in its section on accreditation of higher schools shows the ultimate inefficiency of the accreditation process. In this regard is also my question: Will the Ministry take a legislative change, what exactly and what principles, and is the unification of the institutional and programme accreditation of the Bulgarian higher schools which are unwarrantedly separated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u99	Thank you, dear Professor Hristov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u100	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, thank you for the question. Accreditation is one of the problematic subsystems in the higher education system. On the other hand, we rely on the accreditation assessment to show where education is quality and where there are the best prerequisites for quality education. The accreditation is a preliminary assessment of the adequacy of the internal systems and of the resources of the higher school to provide quality education. It is carried out mainly by academics, organized through the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency, which is independent from the Minister of Education. It is administrative to the Council of Ministers, such is the requirement for accreditation assessments. The Agency shall work both in accordance with the provisions of the Higher Education Act and in compliance with the general accreditation rules that bring together the European Quality Assessment Agency and also on a number of documents that it itself adopts. For example, the burden of individual indicators is a matter of internal rules within the Agency itself, which the Accreditation Board adopts. We have a problem with accreditation in a few perspectives. First of all, it does not give us enough distinction.. does not tell us enough of the education in which university is good, in which is not so good and there are such good prerequisites for quality training. We have a systematic, lasting, sustainable devaluation of the accreditation assessment. If the scale was then five years ago, the average accreditation score was 82% of the maximum, six years ago it was 88% of the maximum, today it is 92% of the maximum, that is to say we have a sustainable inflation trend. The other, as I told you, does not give us enough distinction. You can see a number of professional directions in which accreditation assessments are close to each other. In one professional direction, five universities are within one tenth, which on the ten-stage scale is 1% difference. And we, on the other hand, do not have another reliable institutionalized assessment of the educational activity and the prerequisites for carrying out quality training to be used in our comprehensive quality assessment and in accordance with the needs of the labour market. We also need such an assessment when planning the reception, as we are trying to conduct a policy for restructuring the admission of higher schools to those with a higher rating. The problem is addressed in the Higher Education Development Strategy, but it has also been put in the context of the work under the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Higher Education Act, which we are largely ready to propose at the beginning of next month. Among other things, back to that, accreditation is expensive. Dearest mostly from time and effort, that is, a lot of hard work, little result, inefficiencies. Big papers are being filled out. A few things have to change. Some of the things can be changed by the Law, another part must be changed by the documents which the Accreditation Board itself accepts. However, the Law does not imply such a degree of detail. Programme accreditation must be carried out at the same time in order to have comparability. This is one of the things provided for in the Law. The other is to clearly outline the main indicators that will be assessed. These are mostly indicators for academic staff and material base. We also foresee that this is in view of the fragmentation of the system, to propose a provision for a lecturer to be considered as the accreditation of a higher school, as this duplication leads to taking account of academic staff in more higher schools. Another problem with accreditation. It is independent from the Ministry of Education, but is not so independent from the higher schools themselves because it is done mainly by academics. We do not have, so to speak, professional educational auditors or professional educational assessors in permanent committees and in the committees that carry out the accreditation, to have at least one, that is, we will take one step towards professionalising the accreditation assessment. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] If you'll allow me to finish. We also plan to ease programme accreditation to be subsequent institutional accreditation or assessment by institutional accreditation to be weighted by the assessments of programme accreditations and to save efforts and to make the assessment of professional accreditation to a greater extent based on objective indicators for which accurate, complete and verifiable information is available. Of course, we can't do without the so-called site review and the evaluation of other resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u101	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Professor Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u102	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Thank you for your answer as always, competent and knowledge of matter. With this accreditation procedure, we're a little bit like in the famous anecdote that the result is still the same, except the paperwork is increasing. Firstly, we have, as you yourself pointed out in your reply, almost ninety-more percent of a double between institutional and programme accreditation, which negates one or the other, or rather duplicates the same functions and costs. Secondly, we have some internally indistinct contradictions in the current design of the accreditation process, which is that interested people from higher schools value their competitors and colleagues, which can be either transposed in an unjustified positive way, or negatively, precisely because of competition. Thirdly, I think that the whole philosophy and design of the accreditation process should be reconsidered at all, because at the moment, as you have pointed out, the extrapolation trend may be, if we continue, excellent assessments will exceed 100% in the coming periods if we do not take measures. Obviously, we have a serious problem with accreditation. It is obvious that if we look at the formal indicators of the accreditation process, Bulgarian higher schools bloom and bind and actually the first Bulgarian school is in the top 500 and the top 1000 of the higher schools in the world, if I am not mistaken, somewhere in eight hundredth place. We have a serious problem with the quality of higher education, which was reported by both consumers and businesses and Bulgarian citizens. That's obvious. This is an important, albeit private problem related to the overall quality of Bulgarian higher education. Perhaps the existence and necessity of many radical reforms is there, as the time of slow and gradual reforms has passed. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-18.u103	Thank you, dear Professor Hristov. That concludes parliamentary control today. Thank you, dear Minister, for participating in the parliamentary control. Honourable Members, next regular plenary session is on 23 January 2019 at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
