ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will present to your attention the Project for a Work Programme of the National Assembly 27 February 2019: "1." Draft Decision amending the National Assembly Decision of 19 September 2017 concerning the debates on the asking of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for the establishment of order in the land relations (GW, SG) 77, 2017), as amended by decision of the National Assembly of 12 October 2018. (DV, No. 85 from 2018). The national representative Irena Dimova and a group of MPs were introduced on 21 February 2019. 2. Projects of decisions on changes to Standing Committees. People's representatives Iskren Veselinov, Valentin Kasabov, Georgi Kolev and Hristian Mitev are involved on 21 February 2019 and the national representative Polina Tsankova on 22 February 2019. 3. Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2017. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2018. 4. Hearing of the Minister of Economy on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on Investments and Perspectives for Economic Growth of the Bulgarian Economy. The representatives of the National Assembly are Daniela Saveklieva and Delyan Dobrev on 22 February 2019. 5. Annual Activity Report of the Personal Data Protection Commission for 2018. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 28 January 2019. Point 1 for Thursday, 28 February 2019 6. Second vote on the Agricultural Counting Bill in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 31 January 2019. He was adopted on the first vote on 13 February 2019. Point 2 for Thursday, 28 February 2019 7. Draft decisions on amendment and supplement of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly Importer is the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 23 November 2018; National Representative Danail Kirilov on 4 December 2018; National Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 12 December 2018; National Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 12 December 2018; National Representatives Hristian Mitev and Valeri Simeonov on 25 February 2019. Point 3 for Thursday 28 February 2019 8. Draft Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs 2019. The Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds is a contributor for the fourth for Thursday, 28 February 2019. 9. Hearing of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the progress in the construction of highways and roads in Bulgaria. The representatives of the National Assembly are Alexander Nenkov, Atanas Tashkov and Georgi Dinev on 22 February 2019. Point 5 for Thursday, 28 February 2019 10. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement for review of multi-level governance between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 18 February 2019. Point 1 for Friday, 1 March 2019 11. Hearing of the Minister of Health on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the introduction of the system for verification of medicinal products in Bulgaria as required by Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/161 supplementing Directive 2001/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council by laying down detailed rules on safety performance on the packaging of medicinal products for human use. Importer is the national representative Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 21 February 2019. Point 2 for Friday 1 March 2019 12. Parliamentary control. Please, voting mode. Vote 137 MPs: 119, against 16, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Bills and draft Decisions 20 "February 26, 2019: Draft decision to fill the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Importer is the People's Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. Draft Decision amending the National Assembly Decision of 19 September 2017 concerning the debates on the questioning of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for establishing order in the land relations, as amended by the National Assembly Decision of 12 October 2018. It is allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Bill amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The lead committee is the Committee on Budget and Finance. It is allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Commission on interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints. Importer is the national representative Polina Tsankova. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Commission on Religions and Human Rights. Importer is the national representative Polina Tsankova. Draft Decision amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The importer is the national representative Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Bill amending and supplementing the Black Sea Coast Construction Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management and the Committee on Environment and Water. Bill amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act. Importer is the national representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. There's a distribution coming up. Draft Decision amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Importer is the national representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Messages: On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I inform the Members of the National Assembly that on 25 February 2019 a Decree No 35 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria was received under art. 101 of the Constitution by which the Law amending and supplementing the Election Code was adopted by the National Assembly on 14 February 2019 is returned for a new discussion. It is entrusted to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs to report to the MPs the President's statement and the reasons for it. On 25 February 2019, the National Assembly received a copy of Decision No 2 of 21 February 2019 of the Constitutional Court in Constitutional Case No 2/2018 and its particular opinion. By the decision the Constitutional Court shall rule at the request of the Supreme Court of Cassation and declare the provisions of art. 230, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 230, para. 2 in the part other than the cases under para. 1" by the Law on the Judiciary, respectively promulgated in the Official Journal. Colleagues, we are moving to the first item of today's agenda: PROJECT OF THE DECISION TO CHANGE THE DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING OF 19 SEPTEMBER 2017 WITH REGARD TO THE DISCLOSURES OF THE PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES OF THE WORLDS OF DESTRUCTION AND GEORGIA GYOKOV TO THE MINISTER OF EARTH, FOOD AND GREEN REPRESENTATIONS ON THE POLICY OF THE MINISTRY OF EARTH, FOOD AND GORGEES TO ESTABLISH A RETRODUCTION IN THE CONNECTIONS CHANGED BY DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTION OF 12 OCTOBER 2018 The report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food will introduce us to Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! May I have your attention, please? ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Decision amending the National Assembly Decision of 19 September 2017 concerning the debates on the questions of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for the establishment of order in the land relations (GB, SG No. 77, 2017), as amended by decision of the National Assembly of 12 October 2018. (DV, No. 85 from 2018), No 954-02-6, submitted on 21 February 2019 by the National Representative Irena Dimova and a group of MPs The Committee on Agriculture and Food held an extraordinary meeting on 26 February 2019 discussing the draft decision cited. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests: Mrs. Vergina Krasteva Deputy Minister, Mr. Petar Vutov Director of the Directorate of Regional Relations and Comassation and Ms. Lilia Stoyanova Head of Department in the same Directorate, and Mrs. Diana Fileva Chief Legal Consult at the Directorate of Legal and Branch Organizations. The project and the reasons for it were presented by the MP Desislava Taneva. The draft decision was submitted in connection with an approved by the Council of Ministers and submitted to the National Assembly a report to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. The report is on a decision of the National Assembly of 19 September 2017, as amended by Decision of 12 October 2018. 1 of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry was entrusted by 31 December 2017 to submit to the National Assembly a report, including an analysis of the regulatory regulation of public relations in land use, use, conservation and management of agricultural land and a strategy for land ownership management and development. The analysis and strategy have been submitted within the specified deadline. In the solution like t. 2 is provided for within 10 months of the adoption of the Report under point 1. 1, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry to prepare and after the necessary public discussion to submit a draft legislation governing land-use relations related to the ownership, use, conservation and management of agricultural land in Bulgaria. Accordingly, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry presented at a Commission meeting held on 10 October 2018, a draft law on land relations and the conservation of agricultural land. Following the discussion, the initially set deadline was extended until 28 February 2019 by a decision of the National Assembly. The purpose of the extension was to extend the scope of the Bill by regulating all matters related to ownership of agricultural land, rent-based relations and the conservation of agricultural property, thereby proposing an organised and consistent arrangement of land relations in the country. In this regard, the bill was revised by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, published for public consultation and sent for inter-agency coordination. In the context of the public consultation procedure, a large number of conflicting opinions were received on it from both branch organizations and citizens. The main remarks are related to texts reproduced in the Draft Law in the current regulations, which are mainly by the Agricultural Land Land Land Land Land Land Land Land Land Law, Property Law, Debts and Contracts Act and Agricultural Land Conservation Act. In the light of the above in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, a working meeting with the branch organizations was held, at which the Bulgarian Association of Agricultural Land Owners has proposed that the decision of the National Assembly be fully repealed, within which as a deadline for the submission of the Bill to the Council of Ministers was set February 28th. From the Association of Farmers in Bulgaria and from the National Association of Grain Producers have proposed to establish a working group with the participation of all interested parties to discuss land relations in the country, and in the context of a wide public debate to prepare a single regulatory act adequate to modern socio-economic conditions. In this regard, they have insisted that it be proposed to the National Assembly that the deadline of 28 February 2019 be extended by at least six months. During the meeting the representatives of the branch organizations again presented their arguments for extending the deadline for drafting and presenting the bill. The Bulgarian Association of Agricultural Land Owners recalled that the bill concerns constitutionally established and protected rights of citizens, as is the right of ownership, which is inviolable. Therefore, in their opinion, it is unproductive to set time limits for regulating all matter. People's representative Petar Petrov noted that the new deadline will not be enough for the development of the bill and suggested that the vote on the decision be postponed until the return of the MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP to Bulgaria. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms group expressed their belief that a consensus between all stakeholders is impossible given the mutually exclusive interests and the different opportunities of individual entities. According to them, the development of the project should be sought in addition to a balance, to achieve fair regulation of ownership relations and the use of agricultural land. They also noted that when developing the Bill it is important to lay down the overall concept of the state of what agriculture should be developed in our country. Following the debates held and the votes held, the Committee on Agriculture and Food with 11 votes...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 77, 2017), as amended by decision of the National Assembly of 12 October 2018. (DV, No. 85 from 2018), No 954-02-6, submitted on 21 February 2019 by the National Representative Irena Dimova and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Which of the importers will present the draft decision? Here you go, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u4	A draft decision and then there'll be a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u5	Yes, but let's hear the draft decision and the motives. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Project! DECISION amending Decision of the National Assembly of 19 September 2017 concerning the debates on the questions of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for establishing order in the land relations (GW, No. 77, 2017), as amended by decision of the National Assembly of 12 October 2018. (DV, No. 85 from 2018) The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED In the decision of the National Assembly of 19 September 2017 concerning the debates on the asking of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for establishing order in the land relations (GW, No. 77, 2017), as amended by decision of the National Assembly of 12 October 2018. (DV, No. 85 from 2018), in point II, the words
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. We will proceed to the debate. You asked for the floor and I am opening the debate with you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u8	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With the present, I would like to draw your attention to some facts that have led to the drafting of a draft single legislative act which will regulate the overall land relations in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as to the details relating to the circumstances that require the extension of the period in which to be fully revised, presented in final and anticipated form in the Council of Ministers and subsequently, as you know, in the National Assembly. In connection with a debate on the questioning, No 754-05-33, from 13 July 2017 of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozanov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests to establish order in the land relations with the National Assembly Decision of 19 September 2017 was entrusted to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry by 31 December 2017 to submit to the National Assembly a report to include an analysis of the regulatory regulation of public relations in land use, as well as a strategy for the management and development of land ownership in Bulgaria. According to this decision, within 10 months of the adoption of the Report and after the necessary public consultation, the Minister should submit to the National Assembly a draft of a single legislation governing public relations in land use, ownership, use, conservation and management of agricultural land in Bulgaria. The aim was to ensure the protection of agricultural land as national wealth and to establish a basis for sustainable agriculture development, to propose an organised and consistent framework of land relations, as well as to overcome the shortcomings and fragmentation of this regulation, to give a comprehensive enough and optimal regulation, in line with the current needs of public relations in the country. The analysis and strategy were submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria on 28 December 2017. In connection with the implementation of this decision of the National Assembly of 19 September 2017, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry has drawn up a Draft Law on Land Relations and the Conservation of Agricultural Land, which was published for public consultation on the Ministry's website and on the Public Consultation Portal on 27 August 2018, with a deadline for expressing opinions until 26 September 2018. The project was also sent for interdepartmental coordination within the statutory deadline. The Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land, with the exception of the part concerning the restoration of ownership, the Law on the Protection of Agricultural Land, the Rules for their implementation and the individual regulations thereto, are united in the project under public consultation. From the interdepartmental coordination of the project have received opinions from the departments of the Council of Ministers "Economic and social policy" and "Legal policy" from the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance and others, which found a violation of the Law on Legislative Acts. Notes have been made in the opinions that the Bill includes a number of provisions which do not have the nature and content of a permanent regulation to be incorporated into legal provisions, such as the signature of administrative procedures, tender procedures and others, which should be specified in a sub-legal regulation, such as the Rules implementing the law or the relevant regulations, as regulations regulate the more dynamic matter of public relations than legal relations, are subject to a more frequent change and annulment that should not affect legal provisions. In addition, the opinions also state that the bill is contrary to the requirements of art. 10 of the Law on Regulatory Acts, under which public relations from the same area are governed by one and not by several legislative acts of the same degree, but by public relations belonging to an area for which a regulatory act is issued, as in this case is the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land and the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land, shall be governed by its supplement or amendment, and not by a separate act of the same degree. As a result of the public consultation conducted and in accordance with the adopted opinions of inter-agency coordination, the bill has been revised by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. At the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, the draft was subsequently presented in detail at the Commission meeting on 10 October 2018. In the course of the discussion on the main provisions of the Law, the people's notions reported the large volume of work done, but found that the scope of the submitted bill was significantly different from the scope set out in the National Assembly Decision of 19 September 2017. It was stressed that there were no texts to regulate ownership of agricultural land as a means of acquisition, disposal and management, and especially in view of the criminal procedure against our country relating to the right of foreigners to acquire ownership of agricultural land. In this regard, the European Commission's limits on acquisition should also be found in the Project. Colleagues also stressed that the Bill should regulate all forms of land relations, including rent. In addition, we were all unanimous that the rules relating to the conservation of agricultural property should also be updated, given the completely changed model of public relations and the inability to apply existing norms. In this regard, in the course of the meeting on 10 October, all MPs agreed on the opinion to extend the period in which the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry should present the draft single legislative act in line with the comments made by the Members of the National Assembly. Accordingly, a draft decision was proposed by which the National Assembly Decision of 19 September 2017 was amended, providing that after the necessary public consultation the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry should submit to the Council a draft single legislation governing public relations in land use, use, conservation and management of agricultural land in Bulgaria by 28 February 2019. This decision was voted in plenary on 12 October 2018. In the implementation of this decision of the National Assembly, the Bill has been revised again by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, including new texts regarding the ownership of agricultural land, with the majority of the texts in force in the Agricultural Land Act, as well as new texts relating to the conservation of agricultural property which regulate relations in a manner consistent with the current socio-economic conditions. The draft law on ownership, land relations and the conservation of agricultural land was published for public consultation on 17 December 2018 with a date of completion of the procedure 16 January 2019 and was sent for intergovernmental coordination under art. 32 of the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers and its administration. A large number of conflicting opinions from citizens and a number of branch organizations have been received in the public consultation procedure, again concerning mainly texts of the current legislation. The main negative remarks are related to the existing texts of the Agricultural Rendation Act, the Property and Use Act, the Property Act, the Debts and Contracts Act and the Agricultural Land Conservation Act, which are reproduced in the Law. On 25 January 2019 a working meeting was held at the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry with representatives of the Bulgarian Association of Agricultural Land Owners, the Association of Farmers in Bulgaria and the National Association of Grain Producers, which are one of the largest representative industry organizations in the sector. At the meeting, everyone united around the opinion that since the Bill concerns a wide range of public relations, a wider public debate should take place within a longer period of time so that all the proposals and proposed texts can be refined. That is why the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry has submitted to the National Assembly a Report submitted to the Council of Ministers by letter No 03-123 of 11 February 2019, which has been examined and approved at an operational meeting of the Council of Ministers on 13 February 2019. In this report, the above mentioned circumstances have already been set out, which is why the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry proposes to extend the deadline for submitting the bill to the Council of Ministers. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, in relation to the wider circle of public relations to be settled, I propose to support the adoption of a Decision extending the deadline for submitting the bill to the Council of Ministers until 31 December 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Ladies and gentlemen, are there any lines to the speech? After the presentation, we have moved on to discussions on the report. This was a statement from one of the importers of the Decision Project. The procedure provides for the possibility of lines. Are there any lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Rykoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u10	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to supplement the colleague who briefed us on the development of a draft single legislative act to regulate land relations in the Republic of Bulgaria by making a little more clear on the views expressed by some of the largest representative industry organisations in the field of agriculture during the working meeting organised by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry on 25 January 2019. At that meeting, all participants expressed the view that the drafting of a legislative act of this rank concerned many and serious public relations. Its development must seek a balance between the interests of all owners and users of agricultural land, whether small or large. In this regard, the Bulgarian Association of Owners of Agricultural Land even proposed that the decision of the National Assembly be repealed, in which February 28th is defined as a deadline for submitting the bill to the Council of Ministers. The Association of Farmers in Bulgaria and the National Association of Grain Producers were unanimous that a new working group should be formed with the participation of experts and representatives of the industry, to be granted a long enough period to discuss existing land relations in the context of an even wider public debate, as well as to prepare a new draft law with the participation of all interested parties, a bill that is adequate to modern social and economic conditions in the country. The participants in the meeting have united around the idea of proposing to the National Assembly to change the deadline 28 February 2019 and the same will be extended by at least six months. As a result of this meeting, the Minister proposed in his report that the competent parliamentary committee be acquainted with the opinions and comments of the public consultation carried out and by the interdepartmental coordination of the draft law on ownership, land relations and the conservation of agricultural land, offering to extend the time limit for new public consultation and drafting of a new bill. In this regard, colleagues, and in view of the need to seek a balance of interests of citizens, owners and users of agricultural land, as well as industry organisations in the sector, I call on you to support proposals Draft decision to extend the deadline until 31 December 2019 for the establishment and presentation of a single legislation governing land relations in the Republic of Bulgaria to the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u11	Thank you, Mr. Rykoff. Are there any lines to Mr. Rykov's statement, who is one of the importers of the Project Decision? I don't see any line requests. To speak, Mr. Petrov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman of the sitting, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I believe that this decision, which we are currently discussing, is extremely important for our work as a National Assembly. It is extremely important for the functioning of the Bulgarian economy, so I take the floor. Mr. Chairman, first of all, I would like to suggest that you replace all the words "Bransch organisations" or "Bransch organization" with only "organization" or "organizations" because there are no branch organizations in Bulgaria. There are associations that have put in their name [[Reply from DPS.]] There is no such thing and I propose that these words should be replaced because in Bulgaria there is no Law on Branch Organizations and there is no procedure to form branch organizations, and they are all associations under the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities. I say this as a clarification because it is speculated that you see, here two three associations have gathered and they said that there was something: Give, we are branch organizations, to cancel the decision you made before. I want to inform you that I am following this process, as it is very important. I've worked for many years in this system, and I know what this is about. I want to tell you that the adoption of this law should have happened ten years ago, and then many of the failures that we have in our agriculture would have been avoided, and most of all the demographic consequences that result from these failures. In Bulgaria, we have practically an insane situation in terms of land ownership, in terms of its management, in terms of its use, because we are the unique state throughout Eastern Europe, which did not make the transition from public property to private, as did the other Eastern European countries. As a country we made a huge mistake, starting to do what has gone on in Mexico for 35 years without success, and to this day we know that there are such uprisings of people who are not satisfied with the reform made in the same way as in Bulgaria the distribution of small pieces of land to the population, respectively its opposition. I would like to congratulate the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry, which has worked very hard to draw up the Law. In its previous composition, this committee worked very hard and hard with the former Ministry of Agriculture and Food and at the end of 2016. "Now pay attention to the dates and the years that I will tell you " in 2016 a Land Code Project was drawn up, which was to cover absolutely everything that we are now offered that should continue to be considered until the end of 2019. I told you that at the end of 2016 all this was done, was given to expert groups who took care of it and developed this code very well. The new composition of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food decided not to continue the work of the former Ministry of Agriculture and Food, but to start working in a piece, resulting in this decision on 19 September 2017. I was in this room to enable the Ministry to have one year of time, imagine, so that it could do what was already done at the end of 2016. Absurd! This was absurd, and I then said from this tribune that this period is absurd and that this revision of the 2016 Code, respectively, of the newly made proposals and developments, requires no more than two or three months. In any case, the National Assembly adopted a decision and at the end of September, early October, we realized that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food did absolutely nothing in 2018. Imagine, it refers to its later documents, which I saw, to the President of the Committee on Agriculture. The chairman of the Committee on Agriculture had tabled new proposals. These are not new proposals. Yes, you are! I was at this meeting and the whole Commission decided on this. It was, not the President of the Commission, that he wanted something like this at the last minute! Then the Commission gave four months to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to do its job and it did it in early January.. on 8 January Prime Minister Boyko Borisov submitted a document to be dealt with. This document said that everything that was necessary was done. All the changes, including the Law of 45 years, honourable colleagues... In Bulgaria at the moment the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Property has been since 1974. This law absolutely hinders the development of our agriculture. It continues to fly in the abyss. It is a waste to me that there are already about 500 villages deleted from the map of Bulgaria and there will be more. I think there's 700 more with two or three people. It's just that the current legislative system is leading us on. And now that we are confident at the beginning of January by the Prime Minister that everything is there yesterday, by urgency they say: well, let's increase the deadline by one year, because what Boyko Borisov told you is not true. [[(Noise and lines: ……]] That's how you came out yesterday. I listened and could not believe my ears that the Prime Minister had deceived us on 8 January and that we should now extend the deadline by one year. I would like to tell you that once this proposal has been tabled, it will be voted on. However, I must warn you that this will have serious consequences for us, especially the people of the ruling coalition. We have no way of explaining these problems to farmers yesterday, we were dealing with property issues, rents, rents and so on. We have nothing to explain to people, they'll be back tomorrow. With this vote for a year of extension, I can tell you that the deadline of 31 December 2019 will not be respected. Somewhere around 18 December this year we will be asked for a new extension due to other circumstances, because there is no political will in our larger partner GERB to solve this extremely important issue. It affects the whole of Bulgaria! I am very pleased with a representative of the opposition, whom I had the opportunity to listen to in 2007 in Burgas. At the time he was a deputy minister who said that what we are now rejecting is the small constitution of land relations in Bulgaria. Note that countries with three-four times smaller territory than Bulgaria produce five-six times more agricultural production than we do. We're laughing in Europe! People are laughing at us! And now we accept the decision of a ministry, which has not done its task for 15 months, of some associations, I repeat, these are not branch organizations, these are some associations that have gathered together and said: well, we want to increase by one year because it is not profitable for us. I would like to assure the MPs of GERB and Mr. Mr. "Our colleague Emil Dimitrov," who has now turned his back on me that it is very important to take this law seriously, even though we have accepted it until December 31st. Let us think again as the National Assembly an hour rather to adopt this Land Code, because I say again, and I am very pleased with this wording that we are actually delaying the adoption of the small constitution, which should settle the relations in Bulgaria between the owners, among those who process the land of municipalities, of property. It can't evolve right now. I meet farmers who destroy a little bit of 40, 50 cows each, destroy their herds because they cannot take this land that they are forbidden to take by law from the time of socialism. Privates are forbidden to take municipal property! They have no right to take it, they have no right to buy it! And they're shutting down their business. I would like to tell you that the endless postponement of this law is the way towards further destruction of small and medium-sized farmers. This is a path further to the enlargement of the agricultural octopuses, which were created in Bulgaria, and to the going of a monocultural production, not typical for Bulgaria. It is shameful for Bulgaria to produce wheat and barley. It's embarrassing! People, when they see us, they laugh at these incompetents who, on land where they have to produce fruits, vegetables, to have modern greenhouse farming, on this land, these fools to grow wheat and barley?! I ask you very much that I do not have the opportunity to influence the majority, because, as I say to you, my colleague continues to look back, does not care, and our group also does not have much interest, but I am paying attention to the committees that what we are doing right now is against the interests of the Bulgarian farmers, against the interests of the ruling coalition! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u13	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. [[The National Representative Peter Petrov speaks away from the microphones.]] Mr. Petrov, you made an offer. On the microphone, please, so everyone can hear what we're setting out. I carefully followed the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u14	In the text, where there are "branch organizations" there should be only "organizations" because there are no branch organizations. There's no such thing! There are non-governmental organizations that have put in their name the Braun organizations. There's no such thing!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u15	We are discussing a proposal for a project for a decision that does not meet the concept of a Bransch organization.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u16	The report also included "Bransch organisations."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u17	We're not changing the report now, and we're not editing it. That's what I wanted to clear up.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u18	Thank you. If you've really seen that there are no Brauns in the Decision...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u19	There's no such word in the Decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u20	Okay. I withdraw my offer. However, I would like to stress again: there are no branch organizations in Bulgaria!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u21	Thank you, we understand your idea. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov. Increase the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u22	I was very quick to even give Mr. Petrov the opportunity to develop the thesis. Because I had my back and I couldn't hear it until recently, you know that we didn't have agriculture, but we had 17 BZNS, which fought to give a better strategy for the development of the farm. Now it turns out that we're going to bring order and I'm under the impression that it's never existed before. But if we really need to introduce him, to give him the opportunity to mention me, I give him three minutes to develop his thesis and convince us of those he has so that we can support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u23	Thank you. Is there a second line? I won't. For the doppelganger? After the extension, there's a possibility. Mr. Petrov won't take the right to the back. There was another statement request. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! My speech is that the drafting of a piece of legislation to justify land relations in our country should cover all stakeholders. I would like to introduce you to the opinion expressed by the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. After a consultation of the municipalities in which they were acquainted with the draft Law presented for public consultation, the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria expressed its concern regarding the changes in the Law on Property, Land Relations and the conservation of the agricultural land proposed for re-coordination of the portal of public consultations. According to them, the further-to-work bill is moving away from the initially set goals, modernization of land relations, namely to introduce an arrangement to overcome the shortcomings of the current regulation by systematizing matter and introducing new norms that reflect the current public-economic situation in the country. They provided their principal comments and proposals on the texts of the Bill, namely on the relations of the so-called......................................... According to the National Association of Municipalities regarding municipal property, the bill deviates from the requirements of art. 140 of the Constitution does not take into account that municipal property is autonomous and limits the municipalities without justification in the exercise of their right to ownership of agricultural land by the Article 140 of the Constitution requires the municipality to exercise its right of ownership in the interest of the territorial community. The Constitution considers the municipality to be a single socio-economic unit in which local self-government takes place. A unified approach by the municipal council and the mayor of the municipality to the exercise of the right of municipal property, including on agricultural land, is confirmed, in line with the common interest of the municipality as a territorial community. In this regard, according to the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, a particularly unacceptable step are the additions to the residual land fund. Instead of the legal order for these lands is once again bet on a force regime imposed by foreign administrative bodies, according to art. 124, para. 6 and § 24 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill. The Association of Municipalities insists on the annulment of the Law and with the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft Law this has never been done, those provisions of the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land which restrict the right of the municipalities to dispose of the land under art. 19 of him. According to them, it is unconstitutional to revoke the rights of municipal councils, as quoted above. The local authorities continue to insist that the land of the so-called residual fund will be used for the implementation of projects for the promotion of agricultural land, as well as for the implementation of objects of technical infrastructure within the meaning of the Construction Act on the territory and other sites for which forced alienation is permitted, for investments under the Investment Promotion Act, for the creation of new or extension of the boundaries of existing urbanised territories, for the realization of investment projects related to the socio-economic development of municipalities. According to the local authorities, the above-mentioned restrictions on the disposal of the land of the "Statute Fund' and the indecisiveness to solve the problems with it lead to immeasurable losses for local communities...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In their opinions, they state that in the past almost 30 years since the entry into force of the Property and Use of Agricultural Land Act, the former owners and their successors have died and the new heirs cannot determine the location and real boundaries of the property. The compensation in the rare cases of a given decision on the recognition of property rights may remain with equivalent lands or composite instruments. Another issue raised by local authorities is the resolution of cases related to undistributed property of deleted businesses. They express principled support for the inclusion of procedures for the temporary clarification and actuarial of ownership of the undistributed property of the deleted business organisations of TZS, DZS and, therefore, in order to end the existing idleness and the possibility to transfer such property to the local authorities and to be used for the purposes of local development. The Association of Municipalities shall pay attention to art. 238 and § 12, para. 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill, which provide for the transfer of municipalities of ownership rights to unallocated buildings and facilities from the assets of the terminated organisations, but not to the land on which they are built and belong. The municipalities also have an interest in the transfer of land because it alone could benefit the territorial community from the transfer of ownership of buildings. Most of the existing buildings are half-destroyed and municipalities cannot allocate resources to curb the attacks on them. In this regard, the local authorities consider the moratorium to be unfounded for the disposal of these properties by the municipalities, also laid down in the Transitional and Final Provisions. Another crucial point concerning municipalities is the compliance of the Bill with the Law on Municipal Property. According to them, it should be regarded as a special law relating to the Law on Municipal Property, which contains the special rules for acquisition, exercise and disposal of the right of ownership of the municipality in respect of agricultural land. This makes it unnecessary to refer to the Law on Municipal Property, especially if the provisions are duplicated, for example, art. 124, para. 2 and para. Article 3; Article 128; 131, para. Article 2 (1) (a) Article 168; 198 and others. They also believe that art. 65 creates a principled problem affecting municipal property on agricultural land. According to this provision, agricultural land is used by owners and users on the basis of acts registered in the Municipal Agriculture Office. In other words, in order to benefit from the municipality's own agricultural land, it must register with the Municipal Agriculture Office the act by which it acquired its right to property. The National Association of Municipalities considers that the text should be brought into line with its objective. The participation in the agricultural land use arrays may only have a person who registered the act on the basis of which he acquired the right to harvest from the agricultural land. Apart from that, in art. 3, para. 4 of the Bill the governor is designated as a body for the conservation of agricultural property and as such has the right under art. 371, para. 1, t. 2 establish the right to cross land from the municipal land fund in the absence of consent between the owners concerned. This, according to the local authorities, is a hypothesis of an unacceptable partial alienation of municipal property on agricultural land in favour of a private person, where the municipality represented by the mayor and the owner of the property have not agreed to establish the right of passage by contract. The Association of Municipalities expresses its support for updating the regulations regarding the conservation of agricultural property. The provisions thus described correspond to the usual practice imposed in the country against the backdrop of the total non-appliance of the Agricultural Property Conservation Act, suggesting that the authorities of the Ministry of Interior should also be included in the implementation of the provisions on the conservation of agricultural property and the establishment of damage. In its opinion, the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria supports the improvement of the procedure for the distribution of pastures, meres and meadows in the direction of a coherent distribution of property from the municipal and state funds in the respective lands, proposing to consider keeping the current practice the rental price to be determined on the basis of the average annual return payment for the respective land for the previous year, without requiring the award of a market valuation by an independent valuer. Supports the procedure for replacing state-owned agricultural land with municipal agricultural land in cases related to the implementation of projects for the socio-economic development of the municipality and/or necessary for the sustainable satisfaction of local public needs in accordance with the State Property Act and the Municipal Property Act; With regard to all these and other proposals for further comments, clarification of texts and specific provisions, I call on you, Members, to support the proposal for an extension of the deadline for drafting a single legislative act, its broad public discussion and its presentation in the Council of Ministers in a form which will give complete and unambiguous decisions in the regulation of land relations within the territory of Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u25	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. Are there any lines? I don't see any requests. Any other speeches? Here you are, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u26	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am in a hurry to announce that we will support the extension of this bill, not for anything else, but to prevent any chaos in the land relations from the creation of a law that will bring even greater chaos. So it is better to apply the current legislation, which is liked and preferred by many of the branch organizations, than to create some little brat from which to then pick trouble. I've listened to all my colleagues, who told the history of the Bill very well, the latter very well presented the opinion of the Association of Municipalities. This bill has a long and glorious history. I can definitely say that it is not good, because the saga with this law is at least four or five years old, from the years in which Ms. Taneva was a minister. Then they had proposed under the loud name "Codex" to solve the problems of land relations in the country. Long discussions followed, a thorough study of the world, the European experience, which was spent a lot of money on which the next minister handed over the materials to the prosecutor's office, by the way, but hence there is still no response to whether there is a crime or not when spending this money to study the world experience. After all, after long studies of ours and the world experience we are again at a dead end, again we want the extension of this bill. After the minister of service Hristo Bosukov handed over the materials to the prosecutor's office and closed the work on the bill, the next minister, the minister in charge, nothing personal, I simply quote: The bod still goes on because the style we've chosen to work on this project is wrong. Mistaken because we have left everything in the hands of industry organizations with the idea that they find a consensus version of the bill. Once again, I will quote: The call will be seen only if there is full consensus with the industry................................................................................................ Dear colleagues, there has been no such consensus and there will be no such consensus. There can be no full consensus when participants in the process are diametrically different positions. There can be no consensus when small and large owners are involved in the game. There can be no consensus when small and super-large users are involved in the game. There can be no consensus when one is large grain producers, and on the other side are small vegetable producers, orchard producers, organic producers. We want to gather, as my colleague said just now, fire and water. It is an illusion to find complete balance in the interests of this so complex system. It is not my speech to find the full balance between the branch organizations. There will be none. The entire law, which is now presented, on which we want to extend the time limit to continue the debates, clearly shows the positions of the individual branch organisations, very clearly show the interests of one and the interests of the other organizations. Which organization is stronger, more powerful, richer and louder, achieves its interests and remains small, small organizations that are not hearing the word that has no money to go to the city, let alone participate in media and defend their positions. Our idea of transferring everything to the industry and waiting for consensus is not working. My speech is about something else, dear colleagues. In the entire bill, I don't see where the state is. I do not see where Bulgaria's position is, which wants to introduce a certain order in the land relations, and last but not least, I stress what type of agriculture wants to develop our country from now on in a very long term. There is no position on the strategic, political, visionary, in this project, and it is not private. In the Bill, apart from branch organizations, the country itself is involved, which determines the direction of development of agriculture for the next 20, 30, 50 years. This one's gone. Firstly, on the condition that we have a new common agricultural policy, provided that the restitution process is completed and that our agriculture comes to a qualitatively new degree, my call to the government is, apart from transferring the bill of industry organisations to agree, that the state introduces its own repertoires on which it wants to move agriculture from now on. If the managers have a vision, an idea how to develop our agriculture, to come out and to announce from this tribune, in the sense................................. that we support this status quo, which is now 2% of farmers to process 80 percent of Bulgaria's land; do we maintain this status quo to export only and only cereals in unprocessed form that have no contribution to gross domestic product; do we continue to import fruits, vegetables and meat, or do we want to change agriculture in the sense of Bulgaria.................................................. There is no coincidence a resolution of the European Parliament of 27 April 2017 on the over-concentration of land in the countries of the former Eastern bloc. Bulgaria in this regard is a champion. Are we still concentrating the land in the hands of a handful of people, or are we developing the family, family and small, medium-sized agricultural farm in Bulgaria? If in this bill they find answers to such questions as: how much should be the rent period, how much to be the maximum rented land, how much to be the maximum property that can process a farmer, how much to be the ceiling of the farmers' subsidies, this will largely predeterminate and it will become clear what is the vision of the managers for the development of Bulgarian agriculture. If you have an idea, please announce it from here. If you do not have, my call to you is within this period, which we will extend now until the end of the year, to give clear instructions to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests what repers, what starting positions they should defend in negotiations with industry organisations, so that the state policy, the country's strategic development and this sector are simply like a leading thread in the bill. Colleagues talked a lot, but I feel like they talked like a working group with proposals, paragraphs, members. Colleagues, we're not on a task force! We are in the Bulgarian Parliament here there are policies, strategies are being made here for the development of the sector. If the government wants to change the current status quo from over-concentrated holding to diversification, family, family, small and medium-sized farms, to giving priority to the previously neglected industries, such as livestock, vegetable production and forestry, please call on the ruling coalition to lay down such parameters in this law on this path to develop Bulgarian agriculture for a long period of time. Thank you. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u27	Thank you, Mr. Abase. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask for an extension of the speaking group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u29	It's prolonged.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u30	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As the proposed bill carries provisions of the current Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land and is largely related to the damage to public relations related to spatial planning, I would like to introduce you to the opinion of the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria. In connection with the exercise of its functions under art. 5, t. 1 et c. 6 of the Law on the Chambers of Architects and Engineers in Investment Design, the management of the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria considers that since the Draft Law on Property in Land Relations and the Conservation of Agricultural Land significantly governs the public relations related to planning, investment design and construction in a way that departs from the general rules of the Law on the Construction of the Area, they support and adopt the principle need to develop such a uniform legislation that governs land-based relations, but believe that literally a number of archaic provisions and institutes from previous laws and regulations have been adopted in the project and could seek significantly better and economical contemporary solutions in line with the rest of our legislation, especially in the field of structural planning. They offer an opinion on specific texts and parts of the project. They shall examine the provision of art. 5, according to them, at first glance it is aimed at creating additional restrictions on the change of destination of agricultural land for other needs. Indeed, according to art. 21, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, a change in the purpose of agricultural land is permitted exceptionally in case of proven need and under conditions and by order laid down by law. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. 1 of the Bill lists four comprehensive exceptions to the general prohibition in the event of a change in the purpose of agricultural land. However, the prohibition referred to in the paragraph itself shall be for a period of seven years except where those exceptions exist. That is, after the expiry of that period, a change in the use of agricultural land for other purposes may be made without the existence of those four exceptional conditions, which is hardly the purpose of the constituent of the text and is contrary to other parts of the project itself, which they consider more thoroughly. According to architects, the proposed text not only does not give additional protection to agricultural land, but opens up the possibility of changing its purpose beyond what is allowed under the Constitution. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. 1, t. 1 of the Bill as a necessary condition for change of purpose has been stated. The specific purpose of land estates is determined by the detailed planning plans. 8 of the Law on Structure of the Area. In view of this, the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria considers that the existence of a common plan is not a sufficient condition for changing the use of agricultural land for other purposes. On the other hand, there are still parts of the territory of municipalities without common planning. There the device was carried out with detailed planning. This hypothesis must also find its solution. As this law will determine what are the exceptions for changing the purpose of agricultural land under art. 21, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, it is appropriate that they, as well as the other restrictions, be systematically settled in one place. According to the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria the proposed project indicates certain exceptions from art. 21, para. 2 of the Constitution in different places and with different content, which will definitely create problems in implementing and interpreting the Law. The management of the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria also pays attention to the provisions in Chapter 3. This part of the project provides for the renovation of agricultural properties through a plan for the renovation. This plan is a special type of spatial plan, as shown by the provisions of art. 7 - 16 of the Bill, it changes the boundaries of existing properties to achieve the stated objectives in art. 7 which is subsequently reflected free of charge in the map of the restored property, the cadastral map and the cadastral registers. The plan for deployment is actually a plan for changing the map of restored property, respectively of the cadastral map and of the cadastral registers. In addition, this plan has a trans-lative effect.. transfer ownership of the weeded properties................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 12, para. Three of the According to architects, the whole Chapter 3 should be revised for the following reasons: 1. It is not clear who the competent authority is to approve the plan for use. The authority competent to approve the plan should be specified in the Law and not by its implementing Rules. 2. Article 12, para. 1 of the Project shall be specified by a specific administrative authority which shall issue a decision with a certain content on the basis of the approved deployment plan, without, however, indicating who approves it. 3. Since the deployment plan may constitute an amendment to the restored property map, as on the cadastral map and cadastral registers, different competent authorities may be suggested for its approval. 4. The act approving the plan shall be a primary act in relation to the decision referred to in Article 1. 12 of the Project, which is stated that it can be challenged before the District Court only in the event of non-compliance with the approved plan of deployment. Is the instrument of approval of the plan not understood to be subject to appeal, and in what order? 5. It is not clear why the communication of the decision under art. 12, para. 1 of the Project shall be carried out under the Civil Procedure Code and the appeal shall be dealt with by the Regional Court after individual administrative acts are subject to the Administrative Procedure Code and the administrative courts are competent. 6. The decision referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 12, para. 1 of the Project, as under para. 3 of the same text replaces the notary act between the parties, should contain all the props of the agreement between the owners under art. 7. That is to say, it can be seen as a substitute for a final contract between the parties to the agreement. However, the Parties shall comply with the restriction laid down in art. 12, para. 2 of the Project cannot dispute the discrepancy between the will expressed by them in the agreement and that reflected in the decision. 7. It is not clear if the well-developed property consists of the former properties of different owners, how the relations between them are settled in the new property. In the absence of a regulation, it appears that art. 9 of the Law on Obligations and Contracts, including property from the state and municipal land fund, which also opens doors to misunderstandings. 8. The provision of art. 11, para. 2 of the Project provides for the relocation or deletion of agricultural roads which are public state or public municipal property. 9. With art. 10, para. 1 of the Project creates undue restrictions on the conclusion of legal transactions between the parties to the agreement. 10. From the definition in art. 7 of the Project is understood that a prerequisite for the development and approval of the plan is an agreement between the owners, i.e. at the initiative of the owners concerned. Thus, the harmonization plan should not affect the rights and interests of third parties. From the proposed provision of art. However, 15 of the project can be assumed that there may be a plan for weeding which is not under agreement between the owners themselves. 11. According to the proposed art. 9, para. 2 of the Project The approved plan for weeding shall be reflected in the cadastral map and cadastral registers, but the basis for change of ownership according to art. 12, para. 3 of the Project is the decision under art. 12, para. One, which is a follow-up. Cadastral map and cadastral registers already reflect rights already emerging, not upcoming. There is a contradiction with the basic principles of the cadastral. 12. Once the approved plan has been reflected in the cadastral map and cadastral registers, it remains unclear what sketches will be issued to the decisions under art. 12, para. 1. The Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria also notes that the proposed framework of special contracts for the retrievable use of agricultural land needs to be re-analyzed and refined the texts. Too many and too substantial are deviations from the general contract law. They shall consider that as referred to in Article 1. 124 of the project is inappropriate for the state and municipalities to be able to prove their right to ownership of agricultural land by several different acts. The state and municipalities should have a single register of all their properties and a uniform way of proof of their property. The matter covered by art. Art. 123, Art. 124, should be settled in the State Property Act and the Municipal Property Act. The proposed provision of art. 126 of the project creates inequality of different types of property and contradicts the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. In addition, according to art. 7, para. 1 of the State Property Act and art. 7, para. 1 of the Municipal Property Act cannot be acquired by limitation properties public state and public municipal property. The Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria provides concrete proposals for editing of the texts. The provisions of art. 264 "265" of the Project to be fully redesigned with a view to their synchronization with art. 12, para. Art. 3 and Art. 124a "125a" of the Law on the Construction of the Area. They also pay special attention to Chapter nineteenth Art. 281, para. 5, t. 6 and to art. 283, para. 1, t. 8 of the Project related to the suspension of administrative proceedings, which is actually regulated in art. 54 of the Administrative Procedure Code. According to the representatives of the Chamber of Architects, the Law introduces an additionally general and difficult to control basis for suspension of administrative proceedings. The proposed text makes it possible for the Commission to suspend proceedings in any unclear manner until it has been clarified without being bound by a period of time for clarification or by any specifics on the removal of uncertainties, which would be an unacceptable approach. About Art. 283, para. 1, t. 7 point (a) of the Project the possibility of an administrative authority to revoke or amend (review, review) its decision should be subject to the general rules of the Administrative Procedure Code. Art. 91, Art. Art. 99, Art. 156 of the AKK. As introduced in the Bill, the administrative authority shall be allowed at any time to be able to review the acts issued by it, which destroys legal stability. About Art. 283, para. 1, t. A different legislative approach should be found in point 7 (b) of the Project. We are talking about sound individual administrative acts issued on the basis of repealed regulations. It is clear from all the comments made that the provisions of the Bill should be synchronized with the rest of the specialized legislation governing public relations relating to spatial planning, investment design and construction. This could happen by subjecting the Bill to wide public consultation, taking into account the competent opinions of branch and individual professional organisations. In this regard, I call on my fellow Members to support proposals for a draft decision to extend the deadline for drawing up and making available a single legislative act to regulate land relations in their entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mrs. Taneva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I wanted to make a statement to respond to Mr. Abase, but I see he's no longer in the room. I won't be able to answer everyone because some qualifications were just insulting to anyone's work. Fellow Members, there have been many reasons for how we should support this draft decision and they have been correct. In each of the speakers, including the political forces that are outside GERB, whatever we say, the truth is that in this form the proposed bill by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry does not meet the needs in the sector and the need for its processing is obvious. The consensus can always be achieved when the initiator of the legislation, the author of the legislation, is able to convince the participants in the process of what the purpose of the bill is. And if this is a state-owned, strategic goal for the development of the sector, it is not a problem to convince participants in these relations that such legislation should act. Obviously, however, we are not at that stage. The legislation of stubbornness cannot be done if the bill presented at public consultation by the Ministry is unacceptable, for any of the participants, naturally, and it is right for us to support the Ministry to extend this period in order to give them time to correct the notes that have been received and their very vision of how the proposed bill should be in final form. All the motives are true. The truth is, there's nothing we can do but extend the deadline. I therefore ask you to support the draft decision for which, at the request of the Ministry, a report submitted through the Council of Ministers, Members of the National Assembly have proposed the extension of the deadline.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Are there any lines? I can't see. Was there a statement made by Mr. Gechev? [[Heckling]] We're out of time. Yes, thank you. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I'll read: Project! DECISION amending Decision of the National Assembly of 19 September 2017 concerning the debates on the questions of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for establishing order in the land relations (GW, No. 77, 2017), as amended by decision of the National Assembly of 12 October 2018. (DV, No. 85 from 2018) The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED In the decision of the National Assembly of 19 September 2017 concerning the debates on the asking of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for establishing order in the land relations (GW, No. 77, 2017), as amended by decision of the National Assembly of 12 October 2018. (DV, No. 85 from 2018), in point II, the words Please, voting mode. Voted 103 MPs: 101, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We continue with the second point of the Work Programme: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS FOR CHANGES IN STANDING COMMITMENTS. The representatives Iskren Veselinov, Valentin Kasabov, Georgi Kolev and Christian Mitev from 21 February 2019 and the People's Representative Polina Tsankova from 22 February 2019. Anybody want to present the projects? We move on to the presentation of the decisions. I'll read them to you. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Valeri Simeonov Simeonov as a member of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Are there any speeches? I won't. I am voting on the draft decision that I have presented. Vote 95 MPs: 88 against 7, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Two: Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on Interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Elena Stefanova Axieva as a member of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. Vote 96 MPs: 94, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Next: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Elena Stefanova Axieva is elected member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. Voted 103 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: ANNUAL REPORT ON THE ACTION OF NATIONAL HEALTH AND HEALTH CACUS FOR 2017 You have the floor, Doctor Daritkova, to present the opinion of the Committee on Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, please put to the vote the admission to the plenary of the Deputy Minister of Health and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund Mrs. Zheny Nacheva and the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund Dr. Decho Dechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u35	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 99 MPs: 97 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite Deputy Minister Nacheva and Dr. Dechev. Go on, dear Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u36	"COMMODITY" on the Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2017, No 802-00-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2018. At its regular meeting on 12 July 2018, the Health Committee examined the Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2017, No 802-00-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2018. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Health and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, the interim governor of the National Health Insurance Fund Dr. Yordanka Penkova and other guests. The report in question was presented by Mrs. Zheny Nacheva. During the reporting period, the structural units in the Central Management of the National Health Insurance Fund and the secondary authorising officers of a lower degree (RHIF) fulfilled their functional duties in accordance with relevant European and national legislation and with the internal administrative acts of the National Health Insurance Fund. The functioning of the system shall be implemented in accordance with the requirements for strict compliance with budgetary discipline, proper coordination and subordination of administrative activity and the legality of processes in the electronic reporting of the activities of contractual partners. The preventive role of the control activity carried out in 2017 has taken into account a positive impact, which is expressed in strict implementation of the algorithms of clinical pathways, improvement of the quality of medical activity and work in keeping the documentation and organisation in medical institutions. As a lasting indicator during the reporting and previous periods, the increase in costs for medicinal products due to the entry of new, expensive molecules, as well as the annual increase in the number of health-insured persons addressing the system. There is also an increase in the number of patients with rare diseases. In this regard, the final part of the report under consideration states the need to establish a special (State) fund to support the financing of rare diseases. The advantage of stimulating medical professionals to prescribing generic medicinal products through educational programs for the advantages of generic policy is highlighted. As a public institution, called by law to protect the rights of health insured persons, and in 2017. The National Health Insurance Fund continues to work in full transparency, putting the patient at the heart of its activities and its needs. In the discussion of the report was supported by the members of the Commission, the proposal made by the President of the Commission Dr. Daniela Daritkova on the attached draft decision of the National Assembly for adoption of the document under consideration. The editorial proposal is part of that legal basis for adoption of the draft decision, namely: the words "art." 30, para. 1 of the Social Security Act to be replaced by.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 30, para. 2 of the Insurance Act. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the draft decision for adoption of the Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2017, No 802-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u37	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. Here you go, Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u38	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mrs. Deputy Minister! In 2017 the activities of the National Health Insurance Fund on drug policy aim, on the one hand, to provide medicines for the human use of all health-insured persons and, on the other hand, to increase the control of prescription and release. In this regard, the following is done: - adaptation and implementation of the updates of Annex 1 to the Positive Drug List of each 1st and 16th of the month; - adaptation and implementation of the updates of Annex No 2 to the Positive Drug List for medicinal products for the treatment of malignancies. As an integral part of its activities, the National Health Insurance Fund also made updates in 2017 in a number of databases. Data have been updated in the registers "Doctors", "Diseases", "Manufacturers", "Linked medicine "Disease." Many references and analyses have been prepared regarding the consumption of medicinal products, medical devices and diet foods for special medical purposes. As of 31 December 2017, the National Health Insurance Fund, respectively the regional health insurance funds, concluded contracts with 2469 pharmacies. On 1 January 2017, the National Health Insurance Fund paid 1692 medicinal products included in Annex No 1 to the Positive Drug List and on 31 December 2017 the number increased to 1714. Since 1 April 2017, the National Health Insurance Fund has paid a total of 3016 medical devices to 180 manufacturers. During the reporting period, the control bodies of the regional health insurance funds carried out 4291 financial checks on the distribution of medicinal products in the pharmacies. With violations detected, 61% of the total number of checks were completed. The sanctions imposed amount to 375 thousand. lv. Also during the reporting period the trend for increasing the cost of medicinal products, medical devices and special needs foods is maintained. The reasons are complex on the one hand, the introduction of new more expensive molecules, as well as the annual increase in the number of health insured persons involved in the system of the National Health Insurance Fund. The increased life expectancy also has an impact on drug consumption. There is also an increase in the average cost of a health-insured person who turned to the system. The number of patients with rare diseases also increased during the reporting period. In this regard, there is a need to create a specialized state fund to support the financing of rare diseases. In order to optimize costs, it is necessary to stimulate the doctors of generic prescription through educational programs for the advantages of generic policy. Successfully held negotiations for a discount on the value of expensive medicated therapies paid by the National Health Insurance Fund have enabled substantial amounts to be recovered. For the reporting period, the agreed concessions amount to 161 million. lv. It is necessary to regulate the possibility of granting a discount in kind. This measure would definitely motivate holders of a marketing authorisation for medicinal products for better participation in the concession negotiated procedure. Thus, the National Health Insurance Fund will secure an agreed reduced price of the full nomenclature of medicinal products intended for malignancy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u39	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. Are there any lines? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Doctor Papasimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Nacheva, Deputy Minister of Health, honourable Members! I will refer to this part of the Annual Activity Report of the Health Insurance Fund, which concerns dental medicine. The average insurance with dentists providing primary, outpatient dental care in 2017 was one doctor of 1133 health-insured persons. Compared to the previous year, this represents an increase of 0.9%. For 2016 the insurance is one doctor of 1143 health insured persons. This is related to the increase of dentists from 6489 to 6503, as well as the decrease of the number of population, which is health insurance in Bulgaria. For the two periods considered, the largest insurance is located in the Regional Health Insurance Fund Sofia, and the Regional Health Insurance Fund Plovdiv. The largest relative increase in insurance is observed in the Regional Health Insurance Fund " Pernik," with 5.3% of one doctor to 986 insured persons, one in 936. The Regional Health Insurance Fund "Tergovishte" continues to have the least insurance, despite the increase of 1.1% of a doctor there are 2128 insured persons, and in 2016 one doctor had 2106. Despite the increase in the average insurance in the country, the disproportion on this indicator between the various health insurance funds, there is a trend that in larger cities there is a higher insurance of health insured persons. The share of health insured persons receiving dental aid in 2017 decreased marginally compared to the share for 2016. From 24,4 to 24,2. For this period it is the highest in the Regional Health Insurance Fund (Smolyan) and the Regional Health Insurance Fund (SCI) Plovdiv, where there is also a minimal reduction in these two regions, from 32.5 to 31.9 and from 30.1 to 29.8 respectively. In the case of a regional health insurance fund with the smallest share of dental aid received, this is the Regional Health Insurance Fund.Silistra, there is from 18,6 to 18,5. In 2017, average domestic activities were reported at 0.55 in the previous year. This is an increase of 7.45, which is due to the increase in this indicator in the age group over 18 years of age by 10.7%, although in health insured persons below 18 years this percentage decreased by 2.9%. This increase is mainly due to the fact that, from September 2016 to December 2017, there is an increased number of procedures for health insured persons over 18 years from 2 to 3. From those who visited primary outpatient dental aid in 2017, each insured person received an average of 2.43 treatment activities, which increased by 8.3 compared to the previous year. The increase is also due to an increased number of activities due to health insured persons over 18 years. This increase is observed in all regional health insurance funds, with the highest values according to this indicator are the Regional Health Insurance Fund - Blagoevgrad, and the Regional Health Insurance Fund - Kardzhali - with 9.5 and 6.5% respectively. These regional health insurance funds are the highest indicator in both the age group older than 18 years and up to the age of 18. This indicator, differentiated by age for a health insured person up to 18 years of age, is 2.84 activities, with a decrease of 0.8% compared to 2016, and an increase of 11.3% in health insured persons older than 18. The differences in the reported activities for the age groups are mainly due to the unparalleled volume of packages in the health insured persons over 18 years of age and there are two activities up to September 2016 and three activities in the period September 2016 and December 2017 and in the health insured persons up to 18 years of age, four activities throughout the period. The average number of activities reported for insured persons over 18 years increased its value by 12.3% from 0,40 for 2016 to 0,45, while for insured persons up to 18 years it was reduced by 2% from 0.56 to 0.55 for the same period. And here the increase in children over 18 years of age is again due to the increased number of activities provided by the Health Insurance Fund, which increased from two to three in the period September 2016. "Month of December 2017" The average number of activities reported for 100 insured persons up to the age of 18 years from 8 years of age from 2016 decreased to 8,42 activities for 2017. This indicator is the highest in the Regional Health Insurance Fund. It is 48% higher than the national average and increased by 1.1% compared to the previous year. The average number of activities reported is increased by 4.3%. This increase, again, is due to an increased number of manipulations that are attributed to health-insured patients over 18 years of age for 2017. The average number of activities reported for the country................................................................................................................................................................ The average number of activities reported is the highest paid activity by the Health Insurance Fund, with a decrease of 7,7% from 7,19% for 2016 per 100 insured persons up to 18 years of age at 6,64% for 2016. Here we can make a conclusion that there is increased prevention that there is an earlier diagnosis, and the number of people treated by the pulp of a permanent tooth has decreased, which tends to improve. The average number of reported activities of a dentist in 2017 was 668, which was an increase of 6.5% compared to 2016, when it was 627. This increase is due to the changed number of contractual activities for the age group over 18 years from the last 4 months of 2016 to the end of 2017, despite other factors affecting the opposite direction of the change of the indicator, the increasing number of dentists and the reduced number of health insured persons. The most reported activity of a dentist has in the Republic of Bulgaria: 955, which is 43.1% above the national average. In RZOC Sofia-city dentists have reported at least activities in the two years "479" for 2016 and 521 for 2017, which is again in direct connection that the insurance in Sofia-city is higher than in other regional health insurance banks, so this number is smaller. The insurance with a dentist providing surgical dental care in 2017 is one doctor of 71 527 health-insured persons with one doctor at 75 676 for 2016. The greatest insurance is available in the RHIF "Vidin." She's a doctor of 16 311 health insurance. The average number of curative activities reported under the "Children outpatient dental care" package for the country is 17.7 activities of 1000 health insured persons in 2017, which is an increase of 2.61% compared to 2016. The analysis of the modification of the volumes and structure of the activities reported by the performers of outpatient dental aid for 2017 compared to 2016, in the case of a reserved package of activities of health insured persons up to 18 years and a different package of activities for health insured persons over 18 years.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Compared to the previous year, this represents an increase. In both periods considered, almost every fourth insured person received dental aid, with the share of health insured persons receiving dental aid in 2017 decreased from 24,3% to 24,1% compared to the share in 2016. As a result of the increased number of agreed treatment activities in 2017 for health insured persons over the age of 18.... from two years to three, an increase of the relative indicators for the reported activities in this age group related to the two treatment activities is observed, and these are depreciation and extraction. This leads both to an increase in the reporting activities of health insured persons over 18 years of age and to a general increase in the reporting activities by dentists for the reporting period. In the case of the highest paid activity, a decrease in the value of the indicator by 7.7% is observed, as well as a sharp outline with very high values of the indicator for RZIF, Blagoevgrad, which is 160% respectively. The average number of reported activities decreased by 0.4% in 2017. This indicator stands out with its high value in RHIF Vidin: 108.6%, which is 34% above the national average, despite a decrease of 2.8% compared to the previous year. I just want to make a brief reference to the control that has been given. 1766 joint checks and 27 self-checks were carried out in medical facilities, where 1902 dentists were checked. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u41	Thank you, dear Dr. Papasimov. - What's the line? I can't see. Dear Associate Professor Ivanov, you have the floor. You made a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'd like to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u43	You're gonna have to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u44	My fellow Members, I would like to focus on an extremely important problem of the Health Insurance Fund and it is about stabilizing the health insurance model. Firstly, ensuring financial stability and security of the health care system; stabilizing the health insurance model and initiating a phased demonopolization of the Health Insurance Fund, which I think started very successfully last year. Secondly, carrying out a balanced and integrated national drug policy providing financial stability, securing the system by implementing the following measures: - regulation of measures for monitoring of medicinal products to limit exports and re-exports, in which, I think, we have all become accomplices - a necessity in order to ensure timely access of Bulgarian patients to drug therapy; - introducing mechanisms for providing medicinal products in the absence or shortage of medicinal products on the Bulgarian market and achieving greater effectiveness in negotiating concessions for medicinal products; - improving reimbursement and pricing policy in the field of drug policy by introducing clear rules for pharmaceutical market participants in order to achieve higher financial stability and security of the system; - monitoring of the effect of therapy with medicinal products belonging to a new international non-proprietary name included in the Positive Drug List, a prerequisite for assessing their continued inclusion in the Positive Drug List, a basis of proven therapeutic effect, extremely important; - the development of pharmacotherapeutic manuals in all clinical specialities with a view to more effective treatment; - the establishment of a National Register of Medical Devices, paid by public funds in order to improve efficiency and control; - launch and conduct of an electronic tender for the delivery of medicinal products, which will contribute to reducing cost; - taking preparatory action to launch an electronic auction for delivery of medical devices; - developing regulatory changes to regulate the merciful use of unauthorised medicinal products for humane reasons for certain patient groups; - improving the health technology assessment system by reforming the organisational structure, personnel resources and powers and obligations; - improving and improving the effectiveness of the health insurance model is linked to the criteria for the quality of medical activities with access to financial resources from the National Health Insurance Fund; - initiating a public debate on the demonopolization of the Health Insurance Fund; - development of selection mechanisms for the selection of medical service contractors and funded by the National Health Insurance Fund based on the National Health Card; - changes in the package of hospital activities to remove activities in outpatient activities; - improving the valuation mechanisms for medical activities taking into account all components, including the work of medical staff; - the establishment of an Integrated Information System linking in real time the information systems of the Ministry of Health, the National Health Insurance Fund, the National Insurance Institute and the National Revenue Agency, providers of medical services, hospital practices, outpatient aid, pharmacies and transfer of all document turnover into a single electronic form; - building a National Health Information System through the use of new technologies in the field of eHealth in order to improve the quality and effectiveness of the health care process; building an electronic record, electronic patient file, e-recipe and e-direction; national implementation of a single patient identifier; - carrying out cross-border exchange of health data between Bulgaria and other members of the European Union; - improving access and quality of medical care; - ensuring the implementation of the National Health Card, which defines and plans the needs of the population of available outpatient assistance as an instrument for overcoming regional imbalance; - improving access to primary medical care by changing the ratio of funding, with the advantage of payment for activity and not capitulation; - addressing the problem of unoccupied practices through optimization and stimulating work; - provision by the NHIF, together with the state and local authorities, of on-call medical care offices outside the working hours of general practitioners; - improving the mechanisms for stimulating general practitioners working in adverse practices; - improving access to specialised medical care by increasing the number of directions and extending the scope of specialized outpatient care; - stimulating the functional unification of hospital care facilities on a regional principle for more efficient healthcare; - create incentives for restructuring beds for active treatment in beds for long-term treatment. I can go on with a lot more examples. I believe that this will optimise the activities of the Health Insurance Fund and will be able to redirect this resource to those areas where we do not have the necessary access and good medical care. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u45	Thank you, Associate Professor Ivanov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Dr. Jaffer, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At the risk of interrupting the Odea of Joy by examining this report on the activities of the Health Insurance Fund, I am obliged to say a few important things in my opinion. In this room there are at least a few people who know that this report on the activities of the National Health Insurance Fund should go with another more important report, a more important report on the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, where the real problems are. And today we ask the question again as we asked it last year: Mrs. Stoyanova, when will the Budget and Finance Committee be pleased to review the 2016 and 2017 reports? The Committee on Health has done what is necessary, examined and voted on these reports. Is everything in the health care system okay, everything in order, and there's no need for analysis?! The aim of the legislative effort to require such reports is to analyse this period. And now, honourable Members, for those who are not in the subject and do not know the details, I would like to go back a little bit and remind you, 2017 is the time of the absolute legislative bacchanal in the field of health, the time of total management chaos. Managers of the Health Insurance Fund were gentlemen Glinka Komitov, a temporary performer of the position. "Dr. Mitko Petrov, and Professor Plotchev" three in one year. Presidents of Oversight were Vanyo Sharkov, Kiril Ananiev and Zheny Nacheva. This report reaffirms that the accounts of the Health Insurance Fund do not represent the real financial situation of the health system. This is the year in which the problem with the huge amount of unpaid expenses to foreign hospitals is shaped. At the end of this year, the manager of the Health Insurance Fund then raised the issue of the outstanding over 240 million. lv. It's a huge amount of money. This is not about 240 BGN, it is about 240 million unpaid from the Bulgarian Health Insurance Fund to foreign medical institutions for the treatment of Bulgarian citizens! The point of this debate and these reports is to make an analysis and to see trends. More than 65%, for example, of these unpaid costs, are to cover expenditure on the European Health Card, traveling Bulgarian citizens for urgent and urgent assistance. Only 10% are for the so-called S2 document on scheduled treatment, about 14% of these unpaid are the funds they receive for their treatment temporary residents, consular services, representatives of seconded and so on. In this sense, if the principles of objectivity are leading, Mrs. Stoyanova, you should have examined this report and not accepted it in the Committee on Budget and Finance. Maybe that's why you're not filing this report and not looking at it?! As far as the activity report is concerned, it should show the Supervisory Board's efforts to solve the problems in the system, to make operational decisions to mitigate, for example, the problems with the overly paid activity, a huge amount for this period, too. We must not forget that the Supervisory Board and the National Health Insurance Fund are simply payers, but health policy, health decisions must be made by the Council of Ministers, respectively by the Ministry of Health. The Health Insurance Fund has always had a very complex dilemma to contain expenditure within the budget parameters voted in the National Assembly, but also to meet expectations, claims, requirements of patients to receive high-tech and diagnostic treatment procedures. Whether or not this is taking place is rather not the answer. That's what I learned from the speeches, from the reports, from the ones who developed the speakers before me. Again, however, there are issues on the agenda for each report, every budget, in any case, when you were releasing someone or assigning someone to these important posts that I listed just now. There are questions about the management of the Health Insurance Fund, the decision making process, who is responsible for these decisions, the future of the Health Insurance Fund, the health insurance model and the health system in general. And in that sense, we come back to the question: what about the health insurance model? I just remind you that the National Assembly has commissioned the Minister of Health to present a new health insurance model. To a general pleasant surprise, he said he was ready with two models that were presented. Then the blitzcontrol became clear that a third model was being worked on. Lately, the idea of a fourth model has been launched. What happens to the health insurance model, when will it be presented, discussed and accepted? The problems of the health system are obviously deepening because what I can specifically say about this report on the health care system's activities would look like this. There it is written: The report on the activities of the Health Insurance Fund for 2017 is subject to the mission and objectives of the institution. "This is precisely what it is about to return to the topic of the mission and the objectives of this institution. This is supposed to be a serious conversation today. However, we must not forget that even in this report it is written that the often changing regulatory environment is then an essential obstacle to the decisions made and the results that are ultimately taken into account. The only perhaps positive thing that happened in this period, in 2017, is that concessions have been agreed on for medicinal products and this is a trend that goes on and on. But I will now read you an opinion of the Fiscal Council regarding this report. It is said that cost planning should be improved by increasing the accuracy of revenues and costs; that high-tech activities and healing methods should be introduced but no qualitative criteria should be applied; new approaches and methods should be applied to prevent the draining of the Health Insurance Fund; that there is no system for assessing the patient's condition in hospitalization and discharge; that criteria need to be established and established to assess the timeliness, effectiveness, adequacy and quality of medical care. So much for the finding of a Fiscal Council that you have chosen and in whose opinion you should listen. Thank you for your attention. We expect a serious discussion because the problems of the health system concern every Bulgarian citizen, and it is obvious that they are serious. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u47	Thank you, dear Dr. Jaffer. Are there any lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Deputy Minister Nacheva! I would like to refer briefly to a few moments from the Annual Report on Hospital Aid and rather the activities of the Health Insurance Fund as a party to the contract. However, I would like to make a statement that we do not forget that we are looking at the activity report, not the financial part of the Cashier. The report shows that the functioning of the system was in the spirit of strict compliance with budgetary discipline and in the pursuit of proper coordination of administrative activity. It is these two main moments that enable detailed analyses of the causes that may lead to problematic situations in the activities of medical aid contractors, as well as a response to adverse trends. In this sense, a pretty good option is to analyse how patients older than 18 years of age have been followed, who have socially significant diseases of the cardiovascular system, pulmonary system, endocrine system and others for which the cassata, anyway, pays dispensary surveillance in outpatient care, and on the other hand, are targeted and then become part of the accepted treatment in hospitals and become subject to hospital care. This is for compared periods for 2016 and 2017. Comparative analyses from 46 groups of diseases have shown that 40% is reported reduction in hospitalization of one person, as well as the number of hospitalizations, increase in others Such a comparative analysis can now give a specific guidance on the necessary preventive actions, on which methodological group what can be undertaken or corrected, especially when it comes to these particular socially significant diseases. The control activity must continue to be improved in order to reduce a very unpleasant moment in the whole activity... the number of unwarranted hospitalizations. It should be taken into account that regulatoryly regulated medical activities in the field of health care were carried out in 2017 in a very dynamic environment, in numerous regulatory changes. There were some standards that dropped in anesthesiology, in surgery. However, according to the report, the checks carried out appear to have had a disciplinary effect in the direction of improving the quality of medical care, improving the quality of medical records carried out and reducing the number of certain hospitalizations compared to previous periods. However, looking at the data presented for the period analysed, some recommendations for the upcoming activity report in 2018. From the graphs presented in the report, it can be seen that there are large differences in the number of checked diseases (stories of diseases), i.e. the medical documentation accompanying the patient when he is admitted to a hospital, in the number of these checked disease stories, even between comparable regions. For example, some 46,000 stories of diseases have been checked in Plovdiv, and in Varna, some over six thousand have been checked, and Plovdiv and Varna are comparable as volume, as regions. In the same way Kyustendil and Montana are with about 20 thousand verified IZs for 2017, and in Razgrad and Targovishte about two thousand. For example, only 100 were checked in the town of Dobrich. It is clear that this will also affect the found violations. More than 900 wrong stories of diseases were found in Plovdiv, while, for example, Silistra and Dobrich are single units. In the same way is the issue of overall outstanding clinical pathways due to various errors. In Lovech, Shumen, Blagoevgrad are more than 120 unrecognized clinical trails, respectively unpaid to performers, while in Dobrich, Montana and Targovishte are zero. Apparently, there were absolutely no mistakes found there. Data are presented as factology and compared as absolute values. However, this does not make it clear why these major differences are due to whether this is from the more intensive control activity of the regional fund concerned, whether there are problems with administrative communication between the performers of medical activities in the defined area and the relevant cash register, or whether the doctors themselves or performers of medical activities are greater offenders than those in other regions. So these comparative data should be presented not by absolute values but by percentage for each region, and then compared in order to be able to analyse the reasons for these differences in the areas concerned. And so, in this way, a report would be the basis for some necessary corrective action towards the activity of the area. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Dear colleagues, there is an exhibition of children's drawings in the Club of the National Representative on the European project "Communication campaign for the promotion of tourist destinations in Bulgaria." 250 paintings presented the children's vision of natural and historical objects and customs have participated in the competition. 17 municipalities from all over the country participated in the campaign organized by the Ministry of Tourism. The exhibition will be in the National Assembly by 5 March. I announce a 30-minute interruption of work, and then we continue with speeches. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u50	I ask the Quaestors to urge the Members of the National Assembly to listen to the continuation of the discussion about the activity of the Health Insurance Fund. Dr. Ademov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Mrs Deputy Minister, Dear colleagues! I had no intention of speaking, but I was provoked by what happened before the break during the discussion of the report on the activities of the Health Insurance Fund for 2017. I unwittingly asked myself what was the point of looking at this report? It is for 2017. Under the Health Insurance Act, this report shall be submitted to the National Assembly by the month of June of the following year. The answer to the question that I asked myself is a very simple one, which does not make any sense to look at this report. If it makes any sense, it is to fill the agenda of the National Assembly. Why am I saying this? I know that this is a very serious and heavy qualification, because there are many other such budgets, which wait for their turn to ever enter the National Assembly and again make no sense of their viewing. These are the reports for the implementation of the State Budget Act, the budget of the State Social Security, the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, if you will. What sense did the legislator make by ordering these reports to be submitted by June in order to be able, on the basis of the analysis to be done, to make adjustments to the policies for next year? That's the point, and that's why I'm saying that the current viewing is just a pull-over. My request is also to those who submit the reports because they comply with the laws as they are prescribed. The National Health Insurance Fund has submitted the Cashier's activity report for 2017 within the relevant deadline, but unfortunately, now, in 2019, we find time to look at this report. I would also like to say a few words what is actually the main role of the National Health Insurance Fund. The main role of the National Health Insurance Fund is to administer the compulsory health insurance processes. Nothing else! A regular paying agency, a regular paying agency! Well, someone will say that the laws must have other detailed functions, but the main goal is to administer the compulsory health insurance processes. Is this money, which is increasing every year in the sector of......................................... through the activity administered by the National Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Health, provide the expected effect? Because obviously, when there is a larger financial resource at the entrance, we should expect better health indicators. Unfortunately, this isn't happening. I would also like to say a few words about the organisational structure of the National Health Insurance Fund, from which they follow the functional characteristics. The next step is to do what they do. Colleagues, you know that for the whole of Bulgaria in the National Health Insurance Fund work around 2300 people, 325 of them are in the central government. Of these 2,300 people, 800 are doctors. If someone has done the analysis and analysis of the activities of these 800 doctors, in the outpatient and hospital care, we immediately come to the conclusion, there are such analyses, I have familiarized myself with them that the effect of the activities of these 800 controllers is less than their maintenance. Then, what effectiveness and efficiency are we talking about regarding the activities of the Health Insurance Fund? A few words about the current structure of the National Health Insurance Fund. Dear colleagues, the Supervisory Board, where there are representatives of the state, of employers, of trade unions, of social partners, by law there is also the head of the National Revenue Agency, there are representatives of patient organizations, the Supervisory Board by definition must perform supervisory functions and it performs management functions. What is the adoption of the budget? Adopting your budget is a paraxelance clean management function. How many times do we say these things from this tribune? If we want effective supervision, let this Supervisory Board not carry out functions that are inherent by the definition of the Manager, these are management functions. The definition of the budget for individual medical institutions is a purely management function. What role does the Supervisory Board play in setting the budget? By definition, it should be a supervisory authority and not be involved in purely management functions. And it's not an accident. Over the years, all management configurations in this hall and in the country Bulgaria have always sought in some way to manage this system and therefore appointed representatives of the state administration, ministries, deputy ministers and appointed governor, who is, as they say, with all my apology to all who were managers of the Casa, a puppet of threads. I mean, he's doing what the Supervisory Board says. What kind of manager is he? We're talking about the activities of the National Health Insurance Fund. It cannot be effective in this management structure. Therefore, honourable Members, in my opinion, it is much more important to analyse the possibilities for deploying the management potential of those who are managers of the National Health Insurance Fund because they are currently tied up. The Supervisory Board orders the governors and they perform, and in cases where they do not perform, as Professor Plochev, they go away. That's the truth about the National Health Insurance Fund. It is with great regret that I say this because I am the man who has known the work of the Cashier since the first day of its establishment, from the first day of its structuring. Therefore, I would like to make an effort to make this very important institution of the state effective, because, agree that all Bulgarian citizens in one way or another refer to this system. We need to make it work together effectively, and in order to be able to do this, we also need to watch these reports on time, watch them with the Cashier's Budget Report, in order to possibly correct the policies for the coming years. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u52	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Are there any lines? There are no lines. Are there any other statements? Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u53	Dear Madam President, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Deputy Minister Nacheva, honourable Members! I have a very brief statement on the Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund. The report we are looking at today is for 2017. The previous statements were related to the opposition colleagues, too, with problems and circumstances that need to be addressed, which need to be addressed. GERB has repeatedly called for a non-party consensus on health problems. I think this is the right approach to be applied. In my speech, I will only refer to part of the report in which the weight in these 50 pages of 250 is allocated to medicinal products, medical devices and to the control to prescribe their release. An important issue for the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund and the funds allocated to health care in Bulgaria are to affect precisely the part of medicinal products and medical devices. We have repeatedly commented here and in the Commission that more than one third of the allocated funds and the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund are going for medicinal products. It is here that it is important to note what made me particularly impressed in the 2017 report. The pro-generational policy, which is expected to be undertaken by the National Health Insurance Fund and the training of health professionals and doctors when prescribing, where possible, such generic products. Colleagues, we won't find the hot water. I think that any statement in the part that generic products are less efficient than originators is wrong, because this is a policy undertaken by many Western countries, such as Germany, the Netherlands, France, not to list them all. It is a policy that refers to the part of the resources allocated to health care to reach the maximum number of people and, naturally, to provide the necessary quality health service. The health service also has the effect of medical therapy and the health products that are being discharged, and by means of the Cashier, that is, with the means of all health-insured persons. Therefore, I think it is very important to really pay attention to a policy that is possible to implement, and I will tell you why The colleague Borisov at the beginning made a statement that over two thousand medical products, medicines are partially or completely reimbursed by the National Health Insurance Fund. Remember, here was a dispute over the reimbursing and introduction of new medicated therapies, as is the current order in Bulgaria. Indeed, there are very large funds for them, but when undertaking a pro-generic policy, precisely from old chronic diseases that are well influenced by such medicated therapies that are generic, I think that there will be even more funds left, and the Bulgarians will receive, as so far, the latest molecules to treat their diseases. I therefore find it well noted in the 2017 Report, I am sure it will also be available for 2018, and I hope that in 2019 we will take these decisive steps. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Shopov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In cases when we look at the reports, the problem for such institutions always becomes existential, i.e. is it to be the institution as such or not to be the institution?! From the colleagues who have spoken so far, I am under the impression that they are for the institution to remain so, but, of course, with reforms inside, with changes, while I think the issue is at all for the institution as such. We need to think about its existence or its transformation into another form. You remember about 20 years ago, the institution was conceived and implemented under the government of Ivan Kostov. Let's face it, as a source, as a place for punctuation of money. For a long time, she was just like that. During these two decades, attempts to discipline it, to bring it into some normal norms, of course, do not work out and never do. It is because it is falsely formed, sinfully born and placed on false principles as existence. It has always seemed to me that this institution is best suited in terms of economy, in view of its better functioning, it is high time for us to think about it, to switch to the Ministry of Health as a very important unit in the structure of this ministry. You will see that then things will stand in a completely different way as control, as self-control, as an administrative and bureaucratic machine. Because these 2,300 people justify this is not very few, of which 800 people are doctors engaged in this purely administrative activity. Therefore, we need to say more and more often to similar views that things need to change radically about this institution and finally put them in their real place. Let us not turn a blind eye to necessary general and radical reforms, so I am making this statement. It is high time for things to go back to the place of this institution to go back to the Ministry of Health, which plays the main public function. This is by definition in a legal state, so is the Constitution. And such fictional and neoliberal forums, such ways of distributing, controlling and supervising this activity to finally go into history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u56	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Are there lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Mrs. Nacheva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u57	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! We thank you for the debate on this extremely important topic related to the work of the Casa. As has already been noted, the 2017 report, which has long been completed, has served as good experience and guidance within which to address the problems in the sector in this year 2019. I can outline in several directions what we are trying to overcome on the basis of the identified gaps and problems in the Report for 2017, namely in relation to the votes and adopted by you, the MPs, changes in a number of health laws and budgetary law. What can happen this year is the following. In the area of financial resources we have again an additional half a billion leva budget resources, which will be targeted primarily in the field of primary assistance for prevention, dispensary surveillance, capititation pay and work pay under adverse conditions of general practitioners. In this way, together with the actions taken by the Ministry of Health to change the regulations on specializations and introduction of the possibility of specializations and specialties of general practitioners, part of the problem related to the lack of general practitioners will be overcome. The other direction in which we work is related to the introduction for the first time into the structure and scope of the National Framework Treaty of requirements and criteria for monitoring the quality of treatment based on the assessment of risk categories of patients in diseases that are often diagnosed in the field of cardiac, nervous, endocrine diseases. Indicators will be evaluated that will allow better care for people who fall into the so-called risk contingent for subsequent monitoring and treatment. These categories of quality criteria are first introduced within the scope of the National Framework Treaty and will be our priority in this year. In relation to the changes that you voted in the laws, standards will be developed on all medical specialities and rules for good medical practice, which will allow for the first time to be introduced from next year and payment mechanisms and criteria not only on the basis of historical principles and quantitative parameters, but also qualitative indicators. In the field of medicines in 2017, the increase in expenditure for rare diseases and oncology treatment continued in 2018. We are trying not to limit the entry of new medicines, molecules and diagnoses, but to give the right to optimally negotiate concessions for the companies concerned so that without stopping access to new technologies and treatments without stopping the development of generic medicinal products, patients can be treated most effectively. In this regard, we also introduce pharmacotherapeutic guides that so far did not exist in all medical fields and activities for work. There is also a change in the health technology assessment mechanism where predictability and sustainability will be given in a three-year period of entry of new technologies and treatment methods without creating a risk to the Casa budget. We further introduce and negotiate medical devices, and for the first time the criteria for the negotiation of medical devices based on good practices and standards for the quality of these products in other European countries are introduced, between three and five European countries, and negotiate directly with medical devices manufacturers, with which we believe that the financial resource will be spent much more effectively and a larger number of patients will have access to this type of activities. We also introduced regulation and calmness in the area of European payments. As Mr. Ananiev explained already, we have overcome the accumulated delays and during the current and next year they will be eliminated completely. There are contracts with the relevant European countries to pay these obligations and there is no refusal to treat any patient abroad within the meaning of European rules and agreements. At the same time, the Information System of the Cashier is developing, which will be part of the National Health Information System. Patients already have access to their file in the form and scope, which has the ARC code, which enables them to also participate in the control of the system's work. At the same time, the National Information System will also cover activities related to working with medical expertise and other segments of work of the Ministry of Health in order for patients to have access to both the activities provided to them and medical information to serve for the purposes of control by the funding institution, namely the Casata. Additional prerequisites have been created in the Cashier for improving administrative capacity by establishing a system for financial management and financial control. The day-to-day reporting mechanism by medical aid contractors is in place, with which in real time we can track their activities and eliminate all possibilities of abuse. We have included in the medical control the participation of all national consultants on the individual profiles of medical specialities in order to be able to professionally evaluate the work in the highly specialized fields of medical activity to make sure that where it is located it is in the required volume, quality and scale. In addition, we have provided access to medical care for all settlements with funding for the activities of district, municipal, private and state medical institutions and medical centres, so that they have predictability for their financial resources throughout the year. The number of directions is also increased in order to eliminate the lack of directions, if in 2017 there is one and the administrative capacity of the Casa is improved with the establishment of a Directorate for Analysis of Trends in the Work of the Casa, which will allow more effective control and monitoring of health insurance costs, will help the Casa's work in budget planning for the next financial year. We believe that with the preparation of the new National Framework Treaty for 2020, with the changes you voted in Parliament and with the establishment of the National Health Information System, we will ensure efficiency and better control in the work of the Casa and in the joint work between the Ministry and the Casa as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Minister. Dear colleagues, I will read you the draft decision. Project! DECISION adopting the Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2017 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2017 Please, voting mode. Vote 96 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members, we continue with a next item on the agenda: HEARING THE MINISTER OF THE ECONOMIC ON THE BASIS. 113 OF THE RULES ON THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON DEVELOPMENTS AND PERSPECTIVES FOR ECONOMIC GROWTH OF BULGARIAN ECONOMIC ECONOMICS. The representatives of the National Assembly are Daniela Saveklieva and Delyan Dobrev on 22 February 2019. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u59	Dear Madam President, dear Minister Karanikolov, honourable colleagues! In the past 2018, among the most discussed economic topics was the decline in the flow of foreign direct investment. This led to preliminary data from BNB, according to which the net flow of direct investments in the country for the period January-November 2018, reported in relation to the principle of the initial direction of the investment, amounted to 795.4 million. EUR, which is 1.4% of gross domestic product, with less than 549.7 million. EUR compared to January-November 2017 It is worth noting that BNB's forecasts are being made periodically and therefore I would like to remind you that in 2017 it was also said that investments have decreased. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty, lv. But let's go back to the previous 2018. The forecast for the reinvested profit of foreign investors in the country increased markedly in 2018. By the end of November it amounted to nearly 193 million. EUR at nearly 96 million. EUR for 2017. The biggest net flows of direct investment in the country for the period come from the Netherlands, Germany and Belgium. Today again, representatives of the opposition voice their concern and give criticism to the economic team of the government, but once again they are not present in the Chamber where it is place to present their concerns and to receive an adequate response. In this regard, dear Mr. Karanikolov, we have requested today's hearing. Please provide us with the current information about the levels of investment in Bulgaria and the prospects for development to the Bulgarian economy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I will remind you of the order in which such hearings are carried out. They are based on art. 113 of our rules: The National Assembly or the committees elected by it may hold hearings on matters affecting state or public interests. (2) When the National Assembly shall proceed to the hearing, the proposer of the hearing shall make a statement of the questions within five minutes. The persons heard shall inform the National Assembly of the questions to be heard within 10 minutes. Each of the parliamentary groups shall be entitled to two questions, and the MPs who do not belong to a parliamentary group shall be entitled to one question in total, each matter within two minutes to the individual persons heard. Hearing persons shall be responsible after asking each question. Parliamentary groups shall have the right to express their views on the answers of the persons heard within five minutes of asking all questions. Dear Minister, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Allow me, first, to thank you for the opportunity for this hearing and to present to you the following statement: I would like to start by saying that during the entire past 2018 there has been talk of foreign direct investments shrinking. Preliminary data were quoted by the Bulgarian National Bank, which we all know is subject to update and revision for 15 months after the end of the reporting period. It has already been mentioned here that the same was happening throughout 2017. There were talks, preliminary data came out, but eventually the final data came out. In 2017, there was an increase in foreign direct investment by more than 380 million. Euros. That's final. I note that this happened for about six months, because before that there were elections in Bulgaria. You know that when there are elections, investors wait to see if there will be the necessary political environment to inspire them to invest in the particular country. During the past week new data came out of BNB, which, I am paying attention to, is again a preliminary opinion. They showed that foreign direct investments for 2018 not only are not less than the previous but have increased by a little over 10% in one year. Foreign direct investments in Bulgaria last year amounted to 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. EUR, which is 10,3% or just over 143 million. EUR more than the investments made in the period January-December 2017 amounting to 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that However, let us remember how the year began. The first weeks came up information that the investments for 2018 were by 2.2% more than those for 2017. About four weeks ago, information came out that the investments in Bulgaria for 2018 were 40% less than those in 2017. Now these indicators come out, but they are preliminary ones. It is interesting, however, why, when they are positive, no one takes them into account and does not pay attention to it. I think you should say the positive thing. Moreover, since 2016, there has been a positive trend for increasing the levels of foreign direct investment. The data for 2017 and 2018 are subject to revision by BNB in the coming months, which I correctly said just now. Direct foreign investments are not only positive, but it is particularly important to indicate their structure. In the processing industry they are 60% of net foreign direct investments for 2017 and 66% for 2018. Investments in the processing industry are projects with a long-term horizon and a sustainable beneficial impact on regions and economic development. Since capital investments in production are high, the increase in these investments is an indicator of successful policy in this area. Promotion of Bulgaria as an investment destination with developed industrial base and traditions, qualified labour and suitable for incentives for investment affects the strategic intentions of investors to establish in Bulgaria. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that our legislation, which I thank the National Assembly, is indeed almost one to one, like all other countries, and indeed this is favourable to our environment. The positive trend for growth of investments is also confirmed by the increased interest in Bulgaria and as an investment destination, which takes into account mainly in the activities related to automotive production and ICT-related information and communication technologies, the sector. Currently, more than 220 companies are working in the automotive industry in Bulgaria producing components for all major world car manufacturers. The past year was one of the most successful for the auto-moto industry in Bulgaria and, along with the ICT sector, the automotive sector became a leading sector in the country. Their development is extremely positive and increasingly dynamic. In the last three years alone in the automotive sector, the total amount of investment so far has been paid attention to only certified projects or in the process of certification, for more than 480 million. lv. Over 7800 jobs have been opened. It is an extremely positive trend that last year a large part of the investments were made in high imbalance areas mostly in Northern Bulgaria. Investors find regions and cities as attractive destination, such as Vidin, Vratsa, Botevgrad, Ruse, Pleven, Lovech, where leading companies open factories for automotive parts and others and create over 3000 jobs. We started 2019 with the announcement of a new investment in Vratsa. A German company will build a $22 million factory there. lv. and new 300 jobs will be opened with an option to reach 1,000. The company is leading in the area of data transfer decisions and decisions for the automotive industry. I pay attention, it has already come out in the public domain that Vratsa is talking about another big investment for about 100 million. lv. Unfortunately, my meeting with investors is tomorrow, so I still can't say positive news, but it will be reflected. The Ministry of Economy monitors the development of the sectors with policies to promote investment in the industries, supports the establishment of new foreign companies in Bulgaria and the growth of existing domestic and foreign enterprises in the country. An important indicator of investor confidence is the subsequent repeated expansion of production capacities of a large number of foreign companies. I will not quote their names, if you wish, this reference will be provided to you. It should also be borne in mind that data on foreign direct investments do not take into account the increase in investments in enterprises with Bulgarian capital ownership and the expansion of foreign investments already existing in the country. This is not reported by the indicators of BNB. Conclusion on the real economic activity in the country and the amount of production capital of local and foreign businesses can be made on the basis of endemic indicators reported by national statistics. In order to measure the economic effect of investments, the National Statistical Institute shall monitor and take into account the measures for investments in the economy, the gross formation of fixed capital and the costs for the acquisition of fixed tangible assets which show an upward trend. An increase in economic activity and expansion of production capacity by local and foreign operators is reported. In addition, the Commission notes that the restructuring plan does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. BGN, i.e. 20.7% of gross domestic product according to preliminary data of the National Statistical Institute, which is 2 billion. More than last year. Our expectations in 2019 are that investments will continue to rise. Proof of this are the projects which are in the process of certification in the Bulgarian Agency for Investment. At present, there are 54 investment projects in the process of certification worth less than 1 billion. 500 million. lv. with the potential to open up more than 6,000 jobs. Regarding the trend for the development of the Bulgarian economy, the following information will be presented: According to expert assessments of the National Statistical Institute, the economic growth in Bulgaria for the fourth quarter of 2018 is 3.1%. We note that when publishing the preliminary results in gross domestic product will be better and we believe that this will be the case for the whole of 2018, and the nominal expression of gross domestic product to reach 108 billion. lv. For the current year 2019, the main indicators in the autumn macroeconomic forecast show the preservation of the envisaged economic growth and is expected to reach more than 3%. The growth engine will be consumption and investment. In addition, I would say that in the last two years gross domestic product has been increasing gradually, and the calculations show that by the end of this government's mandate it can reach and even exceed 130 billion. lv. In terms of the socio-economic situation related to the labour market, positive trends are also observed. The unemployment rate in the country fell to 6.4% in January 2019, compared to 11.8% in 2013. According to the latest forecast of the Ministry of Finance, unemployment in the country in 2019 will drop to 4.8 per cent and next 2020. Up to 4,3%. We should note that such low levels of unemployment are already creating a difficulty for business in finding labour and we are taking measures to deal with the problems. Positive trends are also supported by industry growth. In 2018, the average increase in total industrial production was 7.4 percentage points and the processing industry had 12.2 percentage points compared to 2015. The growth and turnover of enterprises in 2018 in the industry are almost 20 percentage points higher than 2015. To conclude, I would like to stress that we are also expecting stable economic growth above the European Union average in this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u62	Thank you, dear Minister. Let's start with the questions. The first question will be asked by the parliamentary group of GERB. Here you are, Mr. Boychev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! From what you have submitted as information, we see that there is a drastic increase in foreign investment for 2018. This, by the way, which you have noted, has collapsed a myth that has been circulation throughout 2018 by BSP colleagues that has dramatically decreased these investments. We see that they have sustainable growth, which is very important, and that they will continue in 2019. The Ministry's priority, which results in attracting these investments, is improving the business environment and thus attracting them. The development of industrial zones is also very important to us because they are also a prerequisite for attracting such investors. They are also a prerequisite for their smoother distribution into the territory of the state. As you have noted, there are poorly developed areas where there is great interest in investing in enterprises. My question is: at what stage is the development of these industrial zones? How will their development possibly continue? What is the potential for attracting such foreign investors to these areas by region in 2019? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Mr. Karanikolov, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thanks again for the question, it is extremely important. Industrial zones are very important for the development and business climate in Bulgaria. I'll give you information from today, but just to note that the data is preliminary. In recent years it has been shown that there is an increase in investment and this needs to be taken into account. Once again, I thank the National Assembly, the legislative body, because thanks to your work last year, two major investments took place in Northern Bulgaria. You know, I've thanked you and I keep thanking you. If we have other topics, I will rely on your cooperation. The development of industrial economic zones is among the most important priorities of the Ministry of Economy within the framework of the government programme adopted by the cabinet. The creation of new industrial zones such as those in Stara Zagora, Kardzhali and Svishtov as for Kardzhali open a clamp and in a moment I will say additional things is important for attracting investment, creating jobs, raising living standards and overcoming regional imbalances. That's our primary objective. For the past year only "National company industrial zones" where the mother is, the hat has more than 170 requests from investors. I would like to point out that a national industrial zones company is first profitable in 2018. This has never happened before, for which I thank the workers and the management body. In the past ten years since the establishment of the company, there have been real investments of more than 550 million. lv. and nearly 2,500 jobs, and now intensive negotiations are underway with nearly 20 potential investors for about 160 million. lv. and the opening of more than 1000 jobs. In order to continue this trend, we are working to create new areas and to expand the existing ones in close contact with the mayors and regional governors, to whom I also very much thank you. I have exceptional cooperation on their part. In Burgas, for example, where there is a successful project with the municipality, preliminary and final contracts with 35 investors have already been signed. For the past 2018, 7 preliminary and 5 final contracts were concluded in the Industrial and Logistic Park of Burgas. This year was also the first digging of a plant to repair aircraft parts of the area. The company's industrial project is worth 30 million. the dollar, combining scientific and development and production. By the end of 2019, more than 200 new jobs are expected to be opened. I would like to draw attention to the fact that since the area in Burgas is already filled, today the Council of Ministers has decided that additional terrains of about 600 acres should also be included in the area, so that these 35 investors are welcome. I hope that they will benefit from what Bulgaria provides to them. There are terrains with nearly exhausted areas, and what I'm telling you is also present in other areas like this. Working on expansion of areas with new municipal or state terrains. For this purpose, changes have been made to the State Property Act, for which I thank you once again. They were not meant to circumvent the Privatization Act, but were precisely for this thing to be imported from the state into mixed companies between the state and the municipality properties. Thank you for accepting this thing as well. We hope that by spring procedures for the acquisition of land from the Industrial and Logistic Park of Burgas will be implemented, something that I told you is happening and already there is a technological process, but I am sure that the municipality will hurry and cooperate. At the moment, the terrain there will be over 800 thousand. kv. M. Since last year the industrial zone in Stara Zagora is being implemented, and there is already interest from five Bulgarian companies, several Chinese and one Indian company. I hope that they will also like Bulgaria as a destination, although the competition is extremely serious. Together with the municipality of Stara Zagora on 27 December 2018, the company acquired 50% of the share of the company's shares in the Industrial Zone. Pre-project research is currently under way. The construction of an internal infrastructure for which the state has already provided money is imminent. Other new projects of the National Company are the implementation of an industrial zone in Kardzhali. Several times I have already had the opportunity to go to Kardzhali and I call on the population there to decide whether to make an industrial zone or want to have an airport. Let them decide. I think both things can work and work extremely successfully, but this is a public decision. In the Industrial Zone Telish at the beginning of this year we signed a preliminary contract with an Austrian company in the machine building sector, which deals with the production of waste separation systems. It's the first investment in Tellish, so that's where things are going. Once we have a first investor, I'm sure new ones will show up. Of course, there is the company's money to invest in infrastructure as well as in all areas. For Vratsa, I think I said thank you to the mayor and the governor. I think that very soon we will have two extremely serious investors there and I hope that there will be a workforce for them now. In the last month there is an increased interest in the areas in Vidin and in Ruse, which is also important. The latter is from a German company from the automotive industry, which is interested in positioning in Bulgaria. Svilengrad's been very interested in it for a while now. Only now there are more than five requests from foreign companies - Turkey, Greece, China and Scandinavia. The Bozhurishte Zone has agreed 1500 new jobs. There, of course, the main problem is what the Ministry of Economy will be dealing with this year to provide financial resources to build a continuation of the Tsaritsa Johanna "The boulevard of Lyulin" to enter the industrial zone so that we do not create problems for citizens in the settlement who have a problem with traffic, as the area is starting to work extremely well and will really have a problem. This is a priority for this year's Industrial Zone Bozhurishte. At the beginning of this year we already have a signed investor contract, which will enter Bozhurishte, as well as five preliminary contracts. The last year was definitely the most successful for the industrial zones in Bulgaria. I'm sure this one will be even more successful. I'll mark it right away and why. We are currently working with Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev's team for the next programming period, as a final beneficiary to be the state and municipal industrial zones so that they can receive money from EU funds to build their infrastructure. I think this is going to be very important for the zones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u66	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here comes the second question. It will be asked by the group of the United Patriarchs. Mrs. Nikolova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I have a question for you. Here you have pointed out how well the economic zones are developing and how much interest is in them. In the signed Agreement on the Management of the Country In Section 15 of the Economics Section, the following text is provided: "Support for the development of economic zones by financing measures to promote investment, for free transfer to ownership of the municipalities of military terrains with no need'. I want to ask you: has the process of transferring such terrain started and if it has started, where is it? Since you have pointed out in your statement that there is a shortage of terrain and very good development of economic zones, how is this commitment being implemented to us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u68	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u69	Thank you for your question. We receive absolutely complete cooperation from municipalities, from district managers, as well as from the Ministry of Defence. However, let us not forget that this is also done in previous years, i.e. the Ministry of Defence provides municipalities with areas that are devoid of necessity for the needs for attracting investors. Thank you very much for the question, because this is where I have to point out a problem and it is legislative. I'll report it to the Economic Commission. If I have your understanding, I will ask for your cooperation. I quote, not sure if it's accurate, but I think it's art. 54 of the State Property Act, which says that There's a serious problem coming up here right away. If the terrain is too large, there is not yet such a large investor, and the mayors are very heavily tied in the opportunity to sell the entire terrain. I'm going to say this one more time: if the terrain is extremely large, they have a ban on deportation to municipal companies. You know that this may be the best form to make a municipal company an industrial area where the state can enter with money through the National Industrial Zones. The mayors can't do it because of this text of the Law. I am not saying that there should be an opportunity to sell to anyone else, but to think about an opportunity that would give the mayors of municipalities the right when they received such a terrain from the Ministry of Defence. In truth, there are not few cases, but if you notice, these terrains are deserted precisely for this reason............................ to give them the right in the Law to make municipal companies with only one precise function...................................... to attract investors, namely industrial zones. I will prepare such a text and will be submitted through the Council of Ministers. If you think it's right, support it. Because at the moment many of the plots provided by the Ministry of Defence, precisely for the reason that they are limited by one text, that they should be given directly to an investor, but, unfortunately, not all investors can take such a large area........................................................................ Otherwise, we have full cooperation. As of now, the Ministry of Defense continues to transfer such properties. I would mention that they have one building in Sofia Tech Park, in Sofia they have one in many other places. That's what the Tellish unit is like. We've already found an investor there. I hope there will be others soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u70	Thank you, dear Minister. There is a question from the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Mrs. Shevked, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, I'm not satisfied with the check you made about the Kardzhali Industrial Zone. I would like to clarify one fact, which is also important to know from colleagues that there are two industrial industrial zones with exact capacity of the terrains, in Kardzhali, 274 652 thousand. kv. m. This is about the famous airport in Kardzhali, which is still an airport. The problem is, you know very well that this airport currently has the ambitions to be turned into an industrial area. My question is: what is required to destroy this facility; do you have estimates of how much it will cost the state as a cost change in purpose, design; will these costs be calculated when offered to the future investor; how long will the change of this facility be carried out completely to be destroyed, to become an industrial area, with the presence of two at present in the municipality of Kardzhali on the ground, located at around 275 thousand. kv. M, provided that the estimated demolition airport at this stage is somewhere around 10 decares? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Shevked. Dear Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u73	Thanks for asking. I hinted at Kardzhali. A year and a half ago, I had the same case in Stara Zagora. I had several meetings there with the public, with the municipal council, with the mayor, there were also 50-50 whether the industrial area should be in the place of the existing airport or otherwise, and different opinions were heard. Then I said to the mayor, "You have to decide that." I think I say the same here in Kardzhali. There are two industrial zones, I agree. But if more investors come, we shouldn't be chasing them. But I think the public in Kardzhali can make that decision. Whether we invest in an industrial zone or at the airport, which I apologize for saying this, but it is in a very difficult state because it is not the airport that we imagine will also have costs for the state. The point is, when you invest in an industrial zone, you do it now when you have, say, a particular investor, you know what his investment will be. If we go to invest in an airport before we have an investor, let's not make one monument. That's what worries me. The Ministry of Economy will respect what the Kardzhali community wants. Because they are there mayor, governor of the district should sit down and for the benefit of society to solve this problem. The money for both an industrial zone and an airport will then be entered into the account of each investor. I don't see any problem with making a zone, developing existing areas, and having an airport, and I'm still going to say that this isn't the airport we're imagining, it can be a logistical base. But the point is that money should not be invested in something that we do not have security in. I will work and you know that I am working and looking for investors as well as for an airport, because in Stara Zagora we continue to have an airport that was once extremely valuable for the military, of course. It's also been transferred from the military, but at the moment I can't find an airport operator, that's my problem. And we already have a request from the municipality to provide terrains from this airport to an industrial area. At the moment nothing is being done, but if we find an investor in this sector, I'm first, especially if we're going to make airplane parts, drones or whatever, it doesn't have to be what we imagine as an airport, I'm the first to support this thing. But the district manager and the mayor can see what's going on there and what's the public interest. That's all that matters. Otherwise investors for Kardzhali and now there is interest and you know it. I think the region is developing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u74	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Next is a question from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodolists. Mr. Netsov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u75	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! The Bulgarian Presidency passed, in general, very well. However, one part of the House does not approve of some of its actions, another part welcomed this. A priority, of course, was the Balkans, and much was achieved there. But I am interested in how the Bulgarian foreign economic relations between Bulgaria and the countries in the European Union develop after the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of Europe. Please provide some specific data, if you have any. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u76	Thank you, Mr. Netsov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u77	Thank you for your question. I'll speak from a personal capacity. For me, the Presidency has been extremely successful, and I will say it from how I felt. At first we were shrunk, insecure, perhaps our colleagues were looking a little weirder................... they didn't trust us in Bulgaria. After the Presidency was completed, this changed. I definitely feel that at every meeting with both the commissioners and my colleagues from the Council we have had. Just the attitude towards Bulgaria has changed. We were greeted and not formally. I even talk about meetings during meetings of the decisions of Bulgaria. Here is the moment to congratulate the team of the Bulgarian Presidency, not so much ministers. The team in Brussels and the people in Sofia who worked on this Presidency have done my assessment brilliantly. They achieved this to raise Bulgaria's image as a truly accurate, clear and extremely correct partner. And from now on, this for us only leads to positives. With concrete examples I can tell you to third countries. You mentioned the Western Balkans, but I personally led two boards of commerce and competitiveness. In trade councils, our priorities were to conclude free trade agreements here are Japan, Singapore, New Zealand, Australia, perhaps I will miss some. And now so far, including yesterday was the ambassador of New Zealand, who is from Brussels and is for here, is extremely grateful to Bulgaria. Bulgaria has placed this agenda and we have moved many of these topics forward. So now we are offered to make a business forum there, absolutely everything. From this point of view, the Presidency was excellent for me and really raised the image of the Bulgarian state. And we don't have to say that it was weak, on the contrary, we made an extremely good Presidency, you might ask everyone to compare it to the last and current presidencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u78	Thank you, Mr. Karanikolov. We'll continue with the questions. The parliamentary group of GERB has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Mihowski.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u79	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! In relation to the great public interest, we would ask you to present to us how the implementation of the Operational Programme is going.Innovation and competitiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u80	Thank you, Mr. Mihowski. Mr. Karanikolov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I admit that I expected this question, it is always asked and it is up to date, for which I thank you, because indeed the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" is one of the successful programs. I would like to start by saying that from the beginning of the Operational Programme "Innovation and competitiveness" a total of 2 thousand has been concluded. 42 contracts, including financial agreements with the Fund of Managers of Financial Instruments in Bulgaria. With a total grant of one billion and 900 million. lv. the funds are provided under Axis 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. As of 15 February 2019, 11 procedures have been announced for granting grants through a specific selection of 13 procedures for direct granting of grants and 7 budget lines. The total amount of EUR 2,220 million of the announced procedures and financial agreements is EUR 2,220 million. BGN, which is 86.03 per cent of the budget of the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness". 724 grant contracts are implemented, and at the moment the completed and completed payments are 1252 contracts. The payments made to date amount to more than 961 million. BGN, nearly one billion leva, which represents 37.22% of the budget of the programme, including 115 million. lv. for financial instruments. An application procedure is now open for the implementation of production capacity in small and medium-sized enterprises with a budget of 75 million. EUR for which there is really exceptional interest. Within a short period of time, the Ministry of Economy plans to announce for public discussion procedures for innovative clusters, which aims to support their development, with the planned budgets of 15 million. Euros. As a result of the funds transferred from the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" until May, we plan to announce a procedure within which the development of regional innovation centres is supported. This is an extremely interesting procedure and there is great interest in mayors, regional managers, business and science, as we are trying through this program to really create synergies between business and science, as there is not much dialogue in the last 30 years. And I hope that this will be a good platform from now on, even if there are no such European procedures, science and business work. The procedure provides for nearly 60 million. Euros. Another procedure, which is also highly interested in enterprises and planned for 2019, is stimulating the deployment of innovations by existing enterprises with a budget again of 60 million. Euros. For the end of the year, we have provided for a procedure for which there is really exceptional interest to be announced within the framework of Priority Axis 2 of OPEC and aimed at digitization of small and medium-sized enterprises, and the size here is 30 million. Euros. Through this procedure we believe that we will respond to the timely trends for development of the business environment in Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u82	Thank you, dear Minister. The next are the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and they are absent. Here you are, dear Mrs. Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! I'm taking occasion from your statement. I'm going back to the industrial areas that you said were developing very quickly, but hopefully we'll find labor. Given the statistic reports that show record low unemployment, growth in incomes and despite all the great shortage of labour that employers face, how do you consider as Minister of Economy that you can deal with this problem and what solutions would you suggest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u84	Thank you, dear Mrs. Nikolova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u85	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me first start by saying that although there is a lot of talk when investors come to the Ministry of Economy, they do not talk about corruption. Their main theme is the provision of a workforce. This is for foreign investors as well as Bulgarian investors. Given the increased interest in Bulgaria as an investment destination by potential foreign investors and the increased investment activity of Bulgarian enterprises in certain cases there is a lack of specialists mainly engineers and employees with secondary and higher technical education. Since this topic does not concern only the Ministry of Economy, here I also thank my colleagues from the Ministry of Education and from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, with which we work to provide the specialists needed for business in several directions. Academic programs of universities and secondary technical schools are linked to the needs of business. According to the latest data of the Ministry of Education and Science in the country there are 168 vocational secondary schools where students are trained in technical specialities, the total number of students in this year is 30 368. The number of graduates of vocational education in 2018 is 5650. The number of students at the technical universities who completed their education in 2017 and 2018 is 3220 Bachelors and 1658 Masters respectively. In this academic year the number of graduates will be 3943 Bachelors and 3371 Masters respectively. It is important to have a good policy as a vision for development to be used by educational institutions and businesses to go hand in hand and to show the best things. The Ministry of Economy has launched a campaign that we will soon announce aimed at parents to stimulate dual learning so that the education system can meet the demand for investors. Why are we doing this? I asked one of the sociological agencies to do a study on whether the Bulgarians understand what a dual education is and do they think it should be invested in it. Of 1300 persons asked, 64% say: "We don't know what dual education is, 10% do not care, others say they know them, but notice, 84% say that the state should invest in it. Dual training is a system in which students can go to production enterprises on certain days and actually learn the craft there to use this word. Unfortunately, we talk a lot about dual training, but it does not reach the parents. That is why we are considering the campaign being directed primarily at parents, because students are still children. Yes, in Bulgaria children are always children, but really this campaign will be aimed at students and parents precisely because of this imbalance over 60% of the Bulgarians do not know what is a dual education. The main question investors ask when choosing a land for their investment is whether they have quality labour? For this reason, in addition to the active introduction of dual training, it is also necessary to set up requalification centres to meet demand. This is what we intend to create in all state industrial zones at the moment, and I think municipalities will also accept this proposal. I would personally suggest that a class of entrepreneurship be envisaged in schools, because we've been missing this a little bit in the model for the last 30 years. The policy of the Ministry of Economy in the process of introducing dual training is aimed at overcoming the shortage of qualified labour for enterprises and reducing youth unemployment in Bulgaria. The ministry is involved in cooperation with the other two ministries that I mentioned in implementation of the project "Swiss Support for the introduction of the principles of dual education" or so-known DOMINO. The project ended in 2018, with the results of it being very encouraging to include 1600 students in training through work, 32 professional high schools and 170 enterprises involved in this project. Thanks to the continuation of dual training, young people start working in priority sectors of the economy and in those in which business is having difficulty finding employees. The Ministry of Economy leaves the regulation of the participation of the business in the process of preparing the curriculum for dual training. An important measure with which the Ministry of Economy is involved is the preparation of a regulation for the creation and maintenance of an information database of employers that meet the requirements for carrying out training through work. The Regulation will lay down the conditions and arrangements for the inclusion of undertakings in the information database and the circumstances to be entered. The inclusion of employers in the information database will be voluntary and no payment of a state fee will be required by employers. The employers' information database will be public and accessible. Opportunity to attract work in the country of representatives of Bulgarian minorities abroad. With the changes in the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, made over the last two years, the regime for access to the labour market of foreigners has been significantly alleviated by third-country nationals, in particular Bulgarian minorities mainly from Ukraine and Moldova. Of course, I think we have a lot of extra work to do. The limit on the number of workers from third countries to 10% of the average composition of a Bulgarian enterprise in the previous 12 months was changed to 20% and for small and medium-sized enterprises to 35%. There is an opportunity for persons of Bulgarian origin to engage without a work permit after their employer has registered with the Employment Agency until a residence permit is granted. The requirement to conduct a market test for the issue of a Blue Card has also been removed. Once again: on this topic we have a lot of work, because if what happens in the good scenario, i.e. the Bulgarian economy to develop with investors, the problem of employment will become bigger and then we will be able to talk about overheating of the economy, which we should not allow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u86	Thank you, dear Minister. Second question from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? I won't. From the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Rhodolyptics, is there a second question? You won't either. The attitude of the given answers from the parliamentary group of GERB, come in, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I thank you for the exhibition and for the answers you have given to our questions. I do see the effort you and your team have made. Congratulations on that! But the most important thing is that these efforts result and we see what a sustainable growth and positive trend our economy has developed, respectively attracting foreign investors, because this, naturally, is at the heart of the development of the state as well. I regret that BSP colleagues are gone because I think this is the place to debate the development of the economy, respectively, on the development of the state. But indeed what we have heard, I would say it is a cause for pride and, God forbid, that our economy will develop in the coming years. I would like to draw attention to something very important that you have said that you have very good communication with the mayors and with the regional governors, which is really very important for you to speak in the same language. This is indicative that the government of GERB does not distinguish from what political affiliation a mayor is given and the local government accordingly. I wish you a fruitful year ahead of you and to constantly increase the growth of the economy as well as attracting investors! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Attitude should also be taken by the BSP parliamentary group, but they are absent. Come in from the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs. You have the floor, Mr. Kolev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u89	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! We have 10% corporate tax, but we have not seen investors jump to invest in Bulgaria. We have serious problems and we need to analyze them, namely you need to analyze them, this is a positive advice to you, and it is good to do it as quickly as possible. It's nice for you to go through an investment process from.... to. There you will find out what administrative, purely bureaucratic, personnel problems there are in an investment process. Let's scan them, put them on the table and decide to create investment comfort, create this investment environment that investors want. I have personally spoken to several investors who are ready to invest more than 2 billion in Bulgaria. Euros. But there's no footage at the moment. Mr. Minister, I have taken the trouble of analyzing the movement of a foreign candidate to work in our enterprise. Horrible and insanity! It's impossible for him to come. This is where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy should be involved, but the economy has the most interest. In order to create this environment, we also need to supply investors with workers. You know what big automobile companies want to come to invest in us. It's the footage they're having a problem with. And now we're going to do this. I hope that you are ready to join such a serious group with these ministries will the group be working, how will we form it I do not know, but quickly bring out the problems: why can we not provide staff and we can not create an opportunity for the big investors who want to invest in Bulgaria to make these investments in Bulgaria? We have industrial zones, but you can see that one of the main issues is footage. The other question is the huge administrative burdens. I also have a recommendation to the small investors in Bulgaria. We've literally forgotten them. Directed to large investors coming, creating an environment, giving them an opportunity for industrial zones, but small investors also have their investment problems, problems with administrative burdens and all other obstacles that do not allow them to unfold, and the opportunities to invest in Bulgaria are even more than from abroad. We must create such investment opportunities for them as well. Is it possible to analyze the problems in the economic sphere, the inability to make the respective investment quickly and seamlessly, where are the obstacles in which the?s to do this analysis, if necessary together to help, so that we can untie the hands of the small business, of the medium business, of the big investors, to fill the industrial zones, not to wait for them to come, but to race to come. This is our task to create business conditions. I hope we can do something together with you to create a better environment for business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u90	Thank you, Mr. Kolev. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, come in, dear Mrs. Shevked.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I take your answer to my question, as far as I am not satisfied that you are transferring the attitude, the decision to exist between the district governor and the mayor of Kardzhali municipality. I understand. In fact, you were not aware when you were given the plot to which the airport was located, that in Kardzhali beings industrial zone, and were misled by the district governor. As a member of parliament from Kardzhali and as a Kardzhali, I remember how this airport worked, as I am of sufficient age to have memories that there was activity at this airport. From another point of view, I remember that there was once a project to expand the airport itself with the idea of performing civilian flights so that tourists aimed at Pamporovo could use the airport in Kardzhali. I give you this example: neighbouring Greece, 70 km from Kardzhali, there is an airport located in Keramoti, in Komotini, in Alexandroupolis. What prevents the Bulgarian state, respectively you, with the Minister of Transport and with the Minister of Tourism to make a working group, to assess what are the opportunities for investment in this airport for its increase and to develop further tourism? Right now, I'm not saying we don't need investors, but our program for Kardzhali and the region is a little longer. We believe that things should be developed that were done years ago, and instead of destroying, let's build. I appeal to you to make a working group from the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Transport, to specify what are the investment opportunities in this airport, how much will be necessary and what return can we really expect from this airport? Industrial zones, like I said, we already have them. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u92	Thank you, dear Mrs. Shevked. Attitude on behalf of the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodophilists? You won't, you won't. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u93	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Once again, thank you for the opportunity to be heard before you. Thank you! Regarding employment issues, I think I've given an answer. I said a lot of things have been done, but it's not everything. There is still much to be done and we are currently analyzing these particular problems. About bureaucracy, that is, administrative burdens. Therefore, in the first hearing on the topic of Industrial Zones, I said that we should define as many efficient industrial zones as possible, because they will have PSUs, including partial EIAs. If we can reach what they are doing in the Czech Republic and Hungary, we will also have preliminary contracts for gas, water, electricity that is our goal. We are talking about administrative burdens, but when someone likes it, figuratively speaking, a property in the field 6 km from the main road, of course there will be administrative burdens. First, we need to build the road, second, there needs to be a change of status. It's a law thing. That is why I say that we should analyse exactly where the industrial zones in Bulgaria will be, it is not so difficult. We are currently putting in existing private, public, municipal, it is nice to put in before 1989, where proceedings have been developed, it is planned, we can easily get it and then there will be no administrative burdens. Administrative burdens are when someone likes a field because of a price due to functionality, which is somewhere... nowhere, I say the most. On the topic of "Kardzhali" the district governor and the mayor drive the plane. I do not refuse to help them, but once again I say, there is no way the state will intervene and say: here is an airport! I would if I had a cameraman if I knew I wouldn't make a monument. If the mayor and the governor are gonna fly the plane, we're gonna do it, and I'm gonna accept the proposal, and we're gonna make a working group, but we're gonna chase if big, good investors show up in the meantime... Thanks for understanding. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-27.u94	Thank you, Dear Minister, for your participation today, thank you for your comprehensive answers. Ladies and gentlemen, next regular plenary session on 28 February 2019, from 9.00 in accordance with the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
