ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-07.u1	We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Mr. Kanev's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-07.u2	Colleagues, under procedure, I have a proposal for item four of today's agenda to be dropped. We are the leading committee on the point of yesterday's unanimous decision that the bill must be completed. Therefore, my request is that we vote to postpone item four and to remove it from the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-07.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Colleagues, I ask that we vote on the proposal for the second vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on Stock Exchanges and Trades to drop out of our Work Programme from the agenda. Vote 173 MPs: for 169, no objection, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I propose that a decision be adopted on the basis of art. 48, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly as follows: The National Assembly shall hold an extraordinary plenary session on 12 November 2019, Tuesday, at 1300 on the following agenda: 1. First vote on the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020, with an importer of the Council of Ministers. 2. First vote on the 2020 State Social Security Budget Bill. Please, voting mode. They voted 177 MPs: 133, against 12, abstention 32. The motion is accepted. I'll introduce you to a few messages: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria shall inform the National Assembly that: 1. In implementation of the bilateral co-operation plan between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia in 2019 between 7 and 14 November 2019 will take place flights of military aircraft from the members of the Air Force of the Republic of Serbia to the Military Formation Count Ignatevo and vice versa. In this regard, he has authorised the passage and residence of aircraft, military and engineering personnel from the armed forces of the Republic of Serbia on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The conduct of flights is not related to the conduct of military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the carrying out of activities to prevent military activities conducted by other (other country or organisation) armed forces. 2. In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and stay on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces by its order authorised the passage through the territorial sea and the non-military residence in the inland waters and the visit of the port of Varna for the period from 4 to 6 November 2019 including the Second Permanent Group of Battleships of NATO, including vessels of the Naval Forces of the Republic of Italy, Romania and the Kingdom of Spain. The visit is of a non-military nature, related to the safety of the ships and is determined by the low nautical capacity of the fireships and the expected deterioration of the time during that period. The notifications were received on 6 November 2019 with input numbers 902-00-71 and 902-00-72 and submitted to the Defence Committee. An audit report on the audit carried out by the Father for the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 was received in the National Assembly with an Opinion of the Court of Auditors on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available in the Library of the National Assembly. Under the Fiscal Council Act and automatic corrective mechanisms in the National Assembly, an Opinion of the Fiscal Council on Draft Law on the Budget of State Social Security for 2020. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and was available in the Library of the National Assembly. We begin the examination of the first point of our program for today: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR SAFE USE OF NUCLEAR ENERGY, WITH THE INSTALLATION OF THE Council OF Ministers. Mr. Nikolov, you have the floor to introduce us to the Energy Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-07.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber the following persons from the Nuclear Regulatory Agency: Deyana Dosieva
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-07.u5	I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission made in this House. Vote 172 MPs: 164, no objection, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Please continue, dear Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-07.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy, No 902-01-46, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2019 At its regular meeting held on 10 October 2019, the Energy Commission discussed and voted on the bill referred to above. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Energy: Marina Kadreva, Chief Expert at the Department of Energy Supply and Crisis Management (AIA) and by the Agency for Nuclear Regulation (AIA): Alexey Aleksiev, Vice-President of the Agency, Teodora Ribarska, Secretary General, and Deana Dosieva, Director of the Directorate of Radio Protection. The bill was presented by Mr. Alexey Aleksiev, Vice-President of the AYAR, who explained the main amendments and additions made in implementation of Decision No 704 of the Council of Ministers in relation to reducing the administrative burden of persons who combine activities under the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy. The areas where amendments are proposed shall be as follows: - Requirements for the removal of irregularities in the submitted applications for licences and authorisations are proposed. - Significant amendments to Chapter Six and Chapter Eight of the Law concerning areas of special status and emergency planning areas are proposed. The aim is to limit the administrative burden, avoiding the ambiguities of the understanding currently existing by the licensees, in applying the requirements of these two chapters of the Law. The requirements relating to the so-called special status areas, which essentially overlap with emergency planning areas, to be placed in their systematic place in the text of the Law. - Amendments to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine are proposed, which is also related to limiting the administrative burden. It is proposed to waive the current requirement for coordination by the Nuclear Regulatory Agency, as in wholesale trade with radiopharmaceuticals is outside the competence of the Chair of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency. - Another amendment proposed is for the implementation of technical supervision of plants with increased danger on the territory of a nuclear power plant, brought into line with the ten-year-old practice of the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy and the Law on Technical Requirements for Products. - The next area of amendment is related to the Health Act. It is proposed that the Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy should also be amended in the Health Act concerning a clearer distinction between the powers and competences of the Ministry of Health and the Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency. These proposals stem from a mission of the International Atomic Energy Agency carried out three years ago. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote held, the Energy Committee, with 17 votes for...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-07.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. You have the floor to brief us on the Internal Security and Public Order Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-07.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll introduce you to: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy, No 902-01-46, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2019. At its meeting on 6 November 2019, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy, No 902-01-46, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2019. The meeting was attended by the Nuclear Regulatory Agency: Alexey Nikolayev Aleksiev, Vice-President of AYAR, Teodora Kuncheva Ribarska, Chief Secretary, Deyana Stoyanova Dosieva, Director of the Radiation Protection Directorate and Director of the Ministry of Interior: Director of the General Directorate of Fire Safety and Protection of the Population and Commissioner General Nikolay Nikolov and Senior Commissioner Aleksandar Jartov. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Alexei Nikolov Aleksiev. In his statement, he noted that the proposed amendments to the Bill were implemented by Council of Ministers Decision No 704 adopting measures to transform the model of administrative service. The main objective of the proposed changes is to reduce the administrative burden on enterprises that operate nuclear facilities and use sources of ionising radiation; to refine the wordings relating to areas of special status; to optimise the application of the European Union's uniform requirements in carrying out technical supervision of high-risk facilities on the territory of a nuclear power plant. In the implementation of the objectives set out, the Bill provides for the introduction of a time limit for the removal of irregularities in applications and documents for the issuance of administrative acts for the activities provided for in the Law. The requirement under art. 109, para. 4 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine to be repealed, as the power of the Chair of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency does not provide for the issuance of opinions on wholesale trade with radiopharmaceuticals. With the removal of Chapter Six, special status zones and the amendment of Chapter Eight, emergency planning and emergency preparedness will avoid ambiguities with regard to areas created for emergency planning and population protection purposes in the event of a nuclear or radiation accident. The specialized unit established in 1999 at the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" which has been entrusted with technical supervision to comply with the rules and standards for the safe operation of the supervisory facilities is proposed to adopt the status of the Department of Nuclear Power Plant to operate under the methodological guidance of the Chair of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency. The Bill also distinguishes responsibility for nuclear damage and provides financial protection to affected persons caused by a nuclear accident in a nuclear installation from non-nuclear damage caused by a source of ionizing radiation outside a nuclear installation and compensation for it is due in accordance with the general legal order. The new regulation is in line with the provisions of the Vienna Convention on Civil Liability in the event of nuclear damage. The requirements regarding areas created around nuclear facilities and objects with sources of ionising radiation for the purpose of emergency planning and protection of the population in the event of a nuclear or radiation accident shall be placed in their systematic place in order to avoid ambiguities and ambiguity in the application of the norms. A position on the draft was expressed by Chief Commissioner Nikolay Nikolov, stressing that the framework regulated in the Law, based on the IAEA standard, will improve the understanding of all participants in the process, will reduce the administrative burden for business and avoid the development of numerous external emergency plans, which, if they become integral part of the National Disaster Protection Plan, will turn it into an extremely clumsy and non-working document. Make it clear that it is necessary to have a broad discussion about the rule in force................................................................................................... The requirement to finance activities related to the external emergency plan implies a significant financial resource from many institutions involved in these processes. The necessary financial resources should be provided by the state budget. It underlined that a clear concept should be established with regard to emergency planning and emergency preparedness in order to achieve the effective operation of the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy. On the basis of the discussion held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 11 votes in favour, 1 vote in opposition and 4 votes in abstention proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a Draft amendment and supplement to the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy, No 902-01-46, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-07.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. You have the floor on the report of the Committee on Health, Mrs Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-07.u10	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy, No 902-01-46, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2019. At its regular meeting on 19 September 2019, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy, No 902-01-46, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Alexey Aleksiev, Vice-President of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency, Associate Professor Dr. Jana Jounova, Director of the National Centre for Radiobiology and Radiation Protection, Specialized Authority at the Ministry of Health, Mrs. Hristina Getova, Director of the Legal Directorate at the Ministry of Health; representatives of the word organizations in the field of health, patient organizations and others. The draft and the reasons for it were presented by Mr. Alexei Aleksiev, Vice-President of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency. He pointed out that the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy implements measures to change the model of administrative service approved by Council Decision No 704 of 5 October 2018, in order to align it with the Law on the limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business. § 14 of the Bill, in accordance with Decision No 704 of the Council of Ministers, is proposed art. 199, para. 4 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine to be repealed. The revocation shall be proposed in the light of the powers of the Chair of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency as defined in art. 5 of the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy, which does not provide for the issuance of opinions on wholesale trade with radiopharmaceuticals. A proposal to supplement the Health Act has been made by the Bill, with § 15 proposing the regulations under art. 65, para. 1, t. 3 and 6 of the Law relating to radiation protection in carrying out permitted activities shall be issued by the Minister of Health in agreement with the Chair of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency. In a written opinion to the Committee on Health, the Executive Director of the Executive Medicines Agency, Master Pharmacist Bogdan Kirilov, expressed a positive opinion on the bill in the part under § 14, proposing the annulment of art. 199, para. 4 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. In his written opinion, presented to the members of the Committee on Health, the Director of the National Centre for Radiobiology and Radiation Protection Associate Professor Jeana Jounova proposes that the text of § 15 of the Bill be dismissed. The reasons for this proposal are related to the competence of the Ministry of Health to conduct public health policy, including an assessment of the health risk to the population, including the application of appropriate radiation protection measures. The subject matter of the regulations issued in accordance with art. 65, para. 1, t. 3 and 6 of the Health Act falls outside the competence of the Chair of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency. However, in the event of a change of regulations, the Minister of Health shall, by order, establish a working group including a representative (s) of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: 14 votes for.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-07.u11	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. I don't see any speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy, No 902-01-46, tabled by the Council of Ministers. 135 MPs voted: 134, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Procedure, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-07.u12	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of the Rules of the National Assembly, I propose that the period between first and second readings be the maximum, i.e. three weeks. I'd like you to propose it for a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-07.u13	I see.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-07.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-07.u15	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 141 MPs: 138 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I will introduce you to the Parliamentary Control Communication on 8 November 2019, Friday, following the completion of the legislative part of the day: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova will answer a question from the MP Pavel Shopov and a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will answer two questions from the MPs Stanislav Stanilov and Pavel Shopov and two questions from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Alexander Simov. 3. Tourism Minister Nikolina Angelkova will answer two questions from the MPs Boris Yachev and Rumen Gechev. 4. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the MP Rumen Gechev. 5. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will answer two questions from the MPs Dora Yankova and Ivan Valentinov. 6. Interior Minister Mladen Marinov will answer four questions from the MPs Aleksandar Paunov, Lalo Kirilov, Krasimir Yankov and Desislav Chukolov. 7. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. 8. The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer two questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Nikolay Tishev. 9. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva will answer four questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov, Svetla Bachvarova, two questions, Georgi Yordanov and Irena Atanasova and one question from the National Representative Dora Yankova. 10. Economy Minister Emil Karanikolov will answer four questions from the MPs Nikolay Alexandrov, Hristo Prodanov, Georgi Gokov and Alexander Sabanov. 11. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov will answer two questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova, Georgi Gokov and one question from the National Representative Dora Yankova. 12. Culture Minister Boel Banov will answer a question from the National Representative Anton Kutev. 13. The Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer two questions from the MPs Veska Nencheva and Valentina Naydenova and Georgi Mihailov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question from the National Representative Hristo Prodanov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the reply to: - a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova; - a question from the National Representative Diana Savateva to the Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov and the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will not participate. The next regular plenary session is November 8 from 9.00 in accordance with the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
