ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u1	Hey, guys! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, the first point of the day is: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE PRIVIZATION LAW AND THE ADVISION CONTROL. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 22 May 2019. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, using that you are currently here, lest you leave before the beginning of parliamentary control. So I'm telling you what the procedure is.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u3	I'm not leaving. I'll be here.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u4	You'll be here, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u5	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u6	After all, I went out here not to go out again. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u7	Colleagues, please! Please! Let's say Mr. Ermenkov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u8	Madam President, we had issued a request to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria on an extremely important issue concerning the future of the economy, of energy and of all our energy security, which is an element of national security. We released it in connection with the problems with coal plants, which have both a social effect and various other aspects. You are returning it to us because you are probably unaware that the Prime Minister is personally involved with this problem. On 7 July 2017 he was one of the initiators of the meeting with the people of Stara Zagora and I am convinced that...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u9	Mr. Ermenkov, let me just stop you for a second.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u10	Madam President, it's for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u11	Let me interrupt. Please follow the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u12	Please, it's for you, it's for you to arrange. It's for you to line up...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u13	I'll answer you right away.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u14	...of parliamentary control and the return of this letter. I know I have the right to object, but I'm protecting you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u15	Within three days, you're right.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u16	Because you're embarrassing the Prime Minister right now. I am convinced that if he finds out about this question, he will come here and answer, given that he is a responsible person. You're doing him a bear favor right now. [[The President turns off the microphone. The MP continues to speak with the microphone off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u17	Mr. Ermenkov, thank you. You have the right to object within three days. I await your written objection to me. So at the moment, you are still within the time limit in which you have the right to object. I'll look into it and we'll talk again. Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. [[National Representative Tasco Ermenkov continues to speak with microphones off. Loud noise and banging on the banks from GERB.]] No, no! There are rules, Mr. Ermenkov. You'll have your chance. Thank you. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism to brief us on the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u18	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! To your attention, I present ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism on a Draft Law amending the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, No 902-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 May 2019. At its regular meeting on 5 June 2019, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. The Law, presented by Anatoly Velichkov, aims to reflect changes in the company names of "TEREM". Sofia and the Multiprofile Hospital for Long-term Treatment and Rehabilitation There is also the change in the authority exercising the rights of the state in the Ministry of Information and Communications, Sofia and the National Palace of Culture. The Ministry of Finance, both companies, the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Culture, respectively. The bill proposes to cancel the item. 7 and 8 of Section X The town of Sofia is added as a new item. 20 in Section II the Transport, Information Technology and Communications Department and the National Palace of Culture The Sofia Congress Centre was added as a new item. 16 in Section VI 3, para. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 13 votes for the draft, without the opposition and the abstention. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, No 902-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 May 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u19	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveklieva. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, No 902-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 May 2019. Vote 162 MPs: 162, no objection and no abstention. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Asked questions for the period 31 May 6 June 2019 from: - MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova to Desislava Taneva Responses should be made in plenary on 14 June 2019; - National Representative Anton Konstantinov Kutev to Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health on the readiness to respond to the health system in donor situations. Responses should be made in plenary on 14 June 2019; - National Representative Anton Konstantinov Kutev to Kiril Ananiev - Minister of Health on the policies of the Ministry of Health for the provision of blood and blood components. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 14 June 2019. Written responses were received from: - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Tanya Petrova. Colleagues, we are expecting Minister Karakachanov to come to the Chamber at any moment, so I will ask for some patience. You know that parliamentary control is short today because by decision of the Conference of Presidents at 12:00 there will be awards of graduates graduating from the Law Faculty of Sofia University. Colleagues, I'm taking five minutes off while we wait for the Secretary of Defense. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u20	Dear Members of Parliament, we are continuing with parliamentary control. Welcome to Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Karakachanov! The first question to Mr. Karakachanov was addressed by MP Tasco Ermenkov by the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security. It concerns investment expenditure of the Navy. Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, to develop your question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u21	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, the question I am asking you was formulated about ten days ago and somewhat duplicated what happened yesterday to the blitzcontrol in the Defence Committee. Given that this investment expenditure is voted here in the National Assembly, it concerns public resources and the interest of the whole society, I will also ask you from the parliamentary platform, and I would like to stress that in your reply I do not expect you to introduce me to details of offers and other things that could violate the legality of the procedure and cause doubts in its realization, but nevertheless what you think is necessary and you can inform us, I would be able to formulate it very briefly so: at what stage and what part of the project has been realized so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u22	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Here you are, Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u23	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ermenkov, honourable Members of the National Assembly! You are right, Mr. Ermenkov, yesterday at the blitzcontrol we discussed this issue and therefore I will skip part of the exhibition, which is prepared with the details, and I will concentrate on what you have specified. You know when the procedure started, you know what the solutions are, you know which companies are involved, and that's why I'm starting at the last stage. On 22 April 2019 at the Ministry of Defence at an open meeting the Interdepartmental Working Group opened technical proposals. Media representatives were invited to the opening of the tenders. After the opening of the technical proposals, the assessment is carried out according to a methodology established by me, developed by the command of the Navy with the assistance of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Defence Institute at the Ministry of Defence. The evaluation of the submitted offers will be carried out not only on the basis of the capabilities that the ships will have and the price at which they will be built, but also according to how their construction will contribute to increasing the competitiveness of the Bulgarian defence industry. You know that one of the two ships must be built in Bulgaria. This will be done by means of the parameters set out in the methodology under the indicator "Industrial cooperation." In addition, the indicator will also be assessed for log maintenance, i.e. the maintenance of vessels in a perspective that will assess which of the proposed vessels will require lower maintenance costs, and this is also important in the future. After carrying out an assessment of the technical proposals, which includes an assessment of the cost parameters, the industrial co-operation and the technical support will be carried out, the assessment of the price parameters will be carried out. On 29 May 2019 in the Ministry of Defence at a meeting of the Interdepartmental Working Group with the participation of representatives of the companies participants were opened and price offers were opened. The group's activities are expected to end around 12 June 2019 with the preparation of a final report by the group, which, after validation by me, should be submitted to the Council of Ministers. The next step is the start of negotiations with the chosen perpetrator and the signing of a contract in 2019. Upon successful completion of the procedure, the first ship is expected to be delivered to the Navy by the end of 2023, the second Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u24	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u25	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, thank you for informing us of the way in which the project is moving at the moment, which is pre-defined in the Investment Expenditure Project, but I just want to remind you that when we supported these projects, we supported them so that they can be implemented simultaneously. I am referring to the Project for Investment Expenditure in Land Troops, the Navy and the Air Force. What concerns us right now, Mr. Minister, is the financial side of the matter. Based on the practices that exist in the negotiations between Bulgaria or any foreign country, and the United States of America for the supply of arms, will this financial framework in relation to the Air Force not be violated in the way we have said....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I suppose my colleagues will speak in other projects, but I am particularly interested in the Navy, because there is a danger that if the money does not reach the budget, this process will be postponed in the foreseeable future. Therefore, I am asking you very responsibly: what are your views on this issue, is there a risk of delaying the Naval Modernization Project, and if there is such a risk, what should we do to avoid it so that the modernisation of our armed forces can go hand in hand in all their species? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u26	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, to answer further questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u27	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ermenkov, honourable colleagues! This government has been given the great responsibility and three projects to move in this mandate. The responsibility falls mainly on the Minister of Defence, and whether it is good or bad, I do not know, we will see the results at the end. The ambition was for all three projects to move in parallel, but technically impossible. Why? Because it's a legal project for ships. You know that in 2017 I found such a project in a ranking phase, there was one participant, but he gave up. The work was done there, the mechanism was done once, the mistakes were taken into account, and that's why the Navy project is currently moving the fastest, while the armored machine project is moving the slowest, as such a project has not been developed at all as opposed to airplanes. You know, there's been one experience, actually several attempts, and I'm talking about the last year before this government's term, that there was an attempt to buy new planes. There, too, the procedure is clear, so there is no way to move simultaneously by months. Here I will switch to the essential part of the answer to your question: it would be good to have signed contracts on all three projects by the end of the year. As for the money, I have a similar concern that if we have to pay the amount for the planes at once, situations may arise where something needs to be delayed. I say: I have concerns, but there is no such indication at the moment. Of course, I would not want this to happen, as there is no way that the modernisation of one of the types of armed forces could be at the expense of the others. It's not fair, it's not normal, and it'll only create bad feelings in Armed Forces personnel. There can only be a delay in the Navy Project if the report is now being prepared, it appears that the price and technical parameters that are being dealt with have gaps. In such a way, we will do our best, which is to give the three participating companies the opportunity to improve their offers if there is such an option. If not, the first examination shall assess whether the amount is exceeded. I have an idea of what this is about, but it is not right to talk about it, and we will give the opportunity to adjust the proposals to the provisions that the National Assembly has voted on us with the idea of getting to the signing of a treaty. Again, our ambition is to have a contract for the Navy by the end of the year, for God's sake, to succeed in the armored machine. The deadline, as I told you yesterday at the blitzcontrol, is today. I extended it by one week, and today is the period in which we must finally present our views and send the letters of offers to the companies that have stated their intentions. I hope it will not come to that at the expense of one of the projects the other two types of armed forces in Bulgaria will be harmed.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u28	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. We are moving on to the question of the MP Kolyo Milev about the project of investment expenditure in Land Forces. Here you are, Mr. General, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u29	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence! On 19 June last year, the National Assembly decided to adopt the Project for Investment Expenditure "Acquiring of basic fighting equipment for the construction of battalion battle groups from the composition of a mechanized brigade." Please answer my question: at what stage is and how much of the project has been implemented so far, because yesterday at the blitzcontrol we spoke and it was understood that the deadline for adjustments has been extended until today, and we are interested in when the project will start? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u30	Thank you. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer your second question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u31	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Milev, honourable Members! Indeed, we also looked at this issue yesterday at the blitzcontrol, and I will therefore be brief. As I said yesterday, by June 7th, is the time when the Land Forces have to present to me what they've done as a project for the armored machine to be sent after my approval of the companies. I can inform you because yesterday there was no question of who are the companies that have so far shown interest in the armored machine. These are the German firm "Artek", "General Dynamics", "Nekster" and "Patria". These are the four companies to whom the letters will be sent to send their bids, and with the sending of the letters the procedure has been started. Just to remind you that, like the ship, the armored machine, we have staked in the industrial cooperation of the machine to be carried out in Bulgaria, that is to say, we will allow the companies from the Bulgarian Military Industrial Complex to participate in this project. A minimum of 20% is the mandatory participation of Bulgarian companies, so-called industrial cooperation from the Bulgarian country. I can inform you without going into details about any company that literally since the end of last year, actually even after the vote on the Investment Expenditure Project in Parliament, these four companies that I have listed are actively looking for contacts with Bulgarian companies to assess which Bulgarian company with which product or activity it can participate in the construction of the Armored Marine Machine Project. This is at the moment that I can tell you further, beyond what we talked about yesterday. Once the letters are sent, the procedure is started. In practice, the third draft that we have voted on in Parliament will also be given a final move. I hope we can get this contract signed by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u32	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. For a line? Here you go, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u33	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I thank you for your answer. However, is there any danger, as I trust my colleagues in the military expertise of the Land Forces, that they will prepare the necessary documents, that there is any discrepancy between military expertise and the group in charge of the Project, to delay in time? Is this about the Bulgarian companies specifically about the Terem or are some of our other companies able to participate in the implementation of the project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u34	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u35	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Milev, there have been difficulties at work, because I say again, if there was some practice in the Ministry of Defense about the aircraft at least several times, such activity was started for the ship, you know that the activity had reached the signing of a contract, but the company that won did not sign the contract at the end of December 2017, the armored machine started on a bare lawn. In the beginning there was certainly a gap between the views on how to achieve the realization of this project. I think these things have long been overcome, and so far there are no differences between, let's call them, military and civilian specialists on the subject. You're asking me the question, "Are you only asking about Terem?" In the structures of "Terem" which is a structure of the Ministry of Defence, only assembling can be done. The assembly, nothing more, say it harshly to the audience, but there are other companies that can participate. I don't want to list them by name now, but they can participate in the optical devices, the communication resources, part of the armaments, again I say part. There is a very serious idea in two of the companies that supply the 30mm ammunition to NATO standard, which is not produced in Bulgaria, to be produced in Bulgaria as well. In other words, this would also give the opportunity, they are at least two or three companies, two Bulgarian companies can certainly take up this production, so it is not just about the Terem. We are also talking about a slightly more specific part of the activity. There are companies that, by the way, are not only at European but also at global level and are counterparties to large leading companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u36	Thank you. We are moving on to the question of the MP Nikolai Tsonkov. It concerns the investment costs of the Air Force. Mr. Tsonkov, please develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense, my question is about the acquisition of a new type of combat plane for the Air Force. Although we discussed the three modernization projects yesterday, I believe there are some issues left with you here, which we can discuss. To remind all colleagues that this project has been going on for a long time, as you said. It is one of the most sensitive in the case because it is about the highest amount to be paid. The project was once updated for investment expenditure. On 16 January this year, a decision of the National Assembly was adopted which gave a mandate for negotiations with the United States to acquire a new type of fighter aircraft and possibly deviate from the conditions laid down in the Investment Expenditure Project. However, I would like to ask you for more information: how is this project going, given the information published in the media about the U.S. Congress voting at a rather high price for acquiring F-16 fighters? How are the negotiations going? When do you expect a contract to be presented to the National Assembly? I'm asking for more information on the course of negotiations to acquire a new type of combat plane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u38	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u39	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Tsonkov, and we discussed this matter yesterday at the blitzcontrol. I will not go into details on what date the decision has been made, where, on which date the delegation has visited and who she has spoken to. These things are publicly known. It's a good thing you're asking this question about the amount voted by Congress. That's not really the amount of the plane's offer. This is the ceiling the U.S. Congress is allowing the U.S. government. This is the ceiling by which the US government can enter into a contract with Bulgaria. Ceiling! For example, I will just tell you that in Slovakia, the ceiling voted on by the American Congress is 2.8 billion. The dollar, and the deal on which the Slovaks signed their contract, is 1 billion. 800 million. The dollar. That is, the fact that Congress has voted a larger amount does not mean that this is the amount. This is the value of these 8 aircraft with equipment and armaments. The offer, of course, cannot be entered, and I am not entitled to enter into the particulars of figures that have been commented during the negotiations, because first, it is not correct and, secondly, it is a dynamic process. I can tell you that the offer in the initial talks in Washington was significantly, considerably less than the amount Congress voted on, and yet it was higher than our understandings and presentations, and the opinion of our National Assembly for an amount that we can spend. This amount was subsequently reduced. Once the 14-day deadline has passed after the Congressional decision was passed. It was on 3 June, we will receive a proposal with the specific amounts. If it does not satisfy our specialists and understanding, the talks will continue to seek that price, which is mutually acceptable and reasonable and with which we can enter with a report in the Council of Ministers and hence in the National Assembly to seek your approval for this deal. So at the moment, what some are trying to do through the media is speculate and explain how the amount they want us to do is three billion. They wanted $2 billion and $600 million, and in fact, the amount that Congress voted on is $1 billion. The Commission It's very nice of you to ask me a question. There's no such offer for that amount. Again, that's just the price. This is the amount that the US Congress has authorised the government to spend, i.e. to take as a maximum from Bulgaria. Once again, the initial offer that we received is significantly below this amount, but we still talk because we believe that there are opportunities for the amount to be removed yet, I am talking with reasonable compromises. When I say reasonable compromises, not at the expense of armaments and aircraft equipment. It must be armed and equipped as Parliament has voted on the Investment Expenditure Project. We are talking about some costs that are written as a proposal, which we believe are higher, which can be corrected by giving an alternative opinion as to why we think so. It's in the process of talking. That's on the subject, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u40	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Tsonkov, please come in for consideration. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I hope that the negotiations will pass successfully and that the best price will be achieved in the case of the acquisition of a new type of combat plane. As I said, this project is the most sensitive because of the highest price it has. Therefore, I note to you that in the end the bill is very important and it should not be at the expense of the national, state budget and at the expense of the other two investment projects. There's something else I'd like to pay attention to. However, in the Investment Expenditure Project we have other conditions that we should not ignore, namely: the payment method, the deadline for the acquisition of these fighters F-16, the industrial cooperation that is especially important for us from BSP to Bulgaria.It is also related to the development of the Bulgarian economy, the maintenance of aircraft after their acquisition, infrastructure and, last but not least, the training, which is also of particular importance. I would therefore like to draw your attention to these conditions, which should also be good enough, because we are talking at the moment only about a price, about the assembly of the fighter, about weapons systems, about equipment, and other conditions are also not insignificant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u42	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Mr. Minister, would you like to take advantage of the possibility of a duvet? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Tsonkov, you are right that this project has become the most sensitive because for a long time there has been too much talk about it. Since 2004, there has been talk of buying new fighters and the concept of what to do in our aviation. Unfortunately, the concepts are very often changed from buying old F-16s to removing the old MiG-29s, which are actually a year younger than the ones we were going to buy, until buying Grippen, until not buying anything. There was a competition between the types of armed forces, in time back I speak, which was not good and gave the opportunity to be preferred to one of the types of armed forces at the expense of others. If there is less talk on the subject politically and more in terms of security and defence interests, I think it would be better not to speculate. One of the big speculations when the interdepartmental task force was making the decision was.. Here are some offering us more units at a lower price. More units at a lower price, but without the necessary equipment and armaments, which we had to buy extra. There was a political effect to be sought. There has been speculation: why are the planes Americans going to attack Russia? That was an ugly speculation. Well, no, we're not going to attack anyone, but you're buying planes, and when you're buying planes, you're trying to buy the best of what's best right now and you can afford it. There's also a class of better planes, but at this point we don't have the financial ability to think at all. Perhaps in 10 years, some other National Assembly and another Minister will speak on this subject. That is, speculation, unfortunately, has been used absolutely politically at all levels, and this has led to this noise in the system, including speculating on the Congress's previous decision. That's not good. As you can see, no one has earned any political dividends from this work. You're right about industrial cooperation. I must tell you that Americans have a slightly different view of the meaning of the concept of industrial cooperation than we and Europeans generally understand it. The other question, but here is also a matter of conversations that flow. This is also a conversation that runs parallel to the conversation about what to have on airplanes and how much to cost the plane itself. On the subject of infrastructure. This is a cost that we will have to make, unlike other countries that are currently buying F-16 Block 70. The United States has a previous practice for similar F-16 aircraft I speak of, not this Block, and have already built somewhat or completely infrastructure for them, while we have neither the Romanians nor the Greeks that will buy, and the Croats, somewhat Slovaks. So this cost will actually have to do it, but it is a cost once for the future.. it is not, as they say, annual. And, of course, on the topic of industrial cooperation depends on how much of the maintenance of this aviation and which of the components of this support we will be able to do here and where we will do it. There's two options again. Both of them are in Plovdiv, but as they say, one is in "Avionams" and the other is in the very bases of the Air Force, but this is also a matter of conversation. Of course we are aware of these things, because these are expenses that can be increased in the future. Having here the negative experience of some deals for.. Spartan................... and Cougars... which are made without thinking about how and how much maintenance it will cost, it is an earring, or should be a earring of anyone who deals with this activity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u44	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Next is the question of the MP Valentina Naydenova. Here you are, Dr. Naydenova. You have tabled a question regarding the provision of the Bulgarian Army with military psychologists and the policy of the Ministry of Defence for their preparation and realization.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, fellow MPs! Each modern army owns a selection board for military offices whose services cannot be denied. Military psychologists not only select and direct soldiers according to their abilities, but they participate in their training, in improving the equipment and in research on methods of disguise. They care for: maintaining the soldiers' fighting spirit, assessing the impact of military factors on the civilian population, public opinion drilling, psychological impact and dissemination of information that is at the heart of the psychological war. By Decree No H-12 of 2011 on the psychological provision of the servicemen of the Ministry of Defence, the Bulgarian Army and the structures of direct submission of the Minister of Defence, in art. 55 of the Ordinance explicitly emphasizes the following: The command staff, medical authorities and psychologists in the contingents shall carry out joint actions in the prevention, control and treatment of professional and combat stress and increasing the cohesion and fighting spirit of the servicemen. Mr. Minister, I ask you to answer this question: what policy is the Ministry of Defence conducting and planning in the future for the preparation and realization of military psychologists in the military formations in the Bulgarian Army?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u46	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u47	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Naydenova, the Ministry of Defence conducts a policy with a specific focus on the psychological training and motivation of the personnel on which the successful performance of the tasks of the armed forces depends to a significant extent both on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and on participation in operations and missions abroad. The variety of tasks that servicemen are subject to requires the formation of a single model of psychological security for the armed forces to maintain a favorable socio-psychological climate. In this coordination between existing psychological assurance bodies, we have adopted the following approach: the implementation of uniform standards, the interaction of human resources management structures, the synchronization of training programmes in military and psychological training, the taking into account the experience of psychological insurance during operations and missions abroad, the conduct of psychological work with the families of military personnel, military disability and military victims. The research and practical and applied activities in the field of mental health and psychological security of servicemen as well as in the area of the definition of psychological suitability or inadequacy for military service and service in the voluntary reserve are carried out by the Mental Health and Prevention Laboratory of the Military Medical Academy. There are also positions for psychologists in the military formations, in the structures of direct submission to me as Minister of Defense, as well as in our contingents abroad. A significant part of military psychologists have participated in operations and missions abroad, and their experience and activity is of particular importance based on what they already have as gained experience. The Ministry of Defence is carrying out and plans to carry out more and more action in this direction of military psychology by undertaking a process for a thorough review of the internal regulations for the psychological provision of servicemen on the basis of a planned analysis within the framework of the forthcoming strategic defence review. Thank you for your attention, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u48	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Will you take a stand, Mrs. Naydenova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u49	Dear Minister, the specialty of Security and Defense Psychology, I think it is an extremely necessary, highly specialized, complex, modern and at the same time highly intelligent specialty, which implements the bridge between servicemen and other security authorities, medicine and population. I think that we, as MPs, will expect you to pursue a reasonable policy in the future in ensuring the necessary number of psychologists in their qualifications and realization, because the problem is extremely important and modern. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u50	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, there are no further questions for you. This concludes the questions to Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov "Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister for Defence." Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. We are moving on to a question that is addressed to Mr. Neno Dimov, Minister of Environment and Water. The question is from the MP Petar Hristov Petrov about the lack of data on Bulgaria on Natura 2000. Mr. Petrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u51	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, my question to you is about the lack of data on Bulgaria on Natura 2000 in the representative European portals. I was addressed by civil organisations in my electoral region, Sliven, on the occasion of the protected areas of Natura 2000. Citizens wonder about the principles and reasons that have led to the outline of huge territories in the area where there are no unique animal species and plants. Significant parts of the municipalities Kotel and Sliven are already depopulated because of the strict rules of Natura 2000 that limit the development of infrastructure and business. In this regard, I consulted the current state of the protected sites in Bulgaria on Natura 2000 in the information sites of the European Commission, respectively the European Biodiversity Agency. According to them, Bulgaria has failed to fulfil its commitment under art. 17 of Directive 9243 of the European Economic Community, where our country has obligations to update information on the state of Natura 2000 every six years. Minister, to date, our country is the only member state among the 27 member states that has failed to fulfil its obligation and has not submitted data to the European Commission. This leads me to think about the lack of valid documentation in Bulgaria and procedures to verify and protect the real resources of Natura 2000. Mr. Dimov, in relation to the above, I would like an answer to the question: why is the Ministry of Environment and Water not fulfilling its obligations to the European institutions and not exporting up-to-date information on Natura 2000? Do we suffer a financial penalty from the European Union for the practical non-publicization of the current state of Natura 2000 sites in the European portals? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Dear Minister, please come in and answer the question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u53	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Petrov, the European Commission expects Member States to submit their national reports as follows: under art. 12 of the Directive on birds with an absolute deadline for reporting, under art. 30 October 2019 17 of the Habitats Directive with an absolute deadline of 30 August 2019 The time limits for reporting under art. 30 April 2019 17 and 31 July 2019 for reporting under art. 12 are designated to allow Member States to re-submit reports in case of problems and deficiencies in the information initially submitted, which have been identified as a result of their quality assessment by the European Topic Centre for Biodiversity. The claim that Bulgaria is the only country that does not report under art. 17 of Directive 9243/EEC on habitats is not correct. Seen from the public portal of the European Environment Agency as of 29 May 2019, the number of reported countries is only 12. That means less than half. With regard to reporting under art. 12 of Directive 2009/147/EC for birds has also not started since the first surrender period is 31 July 2019. This report for the period 2013 - 2018 is related to the results of monitoring and determining the state of the natural habitat types and species within the framework of a project, analysis and survey of the species and natural habitats covered by the reported under art. 17 of the Habitats Directive, and art. 12 of the Birds Directive, implemented by the Environment Executive Agency and financed by the Operational Programme The delay in reporting on both directives is due to repeated appeals. They've been lost for more than three years in appeal procedures. Penalties can only be imposed if the country does not report at all, as this will actually be the infringement of the Directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u54	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Petrov, come in for a cue and attitude to the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u55	Thank you, Minister, for the correct answer. I deliberately did not enter into a preliminary discussion with you because it is an extremely important issue for Bulgaria and the Bulgarian economy, for Bulgarian demographics. I know that you, as Minister of the Ministry of Environment and Water, have no relation to the outline of the Natura 2000 areas, but I am concerned by what I myself saw on the European Commission's website, where the data on all 27 countries is being exported, I am not talking about Britain, which is a passenger, where Bulgaria is not mentioned at all. It's an official website. What you are saying is that we have already missed the preliminary deadline for this period, as I understand it, because the next deadline we have is final, final, and then we cannot make any more complaints, claims and so on. My thought, Mr. Minister I have done my work and I have obtained data that Bulgaria is first in the European Union in areas covered only by Natura 2000, I am not talking about the other sites that overlap with Natura 2000, Bulgaria has 29% of its territory in Natura 2000. By comparison, the same England, which is leaving now, is 1.5% in Natura 2000, Germany, France, by 6 7 percent. We're 29%. This thing, if you take a look at the map of Bulgaria - sorry I'm a little late, Kotel Municipality two-thirds, Sliven Municipality one-third - is covered by Natura 2000, people are really leaving these territories. They are depopulated because of an inadmissibility that exists, which is obvious. Everyone who looks at it will see 29% Bulgaria, going to Britain 1.5%, Lithuania 2 percent.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u56	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Mr. Minister, please come in and complete the matter and make further clarification.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u57	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Petrov, in order to be absolutely correct "almost 35 " 34.6%" is Natura 2000 in Bulgaria, we are third in the European Union. It is a fact that during the Triple Coalition it is announced in a way that is still unclear to this day how exactly these boundaries are outlined, there is no primary data, no such information in the Ministry of Environment and Water. I don't know if it existed then or where, but to date, and the moment I looked, there's no such primary information. That is why changes to the Biodiversity Act provide that, from now on, such policies should only be made on verified and proven primary data, which, naturally, is the obligation of the state. She needs to take care of this. As far as specific procedures are concerned, I gave you the exact deadlines. I don't think there's any reason to be concerned at this point. What is once again provided for in the Biodiversity Act and in the Draft Law, and I hope it will be a fact, is a very large part of the responsibility for the conservation of Natura 2000 and for development to be transferred to the local communities, which are the ones who live on the ground, and the regimes of banning to go into anything that is not allowed at the moment, is prohibited. To turn, that is, anything that is not forbidden to be allowed. To reverse the approach. In any case, the problem is extremely serious, the territories are very large, the mistakes are countless. We are witnessing that at Natura 2000 there are enterprises built during communism, there are airports, there are cemeteries. I mean, there are so many mistakes. I hope that the project, which has finally started and which, as I have told you, has gone through three years of appeal procedures, will give greater clarity on this, but this project will not solve these problems. However, in any case, if we go to the local communities and do what the European Commission itself says about Natura 2000, namely that it is for people, nature and the economy, that is, the compatibility of these three very important elements, not to say that this should be nature and the economy for people, this will, in my opinion, solve these concerns to a large extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-07.u58	Thank you, dear Minister. These were the questions envisaged for today's parliamentary control. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on two questions from the MPs Rumen Georgiev; and Pencho Milkov; and to one question with written answer from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Daniel Yordanov; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on two questions from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to two questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov, Krum Zarkov and Pencho Milkov; and Georgi Gokov and Dragomir Stoynev; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to three questions from the MPs Georgi Mihaylov s. two questions, and Valentina Naydenova; and to one question with a written answer from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a question from the MPs Atanas Stoyanov and Alexander Sabanov to the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov; - a question from the National Representative Tanya Petrova to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev; - a question from the National Representative Valentin Milushev to the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, Mladen Marinov, Justice Minister Danail Kirilov and Culture Minister Boyl Banov are not participating. Dear Members of Parliament, this concludes the daily programme and also the weekly work programme of the Parliament. We are withdrawing the hall of graduates from the Law Faculty of Sofia University for the service of their diplomas. Let's wish: Good luck to the young specialists, to the future MPs, future ministers and mostly worthy citizens of the prosperous Republic of Bulgaria! We're adjourned. The next meeting will be on 12 June 2019, Wednesday, at 9.00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
