ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues, I will present to you the National Assembly's Work Programme for 16 January 2019. Since today is the first Wednesday of the month, you know that there are proposals under art. 53, para. 8. There is no proposal from the Parliamentary Group on the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. From the political party's parliamentary group, Voljja is not involved. There is no proposal from GERB's parliamentary group. There is a proposal from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. "1." First vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Food Act. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 14 September 2018 There is also no proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs. "2." Draft decision to examine the proposals and the reasons for them referred to in the Council of Ministers' report on the results of the evaluation of the proposals submitted according to the Indicative Plan (Travel map) 51 of 2018), and to assign the Prime Minister to set up an organisation and negotiating team to prepare a draft international treaty and negotiate with the United States Government to acquire a new type of combat plane. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 10 January 2019. 3. New discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, adopted by the National Assembly on 13 December 2018, returned for a new discussion with Decree No 309 of 18 December 2018 to the President of the Republic under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. 4. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 26 November 2018. Point 1 for Thursday, 17 January 2019 5. A bill ratifying the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, with a view to the accession of Ecuador, signed on 11 November 2016 in Brussels. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2018. Point 2 for Thursday, 17 January 2019 6. First vote on the Social Services Bill. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2018. Point 1 for Friday, 18 January 2019 7. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the so-called Project Programme. They voted 194 MPs: 165, against 1, abstention 28. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE Law ON FOOD, No 854-01-70. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 14 September 2018. Colleagues, you know that under art. 53, para. 8 This item goes right on the agenda, so I give the floor to introduce it to whom? [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Stoynev's opinion of an importer, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Of course, we take advantage of the Rules of the National Assembly under para. 8 to submit an extremely important food quality bill. Unfortunately, since 14 September, the Agricultural Commission has found no time to consider such an important bill against double food standards. You know that this is a topic which directly concerns the health of Bulgarian citizens and we, from the opposition, have repeatedly fought a similar battle against double standards. We therefore propose changes that are in response to the practice of the so-called Double Food Standards. The purpose of the amendments to the Law is to ensure the identity of the products offered both in terms of quality and composition. We believe that with this bill we also respond to the recommendations of the European Parliament report on changing legislation at European Union level and for each individual country. Given that Bulgaria is one of the countries in which a double standard has been established for a large number of foods, we believe that such a legislative initiative is imperative in order for the control bodies to cover this problem and to help solve it. What are we entering? The requirement of the certificate is introduced which certify the identity of the products together with the maintenance of a public register for them. This will also help implement one of the European Parliament's recommendations for rapid cross-border cooperation... [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u3	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u4	...and exchange of data on unfair trade practices. In parallel, food producers in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria who produce foods of the same brand, which is produced in the territory of other countries, will be obliged to produce food according to the technical documentation of the food produced, the brand of which is registered first. When the brand is registered first in the Republic of Bulgaria and then in other countries, a certificate will not be required. We believe that in this way we will achieve the quality sought for and the security sought not only by us, but also by parents who are concerned about the quality of food that their children really consume. That is why we propose here to unite and give a resistance to this extremely bad practice for the dual quality of food. We also see what is happening at the moment that there are already proposals for these products, which are not example of a particular food ingredient, but are an artificial supplement, to be offered on a separate stand. This coincides entirely with our proposals from two years ago: the name "Bulgarian" to carry only those products on which the main raw material is produced in the country. This is, of course, a whole policy and a completely different bill, which we also offered to your attention, but you rejected and, unfortunately, the Bulgarian consumers suffer from it. That is why I propose with this bill that we really start the fight against double food standards, that we show that we can unite and protect the interest of Bulgarian citizens so that they can be calm about the food they really consume. We therefore offer it to your attention and hope to support this bill at first reading. Of course, at second reading any political force can make the relevant proposals, but I think that this is a good step to ensure the quality of Bulgarian food. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Professor Bachvarova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! My colleague, Mr. Stoinev, presented the reasons of the bill and I would like to appeal to you to support this bill because for more than a year the European Commission found in an indisputable way that there is a double standard for food. This was found not only in Bulgaria, but also in most Eastern European countries, during which time the European Commission, in the most general sense, gave recommendations again, made a working group that developed a methodology, from now on to do the relevant research in each country. Agree that for a year and a half, two has been found to be a serious violation and to tolerate unfair trade practices in the country without taking any measures is quite serious criticism. It can also be addressed to the executive authority that there are no proposals, and also the legislative, because measures can be taken, however difficult they can be, in the common European family, but can be the beginning of a more serious control precisely in terms of food. Most often, the problem is the use of food ingredients that are replaced for countries and especially in Eastern Europe. They are of lower quality and do not comply with the brand protected by the manufacturer, which sells the product accordingly, because the established trademarks have their place in the overall assortment available in the retail chains. In addition, the double standard of food creates prerequisites and problems for the Bulgarian producers because in the competition in which they should work in the food and food market, they cannot succeed. The reason is that their requirements are much greater and therefore the need to protect their qualities to consumers confronts products that do not meet the requirements they are created with. We have also been waiting for the new food law, on which there has been no movement for a year, a year and a year. The reasons are different, but it is precisely in the field of food to solve some of these issues. Unfortunately, we have a problem here that the new food law is not yet at second reading and from now on we have no opportunity in this law to create the legal prerequisites that will enable us to resolve our issues. What do we suggest? We offer these products that in... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u7	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u8	... The European Union has established trademarks to have certificates of conformity accordingly. These certificates of compliance should guarantee the Bulgarian consumer not only to read the label, but to make sure that with the certificate this product is indeed the one sold in the Western European countries as well. The certificates will be issued by the relevant competent authorities, but the competent authority in the country will be the one to have the opportunity to check on-site, including through studies, whether these certificates comply with what is written in the ingredients and label. For Bulgarian products there is no requirement for such a certificate of conformity. The reason is that Bulgarian producers are subject to double control. On the one hand, they must protect their product, but in addition, the country has the physical control that can always be established whether what is written and what is guaranteed by the label is also marketed. Accordingly, penalties are provided for for products which do not comply with the requirements and the certificate proposed on the market, because otherwise it is absolutely irrelevant whether we want or not to ask for a certificate if the competent authority cannot establish it and accordingly provide the relevant penalties. Once again, I ask you to support the Bill because this is a first, small step in this direction, but it can solve a significant number of problems of Bulgarian consumers and also of Bulgarian producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u9	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Abase.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! The past 2018 has been accompanied by many scandals. One of the scandals in the agricultural field was the issue of double food standards. It is no secret to anyone that the food that the Bulgarian citizen consumes differs greatly as quality and as content from the same food that the citizens of other European countries consume. All this was the subject of a very broad study by the Ministry of Agriculture. You know, there have been many laboratory tests, many comparative studies, which found that the content of nutrients in most of the products that are consumed in Bulgaria are different from those that are in other countries. This puts the Bulgarian consumer, the Bulgarian citizen in another category, and all of us here in this Chamber agree and we are convinced that the Bulgarian citizen, the Bulgarian consumer is not a second-hand citizen of the European Union. The proposed Bill we consider as a first step in solving this problem, as it introduces only the concept of "certificates" which will, to a large extent, solve some of the issues. I take it as a first step, as the beginning of a long process that should develop. Undoubtedly the bill is useful for the Bulgarian society, for the Bulgarian consumer, for the Bulgarian producer and for us from the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. The problem with double standards lies in the Recommendations of the European Parliament, as well as in the draft directives, so it is not only Bulgarian, but also a problem of many of the newly joined countries of Eastern Europe. The certificate offered in the ZID is a legal tool to combat different quality in the same foods offered in our country and in other countries. The protection of the Bulgarian consumer and the promotion of Bulgarian production is one of the main objectives of our party and we will not give up pursuing this priority of ours to encourage Bulgarian production, to encourage Bulgarian production and to be equal to other products imported from the European countries. We certainly have no doubt about the utility of the Bill, but between first and second readings, I think we should propose adjustments. For now, there are several questions to which at least I do not find an answer in the so- proposed PID. The first of these is whether the certificate should be issued by an official body of the Member States or by the producers themselves, the so-called................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Colleagues, agree that at the introduction of certification obligations by an official authority, we are actually imposing obligations on the other 28 countries for their authorities to issue this certificate. I think this, without synchronising all European legislation, would be difficult to achieve, and I think it also creates a small financial commitment of the other member states. The second question to which I do not find an answer in the proposed ZID is what happens to unprocessed foods, because this ZID concerns processed foods, but I think the unprocessed products are not included. The third question to which I do not see an answer in the proposed bill, or accept it as a proposal, is why sanctions are in absolute value and not in percentage of the total turnover of the company. Last but not least, which is also very important: colleagues, the Law must be notified under Directive 1535 of 2015. With these motives and remarks, we will support this bill at first reading and our idea is between first and second reading all these questions that are still hanging in the air and not finding an answer to get their concrete solution in the new version for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u11	Thank you, Mr. Abase. Are there any lines to the statement? There are no lines. Mr. Georgiev, come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I have not made a reply to Mr. Abase since the Law is still looking at it at first reading and I want to see a little more generally the policy regarding double standards. Otherwise, in terms of what Mr Abase said, we have always taken care of how to ratify ourselves, how to ask the European Commission. However, at the same time in Austria, until they sell their fruits and vegetables, there are no imports of fruits and vegetables. In Germany, until the implementation of two euros and fifty cents of local potato production takes place, there is no import of potatoes. Therefore, I would like us to look at things in this direction slightly more generally from the point of view of formulating and creating an effective model of Bulgarian agricultural policy. Here is also the question of double standards, what we are proposing today. A number of additional factors that affect various national policies must also be taken into account. National security, the role of agricultural policy in defending national security is significant and, in a certain aspect, has a leading meaning. For example, the week-long blockade at the border crossings with the Hellenic Republic in 2015 led to a drastic increase in vegetables in Bulgaria, as about 35% of the greenhouse vegetables consumed were imported from there. Despite the responsibility of the markets and the free movement of goods within the European Union, Bulgaria is obliged to maintain certain levels of food production, categorically such levels that it is not victualized. The effect of such a policy cannot be measured only through the pure economic indicators and the system of indicators characterised by the economic efficiency of the national agricultural sector. In this sense, agricultural policy is closely intertwined with national security policy and its respective effects. From the point of view of national health policy, agricultural policy should be aimed at preserving traditional Bulgarian food products, technologies, plant varieties, animal breeds and genofund. This will preserve the quality of traditional Bulgarian food and as a final effect will lead to improvement of the general health status of the Bulgarian population. In this respect, it can be said that the restoration and imposition of the production of traditional food products by traditional technologies from Bulgarian raw materials of the relevant quality is an element of national health policy. From the point of view of national environmental policy, it has and will increasingly have a direct impact on agricultural policy, the chosen model for its implementation. This is about preserving the sustainability of the food production system by preserving the qualities of the natural potential of Bulgarian agriculture, i.e. without the excessive use of chemicals, biotechnology, GMOs methods and other intensive factors, increasing CO2 emissions caused by the means of transport of finished foods, etc. Since Bulgaria has become a full member of the European Union since 2007, the analysis of agricultural policy shows that the mechanisms of both the common agricultural policy and the national agricultural policy are aimed at stimulating the cultivation of over-intensity crops and mainly grain. However, there are no incentives and mechanisms by the state to process it in the country to a final consumer product with high added value and high employment. At the same time, the Bulgarian agricultural territory is able to feed the population entirely with the climate limiter for production assortment of products. It is believed that if more than one-fifth of the food that the population mainly consumes is imported, the country is food dependent. This could lead to a dictation of imports and to a worsening of the conditions for increasing national food production. Thus Bulgaria from leading, highly developed, with food independence and security agrarian state in the world until 1989, today the statistics on imports and consumption define it as the most victually dependent country in the European Union and these double standards that we are talking about. Today, around 80 " 85% of the fruits and vegetables in Bulgaria are imported. About 70 - 75% of the milk imported into the dairy products sold on the market is imported in the form of milk concentrate, dry milk and whey, milk protein and so on. About 95% of beef and beef is imported, about 65% of pig meat, about 60% of lamb meat processed in the country into final product are also imported. Operating customs statistics show increased imports of leather, fat and meat clippings. These are products that have been widely used in recent years for the production of meat products in quotes. That is why, by our parliamentary group, we believe that this law must be adopted at first reading and, between first and second readings, of course, if there are proposals to be further developed. Thank you for your attention. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u13	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any lines? There are no requests for lines. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Food Act, No 854-01-70, submitted on 14 September 2018 by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 199 MPs: 95, against 15, abstention 89. The offer is not accepted. Re-vote Mr. Stoynev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm asking for a re-vote. Colleagues, it is not normal for you GERB to support double standards in food. After all, this bill concerns the health of Bulgarian citizens. Let's pass at first reading, at second reading to make your suggestions, but it is not normal GERB to support double standards in food. You de facto want Bulgarian citizens to continue to eat different foods compared to what Europeans eat. Please support this bill very much. The same goes for the Patriots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u15	I'm re-voting the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Food Act. Vote 206 MPs: for 102, against 23, abstention 81. The offer is not accepted. Negative vote please, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u16	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I'm going out to explain why our position is like this. I'm sorry, we missed the debate. We talked to our colleagues and it was closed. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So, honourable Members, why we are opposed to the proposed bill cannot produce legal effect and is done only for the purpose of political speaking and populism. [[Applause from GERB.]] Secondly, there is a legislative statement which is public and importers could be aware that the proposed texts can only be considered after notification to the European Commission. Thirdly, at the moment, the whole new food law, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers, examined and adopted by the National Assembly at first reading, is on a second notification to the European Commission, which ends on 21 January this month, with only one country currently making comments. The Bill is expected to be returned by the end of the month by the European Commission and the National Assembly to continue its second reading. We are in the period of the procedure between first and second reading, there is a second reading of the texts of the whole new food law, and if they do not satisfy, those having a legislative initiative, MPs, political powers, or other persons for protecting the Bulgarian consumer from the double standard of food, against which are absolutely all politically represented and unpresented political forces, I would like to stress it, are in their right to ask for improvement of these texts. We should not be in a situation where the National Assembly should adopt texts, laws, or any legislation, only for television shows, show, political speaking and populism. What this body accepts should be such as to produce the legal effect and not to serve as political slogans. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u17	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u18	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u19	What kind of problem do you have in keeping? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev. There is a second negative vote, however. Wait.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u20	Come out so we can make a line for you. What's with the negative votes? [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u21	Mr. Stoinev, this is procedure in general.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u22	Just a moment. - What's the pro-vote procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u23	Dear colleagues, we also did not support this bill for two reasons: one, of course, is the one that Mrs. Taneva said she really needs a notification. The second very simple reason is that when we make a ban on importers of each country, not only from the European Union, that country can make the same requirements and certificates for our exporters. So we can do more harm than help the Bulgarian production and the Bulgarian exporters and producers. That is why we voted against. Of course, we're all about stopping double standards. In the law that will be seen between first and second readings, we will discuss your proposals and see how they can be inserted into the bill in order to reduce or eradicate this practice of some producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u24	Thank you, dear Mr. Sabanov. Will there be a third negative vote? I won't. In the manner of holding Mr. Stoynev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u25	Thank you, Madam President. My request is when by the majority majority responsible between the Patriots and GERB want to speak, it is good to do so when there is a specific rule procedure so that we can replicate, because with the negative vote you are making right now, you are not giving us the right to a reply. It shows you're scared and you're guilty of something. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u26	To me, Mr. Stoinev, to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u27	Then this entire bill will enter into the second reading of the Law, which must be notified.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u28	I think there's no violation of the regulations on my part. Everyone has a right... What is your recommendation to me, Mr. Stoinev?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u29	Then this entire bill will enter into the second reading of the Law, which must be notified. After all, this is a recommendation from the European Parliament and nothing prevents us from having a constructive debate, and you are running away from the debate, because it is clear that you "GERB" and the Patriots support the double standards of food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u30	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. You weren't right about me. I didn't break the rules in any way. Mr. Georgiev, please come in the manner of conduct. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u31	Maybe it's a statement. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u32	You can't. If it's a statement, I'll take your word for it. I'm listening to your remark to me?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u33	Wait, I didn't say. Madam President, honourable Members! In the manner of conduct, Madam President. What you have allowed Mrs. Taneva to say so harshly, for almost political PR by Mrs. Taneva [[GERB lines]] The opposition is absolutely wrong. Ms. Taneva had to be present in Zagreb to hear in person what Phil Hallam said: very often administrative and bureaucratic burdens are created in the country, Madam President. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u34	To me, Mr. Georgiev! I had to... Tell me, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u35	And it was up to a fellow Patriots who didn't support and otherwise are patriots to tell him that the Law wasn't adopted at first you read, which is why he said that we would make a proposal between first and second readings. You should have supported him to make an offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u36	Obviously the arguments were not strong enough, Mr. Georgiev, so you did not receive support. I can't get anyone to vote against their will. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO TAKE INTO ACCOUNT THE PRESENTATION AND MOIVES FOR SUCH AS REFERRED TO IN THE REPORT OF THE MINISTER COUNCIL ON THE RESULTS OF THE ASSESSMENT OF THE SUCCESSED PROPOSALS UNDER THE EXEMPTIONAL PLAN (PATCH CARD) 51 Since 2018), and to provide the Ministor-administrative to create an organisation and a revised ECIP for designing a draft international agreement and conducting a review with the Government of the UNITED AMERICAN STATES for the implementation of a new type of military aircraft. The sitting will be evident, honourable Members, although the meeting of the two committees has been closed, as the report submitted by the Council of Ministers is clear. I ask that colleagues who have used classified information do not announce it in this debate. Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u37	Madam President, honourable Members! Undoubtedly, it is a contract that is key to the state and is important. I see that the Minister of Defence is present here, but that, in my opinion, especially in this treaty, is not enough, for the simple reason that we all know and understand, I suppose, the Prime Minister's personal commitment in this case is very important. For me, the state is still run by the Prime Minister, whom we have all chosen. He's been on TV often enough, even though we've lost him for the last 15 days. I do not know what the Prime Minister's opinion on this treaty is, and it is very much up to him. I mean, I don't know how we're going to make a decision if we don't understand the Prime Minister's attitude and attitude, which has been missing for 20 days, I still stress, for the first time in history since he was in politics. Here is a topic on which, for reasons unknown to me, it is the Prime Minister, who is the key in this case, who is missing. Why isn't he here? After all, Mr. Tsvetanov is not running the state at the moment. We have not elected Mr. Tsvetanov as Prime Minister, but Mr. Borisov. Therefore, my procedure is to urge the Prime Minister to attend this debate and to express his opinion on what should happen and what the Council of Ministers should do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u38	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. I will inform the Prime Minister of your request. This is Mr. Karakachanov, Deputy Prime Minister responsible for this department. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u39	Madam President, honourable Members. I'm taking the floor by procedure because my colleague Kutev asked a point of order. I won't follow his argument. We have a representative of the Council of Ministers, and of the highest rank, Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, whose portfolio is national security. The question posed by the colleague is the other question: where is the commander-in-chief of the Republic of Bulgaria [[Applause from GERB]] which has also been involved and is relevant to the issue that we are going to discuss, has signed the document with which the procedure started historically back in time? It's also right that the commander-in-chief who I remember the only time I've ever seen him. He gave us a deadline, but that was in the last parliament. He was in the last parliament. He came and said: you have eight days left. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The question is... Here comes no order for generals, here comes a talk about the commander-in-chief, Mr. Profesore, the commander of the Bulgarian Army, who is the Head of State and has his role in the Constitution, and has a special place on the balcony, and here. How many times has the commander-in-chief come to parliament?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u40	Your procedure is to invite Mr. President, Mr. Kirilov?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u41	Yeah, then we have a veto. Veto, which is also the President's. When will the president come to picture the veto? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u42	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. We will inform the President's Administration of your invitation, but Mr. President is always welcome in the Bulgarian Parliament. Do we have any other procedures? We're moving on to the Defence Committee report. General Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u43	Madam President, honourable Members! I ask for a procedure for admission in the hall of the Deputy Minister of Defence Mr. Atanas Zapreyanov, Deputy Chief of Defence General Dimitar Iliev, and the Commander of the Air Force General Tsanko Stoykov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u44	Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 144 MPs: 140, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you are, General Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u45	♪ I can't believe of the Defence Committee on an opinion on the "Project of a decision to examine the proposals and the reasons for them referred to in the Council of Ministers's report on the results of the evaluation of the proposals submitted according to the Indicative Plan (Travel map) 51 of 2018), and to assign the Prime Minister to set up an organisation and negotiating team to prepare a draft international treaty and negotiate with the Government of the United States of America to acquire a new type of fighter aircraft, No 902 03-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 January 2019. At a regular meeting held on 15 January 2019, the Defence Committee discussed the opinion on the above-mentioned Draft Decision. The meeting was attended by Mr. Karakachanov, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence; Mr. Manolev, Deputy Minister of Economy; Mr. Atanas Zapreyanov, Deputy Minister of Defence; Mr. Iliya Nalbantov, Head of the Political Office of the Minister of Defence; Mrs. Vanya Denevska, Secretary-General of the Ministry of Defence; Lieutenant General Dimitar Iliev, Deputy Minister of Defence; Major General Tsanko Stoykov, Commander of the Military Air Force; Brigadier General Dimitar Petrov, Commander of Air Base Exhibition with the proposals and reasons of the Council of Ministers' report and the proposals for a decision of the National Assembly was presented by Mr. Karakachanov and Mr. Manolev. Minister Karakachanov briefed the Commission on the establishment of the organization and the implementation of the Project for the acquisition of a new type of fighter plane so far. The tasks and results of the work of the Joint Working Group and the Political-Military Group were explained in detail. As a summary of the work of the Joint Working Group, it was pointed out that the proposed in response to the RFP did not contain sufficient information to assess the life cycle costs, which did not allow the correct implementation in full of the Methodology for choosing an optimal option; despite the efforts made, a large part of the missing information was not provided; in all three proposals the necessary infrastructure remains a commitment of the Bulgarian side; and due to the fact that the correct application of the Methodology was hindered, the estimates received do not allow for an objective comparison of the proposals. Minister Karakachanov added that the value of the specified equipment/licenses/approvals is not included in the price proposals of Italy and Sweden. In conclusion, Minister Karakachanov said that the proposals for changing the approach are based on the following and aim to bring the project to a successful conclusion, which is extremely necessary for the Bulgarian Air Force. He explained that the proposal is to start negotiations with the United States, and if they do not bring results acceptable to our country, we will move on to negotiations with the other two candidates. In order to ensure greater flexibility in the negotiations, the proposal to the National Assembly includes a request to divert some of the project's basic requirements adopted with the adoption of the Investment Expenditure Project on 8 June 2018. After Minister Karakachanov, the word was given to Deputy Minister Manolev. By supporting the Council of Ministers' report, he explained that the Ministry of Economy's participation in the project is related to the requirements for industrial cooperation and that in this respect all proposals meet the requirements. In the subsequent discussion took the MPs Jayhan Ibryamov, Tasco Ermenkov, Vladimir Toshev, Valentin Radev, Slavcho Velkov, Hristo Gadzhev, Kolyo Milev, Simeon Simeonov, Vasil Antonov, Petar Vitanov and Nikolay Tsonkov. The speakers supported the modernization of the Bulgarian army in principle. In the discussion were asked supplementary questions and expressed different opinions regarding: the presence and place in the process of a separate report of the Politico-Military Group; the legality of the requested change of the parameters of the PIR; the possibilities for making claims to our country in connection with the World Trade Organisation's Public Procurement Agreement; the costs during the life cycle of the aircraft acquired; the proposed assembly of the aircraft; the provision of the necessary funds not only for the Project to acquire a new type of combat aircraft, as well as for the other priority projects of the Ministry of Defence. Detailed and justified answers to the questions asked were given by Minister Karakachanov and his team. They explained that as a result of the work of the Political-Military Group and the Joint Working Group, a final protocol of the Joint Working Group was drawn up to be provided to the Members of the National Assembly. The legal realization of the project provides for the conclusion of a treaty Government- Government which does not fall within the scope of the World Trade Organisation Public Procurement Agreement. It was pointed out that only the US offer to F-16 Block 70 offers a complete set that meets our requirements for multi-purpose aircraft. The other two proposals require the conclusion of additional contracts between Bulgaria and at least two other countries to reach the full capabilities of the aircraft acquired. With regard to the financial resources, it was stated that they were estimated and are in line with the National Plan adopted by the government to increase defence costs to 2% of the gross domestic product of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2024. After reading the proposals and the reasons for them mentioned in the Council of Ministers' report and the proposals for a decision of the National Assembly, the members of the Defence Committee with 12 votes........................................................................................... The Defence Committee supports the Project of a decision to examine the proposals and the reasons for them set out in the Council of Ministers' Report on the results of the evaluation of the proposals submitted according to the Indicative Plan (Pat map) 51 of 2018), and to assign the Prime Minister to set up an organisation and negotiating team to prepare a draft international treaty and conduct negotiations with the Government of the United States of America to acquire a new type of fighter aircraft, No 902-03-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 January 2019, and propose that the National Assembly adopt a decision adopting the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u46	Thank you, my dear General. Would you like to present the draft decision?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u47	Project! DECISION for consideration of the proposals and the reasons for them set out in the Council of Ministers' report on the results of the evaluation of the proposals submitted under the Indicative Plan (Travel map) 51 of 2018), and to assign the Prime Minister to set up an organisation and negotiating team to draft an international treaty and negotiate with the United States government to acquire a new type of combat plane The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 16, p. 7a of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria Taking into account and accepting the proposals and the reasons for them set out in the Council of Ministers' report on the results of the evaluation of the proposals submitted under the Indicative Plan (Travel map) 51 of 2018) HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Council of Ministers to prepare a draft international treaty and to hold negotiations with the Government of the United States to acquire a new type of combat plane from the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. Instructs the Prime Minister to set up an organization and negotiating team to prepare a draft international treaty and conduct negotiations with the Government of the United States of America to acquire a new type of fighter aircraft F-16V Block 70 from the Republic of Bulgaria. 3. The Minister of Defence, the Minister of Economy, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Finance must participate in the draft contract by the Bulgarian side. 4. The draft of an international treaty under point (a) of Article 3 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 may deviate from the mandatory requirements set out in the updated investment expenditure project. 51 of 2018), on the basis of the proposal received by the Government of the United States of America, subject to subsequent ratification on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 15, para. 1 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u48	Thank you, dear General Popov. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance follows. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u49	Mrs. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision to examine the proposals and the reasons for them referred to in the Council of Ministers' Report on the results of the evaluation of the proposals submitted under the Indicative Plan (Travel map) 51 of 2018), and to assign the Prime Minister to establish an organisation and negotiating team to prepare a draft international treaty and negotiate with the Government of the United States of America to acquire a new type of combat plane, No 902-03-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 January 2019. At a closed meeting held on 15 January 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that draft decision. In his discussion took part the representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Rositsa Velkova Deputy Minister; of the Ministry of Defence: General Atanas Zaprianov Deputy Minister, General Dimitar Iliev Deputy Chief of Defence, Tsanko Stoykov Commander of the Air Force; of the Ministry of Economy: Alexander Manolev Deputy Minister; of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Emilia Kraleva Deputy Minister. The Republic of Bulgaria has been a member of NATO for 15 years and enjoys the advantages that its membership provides, namely, participation in a stable system of collective security that guarantees the territorial integrity of the country, creates conditions for economic prosperity and protection of fundamental democratic values and principles. As a NATO member, our country, together with the other member states, bears its share of the responsibility for collective defence, regulated in art. 5 of the Washington Treaty, which provides protection and defence in the territory and population of the member states of the Alliance. In this sense, the Republic of Bulgaria should fulfil specific commitments such as acquiring and developing capabilities, sharing responsibilities within the framework of collective defence and deepening strategic cooperation with key allies. At the same time there is a deepening of the processes of destabilization and conflicts in regions of immediate proximity to the territory of our country. Given the risks and threats to the country's security, no further delay in the modernisation of the Air Force can be allowed. The acquisition of a new multi-purpose fighter like F 16V Block 70 from the United States, equipped with the latest generation of radar and weapons, will lead to the rise of a qualitatively new level of combat capabilities of Bulgarian combat aviation. Following the discussion of the draft decision, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision to examine the proposals and the reasons for them set out in the Council of Ministers' Report on the results of the evaluation of the proposals submitted under the Indicative Plan (Travel map) 51 of 2018), and to assign the Prime Minister to set up an organisation and negotiating team to prepare a draft international treaty and negotiate with the Government of the United States of America to acquire a new type of combat plane, No 902-03-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 January 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u50	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. The first one asked for the word Mr. Karadayi. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! I'll be very brief. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms strongly supports the Decision and we will vote for.......................................................................................... Our position is clear and strictly consistent. Both in 1990 and 1999, and 2017 and 2019 it is the same, close to 30 years invariably maintain the Euro-Atlantic orientation of our country. When it comes to national security, populism has no place. National security begins where populism ends or, more precisely, where populism begins, national security ends. So when you talk about it, there should be no populism. We're talking about buying security, not just buying battle planes. The country's security decision is political and strategic and we support it. Until yesterday, GERB argued one thing, and today they claim that the decision on national security is political and strategic. Well, the question arises: can GERB provide such a political and strategic majority of the ruling coalition in the National Assembly on this political and strategic issue? If they can't, what kind of management is this?! Whose interest is that? It's a rhetorical question. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Today we are discussing an important subject and I count on it to be dealt with with with all the seriousness it deserves. Our discussion here cannot be about the technical characteristics of the various aircraft.. That is clear. Each of the proposals made meets the requirements laid down in respect of these characteristics, so there can be no theoretical dispute here. That's why BSP hasn't stated any preferences since the beginning. Our request was and is one to make a choice that most responds to the needs of the air force and fits in the pre-set requirements as we have decided here, with you, in the National Assembly. BSP supported and continues to support the modernisation of the Bulgarian army. On the one hand, to increase our capabilities, to guarantee the country's security and, together with being an adequate partner in NATO. The responsibility for how this is to happen is in the control and responsibility of the government and the majority. Here you are on the verge of failure, which today will be stamped with an absurdly formulated decision of the National Assembly. You are asking us to make a decision to sign an empty government check contrary to a decision of the National Assembly confirming mandatory requirements. We can't support him. Why? Firstly, we believe that the requirements, as we have decided and supported them, are well thought-out, carefully developed and take into account all important aspects. Deviation from them is a diversion from the interests and opportunities of Bulgaria. Secondly, the deep problem is the inadequate procedure planned as a transparent process and ended in the shadows of Christmas and New Year's holidays, which left a taste of rush, of external pressure, of transforming the process of requirements to which candidates must meet, requirements from one candidate, to which Bulgaria must fit. This is unacceptable to us. Thirdly, the financial side is very important to us. We highly appreciate every lev of the Bulgarian taxpayers and insist that it be invested in the best way. We don't accept games with hundreds of millions in the name of vaguely formulated benefits. We have agreed on a ceiling of 1.8 billion. lv. and we will not give up on it because Bulgaria cannot afford to spend more on it. We're worried that the government is just putting itself in a weak position, allowing retreat from that amount. I would like to say a few words on the subject of the strategic choice of this weaponry. The difficulty of motivating a supplier's choice on the basis of technical requirements has forced you to bring out political arguments. In fact, going back, we can see that all the actions of the government and the majority of the first day were literally aimed at achieving this exact result. Today you are talking about NATO, that there is nothing more normal to purchase arms from a NATO partner, that we need to confirm the strategic partnership with the United States, that neighbouring countries use the same aircraft and we need to be like them. These arguments were indeed the same before the initiation of the procedure. If the result was decided, why were we playing the other partners and companies? Could we have had a political debate and made a political decision? With your actions, you're putting US partners in an awkward position. The question remains: would the flexible framework, or rather the lifting of the framework you want us to do today, not have other NATO partners making their own, perhaps more advantageous proposals? These arguments are logical. Perhaps a few years ago, it would have been enough to make that particular choice. The world is changing fast. NATO is also changing under the pressure of the United States. Today's US leadership has repeatedly questioned NATO's role, questioned its role in NATO, including its unofficial participation in NATO, in the sense of NATO's existence. I'm not saying NATO is leaving. On the contrary, it is an organization that will continue to exist, but it is important that we realize that it is changing. This isn't the organization from a few years ago. The contradictions between the United States and the European Union are becoming increasingly visible. We do not want these contradictions, we hold on to the transatlantic link, but these contradictions are mainly inspired by today's American leadership. The United States' intentions and wishes to invest in bilateral relations are visible more than in multilateral relations, including within NATO. At the same time, including because of these trends that I say again, they give indications of direction, the European Union is accelerating its efforts to build a convincing common security and defence policy, to build its own defence capabilities. The possibility of creating a European army is also seriously discussed, albeit not in the immediate future. Today, there is no member state that does not support this direction of development. The dispute is, above all, not whether to have such abilities, but whether these abilities are complementary to NATO, or whether to develop in parallel as independent. I would also like to address our partners, the BSP has repeatedly stressed, including you will find it in our election platforms, that it insists on strategic relations with the United States. Moreover, we want their comprehensive character to develop and expand. We have stated more than once that it cannot be reduced mainly and mainly to military co-operation. If Bulgaria is also seen as such an important partner from the United States, if long-term cooperation in this area is important to them, I hope that after today's decisions, which are obvious after the obvious support requested by the DPS, the government's proposal, the negotiations will proceed in such a way that the result does not deviate from the mandatory requirements that you and I have adopted. I think when you want to invest strategically in a relationship, you can afford to do it. From this point of view, I can declare that if the ratification treaty, which is presented to the Bulgarian Parliament, meets the requirements that we have adopted and supported by our own decision, both the National Council of the Party and the National Assembly, we will support the ratification of this treaty. However, if it deviates and significantly, as are the indications to date, we cannot continue our support for this, but we will also make sure that this process does not go the same way in the other areas in which we have our decisions, because the Bulgarian Parliament must be respected and the attempt to play it out in this way has no justification. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Any lines to the statement? Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u55	Madam President, honourable Members! I was impressed with a few things from Mr. Vigenin's statement. One of the main ones is: "We value each lev. "..................................................................................................................................................................... The answer I received from the end of Mr. Vigenin's speech. He says: "This was adopted and supported by our National Council and the party as a whole. " Have you asked these voters, the people? Do you respect their interests? Finally, let's not turn into psychics. NATO would continue to exist. And I can say it won't continue to exist. Let's leave it at that, see how things go. We're not psychics here, we're MPs, and we need to get down to business. What is this statement: I say that NATO will continue to exist?! Until yesterday, no one doubted that the United States would be a member of UNESCO, today they are not, tomorrow they may decide not to be members of NATO. So more responsible to the tribune from which you speak. Let's just get down to business, not psychic! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u56	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u57	Dear Mr. Mareshki, I would return you to what I began my speech to have a serious discussion with the understanding of its importance. You've dropped the level of discussion with your first line. I hope that if you or your group have a statement, it will be better motivated and not be as superficial as you have just demonstrated. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Toshev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Dear Minister, Dear Gentlemen Generals! I would like to start with the fact that today at the Assembly, and at an open session, we are continuing a process that has started 2004 - 2005. The situation has changed radically, things have changed radically, prices have changed radically. At the moment we determine not only the future development of the Air Force, but also of the Bulgarian Army, and of Bulgaria as a whole. The relay points from which we should approach at this time are that not GERB, and before GERB has taken the right and cardinal strategic decision to be members of NATO and the European Union. From then on, the things we have to decide are not that difficult. In this case, we are deciding on the smallest in numbers, however, as financial support, the most expensive type of armed forces,................... our air force. The decision that we will make today will give impetus to the other two global modernization processes for the war machine and for the ship, only the difference is cardinal. In other modernization projects the procedures are different and run on different laws and regulations. Here, colleagues, we have no doubt why this is not a competition procedure, but it is a negotiation between a state of state. In the written and unwritten modern history there is no case where interstate competition procedures have been conducted, so we must now allow the government to emerge from the framework that we set in the middle of last year, due to the fact that all three qualifying proposals do not fit into this framework. Here has been mentioned for prophesying, predictions and so on, without looking at beans or any other such spells to do, I can tell you that if today we decide the government to negotiate for F-16 Block 70, we will have a better price that will enter the framework and we will have a supply that will guarantee us a future of aviation for the next minimum of 40 years. These are things that have happened and can be seen the tender procedures that the US state has conducted with other countries that are not NATO members. Regarding matters, why should it be F-16? For the simple reason, colleagues, that this is a plane that has been at war since 1980 in all the battles.... significant wars that have been fought on our planet. This is an aircraft that is armed in 31 countries in most NATO countries. This is a plane that was preferred by Slovakia and Bahrain, only less than a month ago. This is an aircraft that is armed in Romania, Turkey and Greece, as our specific neighbours. This is an airplane that is being produced and which is fighting by a NATO state for the NATO states and there is no doubt that over four thousand aircraft produced so far have been better and fought with fired planes than 240 and several of them have not fought anywhere. Furthermore, we have not heard anything about corruption scandals in connection with F-16 trading, and we have not heard anything about such a scandal relating to the sale of Gripen. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And I'm graduating with regard to the talk that something happened around Christmas holidays, well, yeah, SAAB revealed their representation in Sofia, interesting why? Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. Any lines to the statement? Here's your first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u61	Thank you, Madam President. I listened with attention to what Mr. Toshev said. I've been provoked by the other thing we've heard about national security and populism. I believe that where populism ends, lobbying begins. That is what we have just heard. We are not here to listen to the merits and disadvantages of certain types of aircraft. We are discussing a proposal from the Council of Ministers to divert, notice, from the mandatory conditions. All right, offer, talk, Mr. Toshev, for a frame! Tell me, what is the frame of half a billion, one billion? From what you say, however, I understand once again that you have not read the Report. And a large part of the Defence Committee, yesterday, I paid attention to this issue, has not been familiar with the Politico-Military Group Report. Yesterday, on my question, the commander of the air base, in connection with the mysterious pilots who were asked by the Prime Minister, said here General Simeonov is here, no one has asked us about anything. And now you're talking about which plane was good, which countries were fighting and so on. I do not want to respond to you in a similar way, I will only tell you that all the countries that point to the hot spots in any one does not have an anti-air defense system. It's like being attacked with a knife and you being with your bare hands and not being able to fight it doesn't matter. By the way, I'm gonna make you a little joke. Make a reference in December to the Romanian Army parade how many planes took off?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u62	How much?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u63	Zero!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague, as a member of a party that is about European values, I think you should be careful when talking about European companies. This is a trend because you have recently tried to transfer the responsibility of a good European company for the failure of the toll system, and now you are talking and raising doubts about corruption for another European company. I pay attention to you that this can and will have consequences for the investment climate in Bulgaria, because if these numbers are constantly and have no consequences, in the foreign policy plan they have lasting ones. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. Third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u67	Thank you, Madam President. In line with the lines: I am a lobbyist and I say it here, from the tribune, to be written in capital letters in the protocol. I am a lobbyist for the national interests of Bulgaria and for the future of the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. I don't have any contacts with any company that manufactures anything, much less airplanes. No one has ever said anything to me, talked to me, talked to me, talked to me, talked to me, talked to me, talked about me, talked about me, talked about me, talked about me, talked about me, talked about me, talked about me, talked about me, talked about me, talked I speak with a clear conscience, I speak as a person who more than half of his life has passed right into the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and exactly in this field. Secondly, with regard to Mr. Velkov and yesterday in the Commission, and now there are some numbers that have nothing to do with reality. If you read this famous report of this committee first, it is working and not mandatory, and, Mr. Velkov, we have voted on what set of documents to come out of the committees, from the Ministry of Defence and from the Minister of Defence to the Council of Ministers, to the President and to the National Assembly. The fact that the president received more documents is of his own volition, because he requested them as commander in chief. But the numbers you're constantly waving, nor are there tens of thousands per flight time, on either of the planes, nor are the differences that you're quoting in such frames. Read what is in the secret section of the Assembly, and you will understand that quite other things are. Regarding corruption, I would like to say to my colleague: open any reference-information publication and you will understand that out of five countries that have been given up on arms in South Africa, Brazil, the Czech Republic and Hungary for years there have been corruption cases with specific millions of euros cited in order to acquire this battle plane. I'm not saying it by accident, and I didn't make it up. And the last thing I want to say to you is that what is offered for these prices that we've talked about so far is a fully equipped F-16 platform, with absolutely everything, even things that we could hardly use in the exercises, in air Polysing, in intelligence or any other teachings, and a base, a platform on which there is nothing offered by You know that very well. It's been waving this theme in space for so long, it's no longer worth talking about. Colleagues, and another today we will vote on the future of our aviation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u68	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u69	Yeah, I found out about the weather. I hope that the 50-year anniversary of the BSP leader will be well celebrated, and on the 100th anniversary of the F-16, your leader. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u70	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. Next statement? Mr. Simeonov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u71	[[BSP for Bulgaria, from place]] I want a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u72	There's no personal explanation for the doppelganger. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I won't. Check the regulations!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Unfortunately, on this issue, we will have different positions on the parties from the Coalition. I express the position of the National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria. We will strongly vote against this decision for a number of reasons. The first reason is that we believe that such a decision will in no way guarantee the sovereignty of the Bulgarian airspace. In our program since 2011, we have staked the only way to protect the sky of Bulgaria.. and this is through missile bases, in particular land-to-air missiles. This is the cheapest, safest way to protect our heavenly space. We find it ridiculous to believe that it is ridiculous to rely on 8, respectively 16 aircraft after five years to protect the sky of Bulgaria from other military forces, which are of neighbouring countries that have 600 aircraft each, the other with 350 aircraft, not to mention the thousands of Russian planes, not to mention twice the largest fleet of Serbia. For us, this is an unreasonable, inappropriate spending of money. And if it is done, it should be done with as little money as possible. In other words, we believe that we had to focus on airplanes with European production, just as the National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria has purchased Bulgarian cars and such uses. The other reason why we do not vote in favour of such a decision is that the country's parliamentaryism is being violated and the country is already becoming not a parliamentary republic, but something quite different. There is a clear decision from July last year of the National Assembly, which lists the parameters of seven basic requirements, of which four have been violated, precisely by the offer that we are now being offered to support. There is a voted road map which is violated with today's National Assembly meeting. Obviously, it is the desire to carry out some political pirouette and to transfer responsibility from a decision of the government to the National Assembly, which must be taken by the government. That's the way it is. For this reason, we will not support this decision. Moreover, we believe that when the initial conditions in favour of one of the participants are distorted, it is disgraceful, humiliating for Bulgaria as a country. Bulgaria can hardly be defined as an independent sovereign state, under such a total change of the initial conditions. Not to mention that I do not know how we will respond to the possible appeals of our partners from Europe and from the European Union, which I am sure will appeal to such a decision, I am talking about Italy and Sweden. Swedish investments in Bulgaria provide nine thousand jobs. Italian investments in Bulgaria provide fifty-two thousand jobs. What is the signal to investors, I ask and as a businessman that at any given moment you can be played, at any moment the initial conditions can be replaced? That's what I'm saying. I also think that if this debate is to continue and it achieves consensus, this proposal should be adopted, but with the condition that the initial conditions are not violated, I mean in particular the price, the period of the first two aircraft in two years and the technical parameters that should be provided and not provided. If these initial parameters are met, if such a change has been introduced in the decision, think that I propose it, we will support such a decision. Because we are also for the Euro-Orientation and Bulgaria's participation in NATO, there is no other alternative for Bulgaria, but under these conditions it is possible, as we have already announced. If we want to offer better conditions to our American partners, let us organize a new competition. In conclusion, I think that these debates are quite shameful and disgraceful and if they sacrifice their lives in the name of Bulgaria years ago Dimitar Spisarevski witnessed these pathetic, humiliating feats, I am sure he will turn in the grave. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u74	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? I can't see. Welcome to the next speech, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u75	Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, ladies and gentlemen! We should, when we do one thing, say what situation we are in now. We are now in a situation where the government implemented the procedure assigned by the National Assembly to acquire a new multifunctional fighter plane for the Bulgarian Air Force. And I stress: Multifunctional, which means that it will not only protect the sky of Bulgaria, but will cause damage by air, land and water to the likely opponents of Bulgaria. That means a multifunctional plane.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u76	Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u77	Who?! Anyone who dares to violate the sovereignty of Bulgaria. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And he has fulfilled these rules by sending offers not to companies, but to countries and the purpose of this procedure I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, is the conclusion of an interstate treaty, a treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and another sovereign state, which has economists here, let them say: is it subject to any type of commercial arbitration? Now we are in a situation where we can do two things. Let's be white and clean and say: the proposals do not meet our wishes, we close the folders and announce a new procedure. If we do this today, we'll all be in white, but we'll leave the air force in white, and I won't say what. [[Heckling]] This will certainly lead to two things. In a year and a half we will be back here and we will discuss the same thing and, the second, we will spend a lot of folk money to support the old aviation because Bulgarian pilots have to fly and our airspace to be guarded. Secondly, we have no confidence, even the other way around, we have the deep confidence that after a year and a half these same countries will offer us perhaps those same planes at a higher price. At least the 2004 history so far confirms that any delay in resolving the modernisation of our aviation leads to an increase in price.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u78	Why did you delay them?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u79	You answer why you delayed them! Today the Minister of Defence is Mr. Karakachanov and he says: "We must not postpone because you have already postponed. The other thing that we can do is frankly and honestly say that we need to move forward, giving the government a mandate to negotiate, clearly solving three fundamental issues: the issue of price, the question of delivery deadlines and the question of payments, and these three issues must be defended on the basis of the Bulgarian national interest. I am glad that the opposition and our partners have such a critical attitude, because those who want to sell their weapons to Bulgaria must comply with the opposition's opinion, must comply with the opinion of the public, must also comply with the views of the government. The price and terms of payment and deadlines must be brought to close or equal to our conditions, voted in the summer of last year. That's what we say! We give mandate and support to the government to reach such decisions. If they are not reached if they are not protected, if the partners and those offering their products do not comply with this, we reserve the right to make a sovereign decision. Why were we as a country loyal allies of the United States and working extremely successfully on the joint use of military sites in Bulgaria? As Vice-President of IMRO, I ask: Gentlemen, do you have to return the gesture, loyally and honestly comply with our capabilities? We are good partners, we expect the same from our partners. Finally, we are accused of giving money for weapons, not pensions, not welfare. However, history has shown us that there is no social, socialist, or at all a wealthy country if it is not strong. Power makes wealth. To be rich, we must be strong. To be strong, we must have a strong, modern, national Bulgarian army. We will therefore support the IMRO mandate of the government for negotiations. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u80	Thank you, Professor Mihov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Velkov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u81	Thank you, Madam President. We, too, will support the negotiating mandate.. We do not support the diversion of the mandatory conditions from the framework. I don't know if Minister Karakachanov is here, I feel him somewhere behind me?!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u82	He's here. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u83	You, Mr. Minister, have just received another political offer in connection with the tales of populism and national security on which you are subject and not subject the price of support for this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u84	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Second line, Mr. Nedyalkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u85	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mihov, I have carefully followed your passionate speech. You said you needed a multi-purpose plane that, if violated our sovereignty, would attack. Usually, the perceptions of sovereignty are the territorial integrity of Bulgaria. How is this multi-target plane going to attack Earth objects if the troops of the other country are here? How will he act? That's what I'm putting you on as a specialist. You have passionately pleaded that the government and the Commission should negotiate, and that they should negotiate in line with our wishes. Fine, but in the draft decision proposed by the Council of Ministers on this section is written only: The project for an international treaty can deviate on the basis of the proposal received by the Government of the United States of America. There's nothing else written down. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u86	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Third line? Here you are, Mr. Mareshki, for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u87	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Mihov, it is cynical to say that by buying eight planes, we will make Bulgaria the strongest military state on the Balkan Peninsula and thus we will be able to defend our borders. The great statesmen say that money for security is given when the people are willing and have something to protect. Right now, what's to protect the people? That you left it at 200 leva again. Retirement? [[Heckling]] They have no desire. Have you asked your constituents whether they want the only point that you will fulfill in this mandate to be the purchase of the planes and everything else: Bulgarian doctors, teachers and policemen, Bulgarian pensioners to be miserable, the demographic collapse to flourish thanks to this deal? Because tomorrow, if you happen to buy those planes, there'll be no one to drive them. With the spending of this money you will expel the last young Bulgarian citizens who we rely on to develop the state of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Private applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. For the coat, Mr. Mihov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u89	Mrs. Chairman! Mr. Mareshki, you speak one thing, but in your program, which you appeared in the election, it says otherwise. It says here: the modernization of the army, active cooperation with NATO and the European Union and so on, but you have the right to develop and change your mind every day. I don't agree with the fact that buying these planes will drive the young people away. Here is also the Air Force Commander and yesterday the commander of the base of Graff Ignatevo said clearly that the new technique will be one of the factors for solving the non-completion in the Air Force and in general in our military aviation. Because it's one thing to cook on an airplane made 30 years ago, another to manage modern technology that will be produced in the next year, from the last generation. I've been paid attention to what a multi-purpose plane means, and what can it do? This is a very good answer, this is one of the factors why we start to negotiate first with the United States because it is the only offer and proposal of the state that can provide us with the delivery of the plane, the delivery of a complete set of weapons to solve all operational targets in the air, on the ground and targets on the water, all licenses and everything necessary for the operation of this weapon. I do not want to make a comparison, but the other proposal of Sweden is linked to reaching an agreement with a third country on licences, arms and technology, which binds the issue to the will of a third country. I will not call it who it is. And the question arises: why make a deal with such big risks? In this direction, I think Mr. Velkov would rather support our position than make a line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. Next statement, colleagues? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u91	Madam President, honourable Members, I will be relatively brief. Then, if you have any questions, I'll answer your questions. Firstly, I would like to remind you that our membership in NATO in 2004 gave us a chance to use all the allied advantages, namely to be an operational and technological part of the Alliance's collective defence. That means having allies with you that you can rely on in difficult times, in difficult situations. The choice of a fighter plane represents the geopolitical orientation of a country, in the case of our country, in the common coalition format. The Republic of Bulgaria relies on NATO's collective security because at this stage there is not enough purchase of eight battle multi-purpose aircraft. You know that on the next stage project are plus eight more. Europe relies on NATO protection, and especially on the United States of America. Therefore, the issue of strategic compatibility is with full force for both the Bulgarian Army and the Air Force with a major focus on the implementation of the Air Polysing tasks in NATO's integrated air service system. The political decision of the government of the Republic of Bulgaria for negotiations with the US government is a political and strategic choice for the Republic of Bulgaria. The ruling members of GERB and the United patriots made a mistake announcing a public procurement and competition when the law allows direct negotiations on national security issues for the purchase of military equipment and others. A visual example is the decision to build the second part of the fence at our southern border. The decision on the procedure should have been political from the very beginning. This is the position of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. The movement has always worked to strengthen and defend Euro-Atlanticism because this competition opposes Bulgaria to other countries and contributes to worsening interstate relations, which some of the colleagues who spoke before me also spoke about. If due to the wrong procedures it comes to sanctions against the Republic of Bulgaria, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will seek political responsibility from the government. I would like to remind once again our President's statement: our parliamentary group will support the decision to open negotiations with the United States government. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u93	Madam President, honourable Members, and I will be brief. We, as we have repeatedly stated since the beginning of the procedure, will never and in any way support the spending of Bulgarian money, earned by every Bulgarian citizen with hard, hard work, because we truly aim for every Bulgarian lev, and not as Mr Vigenin appreciates it. I would just like to remind you that in the election programs of absolutely all political parties in the forehead were talked about dealing with the demographic collapse, about increasing the incomes of Bulgarian citizens, in particular pensioners, about better and quality education and health care, about helping policemen so that they can do their job so that every Bulgarian citizen can live peacefully and peacefully. None of these things, I see, have been fulfilled in all these years, but one of the last points in each party's programme, including ours, after education, healthcare, police, young people and pensioners, is the purchase of planes. Yes, it is! But why is it that in the end, the only point and it is in the middle of the mandate, which we are going to deliver a hundred percent, we are going to vote and buy them. Something said, not half, not half, not part of a hundred percent fulfilled. Where are the other points everyone pleads for? The smell of crude lobbying that I feel at the moment in the cancellation or change, or catharsis in BSP's attitude to this issue is disgusting. We're about the meaningless spending of a few billion, but if it's a Rippen. If it's an F-16, it's no longer appropriate. This change of opinion, the first, after the meeting with an ambassador, from the "against".................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Who directs the Bulgarian people's choice, where are the decisions taken, what is appropriate for the Bulgarian people? This is the second thing that has become clear today "No one cares about the interests of the Bulgarian citizen. Nobody says: Let's ask the Bulgarian citizen does he want us to spend with his money, on behalf of him and with his money to spend this way? Therefore, we will initiate a referendum on whether this spending is appropriate, is it currently, do the Bulgarian citizens, voters of all of you, want to solve this problem first before solving all the other problems? I know that Mr. Vigenin will say: Mareshki very lowers the level by talking about income, about the interests of Bulgarian citizens, that citizens are before the hardware... [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I know that it is incomprehensible for Mr. Vigenin that ironwork, the interests of foreign countries, to create jobs for other companies, to pay taxes in other countries, to raise the level of pensions in other countries, naturally speaking against these things is lowering the level. Since I missed him last time, I am now inviting him to come and make a line to me that I am lowering the level when I talk about the interests of Bulgarian citizens to explain some more things to him. I wish you all the best of luck! Let us really be representatives of the Bulgarian people and take care of their interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. First line, Mr. Vigenin. The way you're leading it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u95	Madam President, honourable Members, I understand that the debate has acquired strange dimensions, at least since the last speech, but still needs a little respect for the Bulgarian Parliament. We're being played here to cancel our decisions, to allow the government to do whatever it wants. The Prime Minister did not come, but I think it is absolutely disrespectful not to have a minister here. Can you invite the Secretary of Defense instead of drinking coffee or not know what he's doing right now, come back and at least have the courage to listen to us, if anything?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u96	The Minister is here. He's out for a while. He'll be right in. Mr. Prime Minister is at the Council of Ministers at the moment and is therefore unable to attend the Chamber. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u97	Thank you. Madam President, here today, in the National Assembly, there are extremely important debates concerning the entire Bulgarian state, of course, and the Prime Minister. At the beginning of these debates, we invited the Prime Minister to come here, through you. He's bound to come, but so far we haven't received an answer as to where he is or why he's not coming.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u98	I just said.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u99	Please, as it is gone, and these debates without the Prime Minister are not at the necessary level, I think, and this has been proved by those who have just spoken by the ruling majority, I ask for a break until it comes to the Prime Minister's plenary. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u100	We don't have the right to rest because we have half an hour until regular rest, so I won't respect your wishes. I just said the Prime Minister is on the Council of Ministers. I've contacted Mr. Radev and Mr. Radev's office, and we've invited him to come. We expect an answer from him as well. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u101	Thank you. Madam President, it's 5:00 p.m. 11:00 p.m., so we're right and we want to take a break. On behalf of a parliamentary group, I ask for half an hour's rest, which can be extended by you, as President of the National Assembly, until the Prime Minister comes to respect the institution of the National Assembly and all Members of the National Assembly and the entire Bulgarian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u102	The break we have to take at 11:30, I'm giving it a half hour's rest now. I expect you at 11.25 to continue the debate on point two. Dear colleagues, the exhibition will be opened in the Northern Foyer The spirit of Surva, dedicated to the International Festival of Masquerade Games in Pernik. Sixteen Survakars from Pernik will present the folklore custom with dance. Please let all Members of the National Assembly feel invited. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u103	We continue with the second item of today's agenda. Mr. Siderov said a statement, then Mr. Gechev. Mr. Gechev, come in so we don't waste parliamentary time, and Mr. Siderov will speak after you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u104	Madam President, I'm going to ask for an extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u105	Extend the time of all groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u106	My fellow Members, as always, I will only stick to the facts on the basis of the Official Journal, issue 51. Firstly, I would like to say that the financial and economic parameters that are at stake are great and that is why we supported them. Here the total amount is determined, the method of payment is determined. The Ministry of Finance has taken into account the burden on the gross domestic product and on the Bulgarian economy, possibly what are the expected benefits. What is available in cash 51 to the Official Journal of the European Union as our decision? The total amount available with VAT, 1 billion. 800 million. lv. and from 2018 to 2027 payments of 100 million BGN 2021, respectively The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN 240 million lv. In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. lv. and the last instalment 2027. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) Again, this estimate is realistic, these are payments of the Republic of Bulgaria, which are within its capabilities without creating disproportions, problems and unnecessary burdens on gross domestic product and economic development. Secondly, I would like to open a clamp in this Official Gazette, issue 51. This decision since the summer of 2018 is the result of the long-standing efforts of dozens of experts, of three governments of GERB. You have convinced us in the Budget Committee, in the Defence Committee that what you offered us six months ago is the best for Bulgaria in terms of its national security and in terms of its economic and social burden for the country. We agreed and supported him just a few months ago. Now you're singing another song and it turns out that these payments, which have to be made by 2027, are now offering us one-off payments, a sum that is likely to exceed 2.5 billion directly for aircraft and weapons only immediately, probably as early as next year. Such a shock the Bulgarian economy cannot endure. The second point I would like to stress is that the competitive table presented in this project, published in the Official Journal, issue 51, concerns industrial cooperation and offset programmes. Dear colleagues, if you do not know what the Czech Republic and Hungary have achieved? The Czech Republic achieved a 130% offset programme. This means that if they pay 100 euros for an airplane, 130 euros enter the economy of the Czech Republic with new technologies and transfer, with know-how, with an expansion of leading industries, with an exit on international markets. Hungary has reached a contract for 110% offset programmes. Out of $100 for arms, $110 went into Hungary. By the way, almost 90 percent of this amount was the company "Elektrolux" which led to about 5% increase in Hungary's gross domestic product, according to their data, as a result of the development of modern technologies and manufacturing in the field of electronics and electrical industry. Poland managed to achieve a offset programme in early 2003 2004 and the money remained in Poland for up to a penny. And that was generally based on the decision of six months ago. Now you're offering us a new option. We don't know what the amount will be above the estimated billion and 800 million. There will be no deferred payment until 2027 and we will load the Bulgarian people with one huge, impossible amount in one year. And thirdly, just stretching out locums what will be the industrial effect for Bulgaria. Look, we have to respect the policies of other countries and nations. Certain suppliers do not have a policy of offset programs. They sell their guns, they want their money, and they don't fight anymore, and that's their right to sell. But it is our right here, as MPs, to vote for an option that is useful not only for national security but also for the Bulgarian economy. In addition, the estimated additional costs must be calculated in the Official Journal of the European Union. We all understand that these are just the starting costs of buying airplanes. Whether they will be armed is the difference, experts will say is about 80 million. lv. The additional electronic equipment, experts say, for eight planes is about 20 million. lv. That is to say, it is about a price difference of about 100 million. lv. according to experts in this area. So from there we begin to do calculations: do they have to change and how much the runways will cost; how much will it cost to prepare planes for flying and for their maintenance and repair; who will do the repairs; what will be ground equipment? All this, to our delight, is described in the Official Gazette, issue 51, which you draw off. Next thing you know, we said, "We don't comment on the technical parameters of the aircraft." Hardly anyone can clearly tell which plane is better than whether European production, whether American, have pros and cons. In addition, there is no country that does not take into account the economic performance of a flight hour. And the richest countries of the United States of America are doing the math. The United States magazine of that day writes that due to a shortage of funds 60% of the F-16 in the Navy does not fly because you know that there is currently a blockade of the United States' budget expenditure for other reasons. The richest country in the world is doing the math, and that's right, because military spending is always limited. But what's going on here with the goods that we have to give billions of levs for, no matter where this stuff comes from? In cash 51 writes, I quote: "First, the plane is manufactured and is in armaments in at least one NATO member country, and correctly, or the European Union, you write here. This plane isn't on any weapons right now. The second rule is that the aircraft type is in service at the present time. You say "Student newspaper," page 20! He's not operational anywhere, he's a dream plane! This plane has been drawn, there is some initial prototype that they are trying to fly somewhere in Taiwan, but it is not operational and is not armed anywhere in the NATO or European Union countries! You've written the delivery term for three years. Dear colleagues, when you make this decision now, you know that the delivery of the new, however good the plane is, it will probably be good, it will be in five or six years! Right now you are writing the obituary of Bulgarian aviation, because at the moment it is failing.. only a few MiGs fly from time to time due to the shortage of spare parts; the repair of the engines you made is crappy! I mean, in a year or two, these planes will be grounded. So you say that three or four years Bulgaria will have no aviation at all! And we will not risk the lives of Bulgarian pilots because of your whims! Furthermore, as I have already said, with this proposal, you are completely violating the financial framework. In addition, honourable Members, you are violating the principle of competition. I heard from my colleagues in the media, and I just can't believe what I'm hearing about this was a procedure, not a competition. Ladies and gentlemen, how is it not competition when you have published in the Official Journal, number 51 comparative table with technical and economic parameters? Is this a joke? You're joking with Britain, Sweden, Germany, Italy, Portugal! Did you make jokes about our partners from the European Union in the Official Journal?! Here's the table of comparisons for the State Gazette, issue 51. [[Shows it.]] And you say this was a procedure. This is violence in the Bulgarian language. It's all a procedure. The procedure is a competition, the tender is a procedure, negotiations with a potential seller or buyer are also a procedure. You've written that the procedure is a competition. It's written in the documents. So it's a contest. Otherwise, why do you do the methodology? Because you will calculate the weight of the individual indicators of the competition! Therefore, the scariest thing is that you are crossing the competition right now, denying the Bulgarian government it wants to deprive itself, punishing itself by the opportunity to oppose different suppliers and achieve the best quality at the best price. In addition, you say about the price and the additional equipment - see, ladies and gentlemen, here you have signed very precisely in the Official Journal, your number 51 - your publication that there are three options: you buy an airplane with equipment or you buy an airplane with equipment that is purchased from a third party; or you buy an airplane with equipment and armaments from a third party. You write it! Excuse me, did you just find out that warplanes in Europe use rockets and local production and the United States?! Why did you write in the Official Journal, issue 51? Did you lie to us six months ago? Did you cheat us six months ago? [[Replying and shouting: "Eee!" by GERB.]] You wrote that you knew the missiles were from there. Every child can access the Internet and see that rockets are both joint production in Europe and in the United States. In addition, in the Budget Committee, you tried to mislead the Commission, and you almost threatened us with the fact that if you bought an airplane that wasn't produced in the United States, the Deputy Minister of Defence said in a straight text.. then we can expect that our US partners will increase the cost of the missiles two, three or more times. Is that blackmail? What about the planes that fly in the Czech Republic and Hungary, what rockets do they fly with? Or do they fly with the flags of Hungary and the Czech Republic? They are flying rockets provided by the supplier of their aircraft, which they have decided to buy under competitive conditions! Therefore, you know that we are a member of NATO, now some people understand about Euro-Atlantic co-operation. Good afternoon! Now you understand that we are a member of the European Union! And now you're suddenly changing the law passed by the National Assembly because you found out we were buying missiles from the United States! Well, why shouldn't we buy? They're good rockets. There's no company that's going to manufacture the missiles, and it's not going to sell them. Your suggestion that our trusted partner... this great country... I cannot assume that the United States will put Bulgaria in the corner and will blackmail us with prices for rockets that exceed the prices of rockets that go to Hungary and the Czech Republic! I absolutely don't let that happen on this side. Furthermore, honourable Members, three very important economic considerations. First of all, this amount we are talking about, you are saying that around 2.5 billion, higher than a billion and 800, although it can be 4 billion, you are not saying what it will be; we are saying that it will come out over 5 billion. Where are your accounts? You don't have the bills! You say it's going to be more than a billion and 800 million. Make it 2.5 billion, as the Secretary of Defense knows what they told him. If it's about 2.5 billion, colleagues, do you know what that means? The first This is exactly the net transfer of the European Union to Bulgaria. Three and a half billion goes into the budget, right? One billion leva is Bulgaria's contribution to two and a half billion is the difference! That is, you, by ruining the competition now, tell the countries Germany, Sweden, Italy, Portugal, Spain: thank you for your money from your taxes; we cancel you from the competition in Bulgaria and exactly your money Well, that's called "euro-solidarity" to take European taxpayers' money and toss it across the ocean! Good job on that transfer! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Secondly, it is known everywhere that it is forbidden for budgets around the world to invest money in risky investments. You know that Bulgaria's fiscal reserve is correct in government securities, mainly leading countries with stable financial systems? Is that right? That's right. Do you know that governments can't invest money in venture capital and research? Because now what comes out, with all due respect to this great and leading economy, the United States of America? Will the poorest people of the European Union finance their risky research? Because the new model of their plane is on the drawing board and is being tested right now. Poor Bulgaria, you want you from a dead letter, we will now finance the research, fly it, not fly it, get a plane in six years! Which country spends budget funds on risky investments? Nowhere, ladies and gentlemen! The third economic argument, which is very important. Excuse me, colleagues from GERB, for the third time you will import a billion and a half for airplanes and ships. Who are you lying to? First you ruin national security, third time you write a billion and a half about planes and ships and don't spend it! You report a false surplus at the end of the year, you fight in the chest and you hop those billions you distribute before Christmas as Santa Claus, to whom two groups will vote in a few minutes! That's how you distribute them. You deprive Bulgarian aviation of third year planes! You're depriving the Bulgarian Navy of ships! You're lying in the budget for a billion and a half! You're lying, it's an excess! You're ruining the Bulgarian army! And what do you make an account of now that you will be negotiating for another year, year and a half, and you will be piling up those billion and a half for 2019?! [[Reply from the National Representative Boris Vangelov.]] So the money you're spending is very much the result is none. [[Arrival in GERB and OP.]] I'm going to finish with this: a famous lawyer had warned you not to give an empty check that you want right now may deviate from the mandatory requirements. How much you don't say. Secondly, you say that these negotiations will only be with one side, which means that you bury the competition and say: dear friends, leave us in power. We at BSP will not pay and will not give billions to the Bulgarian people to stay in power, and those who will soon vote with you to distribute the billions at the end of the year and the Bulgarian army to die! Shame on you! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u107	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? Mr. Siderov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u108	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! To bring you back to the topic of today's discussion, we will decide to assign the government to negotiate with the United States government for the purchase of a specific aircraft. This is the subject of our discussion. We have to decide whether or not to assign it to the government. Everything else is pathos, emotions. I'll get you back to pragmatism. Nowadays we live in a pragmatic world. At the head of the country, which was most frequently mentioned here, the United States stands a very good president, Donald Trump, who says so: which is beneficial to the United States, will be followed as a policy. At the head of the other great power, Russia stands a very good president, Putin, who says: what is profitable for Russia, we will do it this way. We have an acute deficit in Europe of leaders who say the same thing: what is beneficial for us, for Europe, for European countries, we will do so. Let's land in Bulgaria. What is beneficial for Bulgaria? Let's look at the bills. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since I've been doing this for many years, I'll tell you that since 2006. For 13 years the United States, not NATO, I stress, and the US government has used four military bases for free in Bulgaria. The richest country in the world uses four bases in the poorest country in Europe, so it is at least according to the................................... for free. Is that good, is it fair, is it pragmatic, is it justified? I don't know. You can find such commentators to say that this is justified, because for example we get... I don't know what we're getting, but there might be something I don't know. For me, however, it is not justified, and in this regard, unlike the speakers who have been practicing here today, have spoken very passionately, there have been very serious arguments in what they have said, I am acting pragmatically. These things, ladies and gentlemen, are written as suggestions. And I propose, first of all, that I present to the President of my proposal, this is the following: in connection with our decision to make a decision for the government to negotiate with the United States, I complement: to assign the Bulgarian government to negotiate with all the countries that have any proposal to us. These include our European partners. We have heard here arguments that some of them may remain affected. No, we don't want anyone to be affected, we want to negotiate with everyone except the United States, for example Sweden. Excuse me, wasn't Sweden outside NATO? I don't think he's a NATO member. It doesn't matter, we're negotiating. It is a European country. Italy yes, Portugal. With every country that has offers to us, let's negotiate. I also submit a proposal to negotiate with the Russian Federation, as this is a non-NATO country, there is a great technique and can offer good offers. Since we are the National Assembly, we must decide because we are the highest authority. Let's act like we're responsible. Not to complain, not to complain like aunts in line from what we're being offered, but to say so. If the Prime Minister is here or not, if we assign him, he will be obliged to do it. Let us ask the government, headed by Prime Minister Borisov, to implement our decision and to include negotiations with all countries that can offer us something. Next item I wrote. I'm not going to read, because the text is legal, dryer, I'm going to tell it. The next item we propose is for the National Assembly to take part in these negotiations, to broadcast one representative from each parliamentary group and to participate in this group, which will negotiate with the relevant governments, whether it will be with the United States, Sweden, Italy, Portugal, the Russian Federation, China, India. Otherwise, what kind of control do we have over something we're going to vote on now?! We don't. Some working group in which my respect has military, there are deputy ministers, but there must be representatives of the highest legislative body. That's what I'm suggesting. The next thing I propose is that there is a record here of the negotiations already in particular with the United States, to take into account that since 2006, there has been free use of military bases, of Bulgarian military facilities and facilities and in this connection to be provided if, after the negotiations, we stop at these F-16 aircraft, they are granted free of charge. In this way we liquidate all the questions related to billions of dollars here were tossed away some billions and, with a clear conscience, we can tell our voters that we placed this money and will use it better as appropriate and as Bulgarian interest requires. Whether they're going to be in a social area, whether they're going to be in the direction of our election promises that we made because they're going to be rubbing them in. We will be those who, the Patriots, I mean, who will ask us, what happened to the pensions that you promised them? And we'll have to keep our mouths shut. I'm offering something that's reasonable. In this way, I lend my hand and help both my coalition partner Minister Karakachanov and the Prime Minister and the entire government. If we accept these proposals, then the government will have cards with which it will be able to demand. If we vote on the decision as it is presented now, we fix, restrict, prejudge already a deal that I do not know is good. I cannot say because there is a folklore expression in Bulgaria everyone understands politics and football. Now we understand that everyone knows about planes and rockets. I don't know about planes, but we don't need to know about planes. The question is to understand from the Bulgarian national interest. The Bulgarian national interest says so: Sitting down to negotiate with any government, to demand the most advantageous conditions for Bulgaria. If anyone disagrees with this, come say it here, from the stands. Leave it, don't think about how targeted they are, where the missiles are fired from and where they fall. These aren't our subjects. We must decide the most beneficial option for Bulgaria. Let us include all the countries with which to negotiate, let us include the Russian Federation why not?! I can't understand why as lepers we point out that it can't be. Turkey, a NATO member, buys Russian launchers. Isn't that right?! Other countries, also NATO members, I think, also have this technique. So the question is, what's profitable, what's effective? I also don't know if we'll be better off with fighters, or if we'll be better off with fighters, as my colleague Simeonov said with launchers. Let the specialists say that. When we include one representative from each parliamentary group in the negotiating group, he will bring experts and they will point to him, they will lead him to the right decision. This is my proposal, Madam President. I'll leave it to you. If any of the other groups have anything to say, let's do it in the form of a proposal. Now we're entitled to this editing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u109	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. I'll put it to the vote. Replies to Mr. Siderov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u110	Let's get this debate over with. We've got a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u111	Shall we get this over with? Mr. Gazhev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u112	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to distract some of the delusions that many Members of Parliament seem to continue to experience to this day. The project is not a competition procedure or a procedure under the POP, as some may have gone wrong, perhaps because the other two projects are such. There apply companies and the procedure goes under the Public Procurement Act. Here from the very beginning, Bulgaria has been negotiating with countries and with the governments of the countries in question. The offers sent to Bulgaria are sent by the governments. The people who are referred to as contact are colonels of the armies of these countries. We can't talk about a kind of similar procedure here, with opportunities for arbitration, trade relations and so on. Bulgaria does not negotiate with companies, the Bulgarian government has not had talks with companies, but only with the governments of different countries. The sovereign right of the Bulgarian state is to decide who to negotiate with. That's exactly what we're doing right now. Once we have received the proposals from the three countries, the analysis shows that at least for the newly produced two aircraft they do not meet the criteria. Both their prices come from above. They're both over 1 billion. and 800 with VAT. This isn't about small differences. I will quote my respected General Simeonov, who earlier said that these additional costs can also reach 30% of the initial cost for the acquisition of additional equipment and equipment. So it's not about small costs. What does the government really propose? The government proposes that we give the four ministers a mandate to negotiate, to achieve better conditions, to fit into better conditions than those we have given. We have a clear commitment from the US government that they are willing. Such a commitment by the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden so far has not been clearly expressed, unfortunately. I hope they want to improve their offer and offer. Why do we choose to negotiate with the United States? Because they are the only country that provides the full version, the full set of abilities, the complete set of weapons, equipment, training and so on. Yeah, it's more expensive, but it's the full set. Where are the risks, for example, if we decide today to negotiate with the Kingdom of Sweden, to move forward in the other country? The main risk binds the Swedish Government itself. They bind the supply after Bulgaria has concluded negotiations with third parties on licenses, technology transfer, acquisition of additional equipment and weapons. Only then will they deliver a plane. Let's sign today until the next negotiation is completed, there's no way they can deliver it. The Swedish government itself says that they will not deliver it to us and it is no secret, it has been clear for many years. About the extra costs, about the offset. Let us get acquainted with the current legislation in the European Union on indirect offset. There is a directive on supplies in the field of defence. It's very clear what it can and can't do. Everything else is speculation. As for what is clear and clear from the public documents, the Swedish Government offers a supply of factory for repair and maintenance of our aircraft. What the U.S. government is offering and has always offered us is to build us the capacity to do it ourselves. The main difference is that in the long term instead of paying to a private plant for maintenance, verification and overall maintenance of aircraft, we will be able to do so in our own capacity, the Bulgarian state. And that's the main difference. From my experience to date and with the agreements that we've had for various supplies of other fighting equipment over the years, I believe that this is the main cost that we then load. In the long term, the US government's offer, rather co-operation with the US government, could come out far more profitable for Bulgaria than anyone else. Just to distract one more false news that one plane was only on paper. Yesterday at the Commission meeting and many times before that, and the military expertise itself said that this plane is already flying and is in armaments in other countries. Everything else is speculation. This is the only correct solution, the only solution that is pragmatic, appropriate and possible from now on. Because the alternative to BSP is nothing. You don't say what happens next. What you suggest we do, if we support your decision, is take everything back a year and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u113	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. - What's the line? I can't see. Procedure in the manner of conduct. But only in the manner of conduct, not in terms of substance! What are you unhappy about, Mr. Velkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u114	Madam President, 25 minutes ago you stated that you treated the Bulgarian military with infinite respect and promised to treat me the same way. Please follow it! I ask you not to allow the speakers to insinuate lies from the stands of the National Assembly. Let the one who claims this plane is armed in many countries stand up and prove it. We claim he's not anywhere in arms. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u115	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable colleagues, honored guests, Deputy Minister, generals! Firstly, and yesterday in the Commission, I said I would like to thank all those who in some way helped with this investment project, which we have heard from colleagues, started in 2004. These are a number of experts dealing with this matter, including politicians. And thank you all to the left, to the right, no matter. Secondly, anyone who stands on this stand should start with gratitude to GERB Political Party GERB, with the United Patriarchs. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, to talk today that we are choosing between two wonderful aircraft or between perhaps more, but at the moment two are the most prominent F-16, the American, by NATO, our strategic partner, and the JAS 39 or the Gripen. of our partner from the European Union, from Sweden, is a great achievement. I'm listening to my colleagues from the opposition. Have some, how can I say, I don't want to use any other words, but be a little more restrained! I would like to remind you that at your time, with your participation in governments, you managed to modernise the Bulgarian Army by buying only air transport vehicles and not only for Land Forces, if we added transportation, from Germany. That's what you couldn't do. GERB reached twice, and successfully. The first time we almost had a political time to buy a fighter vehicle, which we are talking about, I stress again, you said it, I think the minister said it in the Commission for the first time since 2004. 2013, 2015, just mentioning, F-16, then F-18 would buy, then I participated, Portugal, F-16, and now we have two wonderful airplanes on the table. So thanks to everyone I started with, and especially the party, which has consistently over the years, made it possible for us to talk about it today. We talk with details and I'll tell you what the details are. In fact, the big problem, the big thing that is happening today, so I said in the Commission a good day for the Bulgarian army and the armed forces is that this will finally happen. What's so special about it? What's special is that there's excitement in this process. I can't figure out what this excitement is. Why are we heading for F-16? I'm telling you, I don't understand! Excuse me, fellow Members, but if I stop at just a few, there is no Mr. Mareshki suppression of the task, I am an engineer, but I think and it is easy for me to say: we are all aware that we are members of NATO, that NATO ensures to the greatest extent our national security............................................................ Five on the Washington Treaty. And we, as collective members, can guarantee it not by five, not by 16 or 8, and 30 aircraft to have, if we do not have collective defence, we will not be able to defend ourselves against anyone, or at least by a force greater than ours. And around us, you say it yourself, you all point out what numbers, if we're talking about airplanes, have other countries. That's right! No one disputes that the Bulgarian Army should be upgraded. And BSP supports the opposition as a whole. In my opinion, no one is questioning why we should choose F 16. I've been asking this question since 2012 and no one can answer me. Why did the government have to ask you to do this again, when it is clear and there is a political solution? Take it from NATO, deal with the Americans and buy an F-16. Yes, you said it yourself: and we tremble for BGN Bulgarian, not only you, honourable colleagues from the opposition. We asked once again, to take another look, to review the material, to see if there is any other plane that can meet our conditions under the restrictions that we, Parliament, have voted on? That's what the government did. And again it turns out that F-16 for reasons that I will not expose, are written in the Project Resolution Report, if someone has read it, there is written: changes in the security environment and so on. I don't want to get into the details. I'm not going to say anything about the technical characteristics of F-16 and of Gripen I said, wonderful planes, at least out of respect for the pilots who are in the room, and you and I are not experts. Here, a fellow opposition Member spoke nicely: we must take the political decision, of course, the government, and we must confirm it, ratify it. When I said restrictions, I guess there's no question about them. So what we have to decide is what these four points say, actually three, because the first two are congruent: should we give them the right to go out of the frames? It says, "Can the mandatory things that are written in the Project come out or not?" That's one. And four ministers are going to negotiate. So no one is talking about whether there are four, two or one, and ten to go, only to make sure that at the lowest cost we take the best. So our problem right now is to give them a mandate to do this good thing and thus do it. It is not true that we are replacing Parliament's vote. How many decisions have been changed in parliament? It's a parliament decision. How many laws are we changing? Is that our problem? If this leads to something better to protect national security, it's not a problem at all. The problem is the money yes, the problem is the delivery time. Some things we say to the government: agree them best if you can down, if you can't tell us the framework, and then it will come in here, ladies and gentlemen. And you and I will say yes or no to this. What's your problem with supporting us today, the opposition, I'm looking at you? The most important thing, because there are officers here, and I'm done with this, is that we don't take too long. If you want there to be no modernization, no airplanes, no money for the old technique, and let's not take quick steps, vote against it and do not support us. But I ask and hope that our colleagues from GERB will all support what has been tabled by the government. What Prime Minister Borisov has imported, here is Deputy Prime Minister Karakachanov, is the good for Bulgaria and those who support it all, because we will support it, will remain in history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u117	Thank you, Mr. Radev. Are there any lines to his statement? I won't. Are there any speeches, honourable Members? Here you are, General Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u118	Madam President, honourable Members! I've heard a lot of expert speeches. Far be it from me to think I'm the greatest expert in this area, but there's no way I'm not gonna get involved. Firstly, to express my great gratitude to all those who have worked on this for many years, because there was no way to reach this point and make an informed decision without having the result of the work, from the work of these experts. It's been a long process, but we haven't finished it, we're somewhere in the middle, and from now on, we've got tough decisions to make, you know, ending, God forbid, with the ratification of a contract to acquire a new type of plane. Did the government choose the right path at this stage to propose to the National Assembly to participate in this process? I think it was absolutely correct because the government wants at this stage the National Assembly to perform its control functions. If we make a decision as proposed, the government will have the confidence that we are going in the right direction. We may save time because if we do not go through this procedure now, it may be that the MPs, due to lack of information, may not ratify the treaty. Then what are we doing? We start over and postpone the trial for years. As a former commander of the Air Force, as head of defense, as a pilot, as a general, I'll allow myself to say why the government is headed and we approve it to acquire F-16 from the United States. I'm not gonna talk here that the F-16 has a longer duration, a bigger battle load and so on. They're offering a full package of guns. It's a pack full of guns! It came to the point that Europe can offer us only rockets, air, and the survey has shown that these missiles are two, two and a half times more expensive than Americans. Secondly, we are offered a high-tech new radar. A mandatory requirement that we have declared is that this radar can simultaneously operate on air and ground targets. Only this radar meets these requirements. In order not to go into detail, I will only quote a friend of mine who made the difference between old and new technologies like this: the difference between this radar and the radar that others offer us is like the difference between a phone and an optical cable. By the way, the Greeks made a decision, invested billions to replace their radar on planes. The new generation has new radars from the new generation. I suppose the Secretary of Defense would be interested in how much it would cost us in five or ten years if we had to change those radars to be adequate? Other than that, we're talking about special equipment. Special equipment, ladies and gentlemen, I'll give you a very light explanation of what it means. This means information technology so that we can really participate in the war of high technology; it means having a radio station that is protected, not keeping radio silence; it means having an information system that gives you the overall picture...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u119	Did you just find that out?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u120	No, we don't get it now. I say the advantages, Mr. Gechev, which you do not know them because you have to make an informed decision. He gives you the whole picture: who attacks you, where he attacks you, what mode his radio works, how he will control you. It gives these libraries an opportunity. It's the software that, based on intelligence, gives you the opportunity to plan your mission, where to go, what to do when you're attacked. It's about saving lives, our pilots. It gives you a new system that shows you who's yours, who's a stranger. I can talk forever here. The difference, in fact, between what one is offering us and the difference in the entire package that is being offered to us by the United States, makes the plane a high-tech combat system, with opportunities for serious protection and for high-profile hits, which are already the requirements of modern war. What is the advantage of this proposal? This proposal and the decision that we have to vote on says: "We will continue modernizations. Give us a mandate to negotiate on the basis of the proposal, on the basis of the way we have come so far, in order to achieve a better price and better conditions. What GERB says is that we oblige the Council of Ministers to work integrated, because the assessment is not only to measure how much is the tire of the These are complex solutions, and you yourself said that there are geopolitics, economy, finance and whatnot. As you can see, there is an internal policy. I believe that if we speak nationally responsible, if we take these promises to the Bulgarian Army, to the Bulgarian Air Force, we must support such a decision in order not to come to an end to the process, which will take a long time. I understand your opinions, I accept them, I respect Mr. Simeonov's opinion. He's offering a solution. I'm stopping! Please give your proposal. If we vote against it now, what happens next? Or say fair and square: let's go with someone else to negotiate. However, give it in concrete terms, and this is the honest and honest approach. Our honest and honest approach is to fulfill what we have promised we will modernise the army, we will fulfill the desire of the military leadership of General Botsev, General Iliev, General Stoykov to modernise the army, to build military capabilities. We will also fulfill the desire of the people who are now on duty, the people who are flying and risking their lives, to have a modern fighting tool. That's what we want, that's why I'm going to vote in person. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u121	Thank you, General Popov. Are there any lines? There are no lines. Are there any other speeches that we continue to make? Here you are, Mr. Christov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u122	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear Mr. Deputy Minister of Defense, gentlemen generals! The Republic of Bulgaria as a country of the eastern flank of NATO continues to contribute to the implementation of measures for adapted front presence of the Alliance in our region. In this regard, the modernisation of the country's armed forces is one of the priorities of both the government and the National Assembly. Seeing that the environment of security is characterized by high dynamism, increasing unpredictability, diverse and difficult predictable environments are shared by everyone. After Bulgaria's accession to NATO, almost 2 billion were spent immediately after a period of about ten years. lv. to acquire new equipment and armaments. Because of the misunderstanding of the process by the then political leadership, by the then politicians who have concluded the treaties or for other political reasons, there is no responsible political control over these processes. The results of the wrong political decisions made then for the purchase of non-combat aircraft and helicopters for the Air Force was first, slowing down the integration of the Bulgarian air force. Secondly, delaying indefinitely the achievement of full interoperability and, of course, freezing the construction of combat capabilities. A detailed plan for the implementation of the main projects is established in the investment expenditure project adopted as Annex 2. In keeping with the order and logic of this plan, the Council of Ministers issued two orders -- R 120 and 165, creating two working groups working together. The aim of both is to optimize the evaluations, optimize the offers and make a proposal to the Council of Ministers that meets the actual and best proposals. And according to this. 3 of Annex 2 of the Project was submitted to the Council of Ministers a summary report. The process of work of the two groups was transparent all the time. All actions were aimed at achieving greater accuracy and greater completeness of military technical expertise, unlike the time of the first procedure, which we were convinced was not so. In the two projects for investment expenditure adopted by the National Assembly is indicated, and here I quote: the acquisition of a modern battle plane is a complex process, subject to numerous geopolitical, military technical, financial, economic and legal factors, with which the contractor, in this case the government of the Republic of Bulgaria, is involved in their analysis and decision making as a result of the analysis of these factors. It is clear from what was said above that military technical analysis is not the only factor. He's part of making the decision. During the implementation of the first procedure, due to the lack of sufficient experience of the then leadership of the Ministry of Defence, the process was left entirely in the hands of the team leader. This was found in the work of the Temporary Commission. This is the period in which everyone was given the vision of the team leader that the choice of a new type of fighter plane is based entirely and solely on military technical expertise. However, such a decision is unilateral, incomplete and poses a danger of serious deviation from the country's interests, as has happened between ages. The report submitted to us indicates that the first and main conclusion in the final report drawn up by the Joint Group is that the proposals submitted in response to the RfI (Inquiry for Information) do not contain sufficient information. And one more thing. Once again, I quote that due to the fact that the correct application of the methodology was hindered by the absence, by the failure to provide the necessary information on some of the issues, the evaluations received do not allow for an objective comparison of the operational and price efficiency of the compared proposals. All this comes to show that military technical expertise in this case cannot be the basis for a decision by the government. The Investment Expenditure Project adopted in 2018 states that, given its complexity, durability and significance and, note, as well as the strategic partnership opportunities with the country concerned, it is considered appropriate that the acquisition of the relevant resources be carried out through the conclusion of an international public contract government. What can be the consequences, honourable Members, if we do not support the government's proposal? Those who question the procedure are clearly aiming to collapse the process, delay and, if possible, to end the process of modernization of the Bulgarian air force. This means a waste of time, which is not only a waste of financial resources but, above all, a loss of abilities for the Bulgarian air force. The government, in order to be strong in its negotiations, defending the Bulgarian interest, must be supported by the entire Bulgarian parliament, without exception! [[(Calls from BSP for Bulgaria.) Why? Why?]] Because by limiting the support for the Bulgarian government, we thus indicate that we are not united [[(Calls from BSP for Bulgaria.) We are not! So?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] that we do not support modernisation, we strive to stop the process. We didn't, unfortunately! Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u123	Thank you, Mr. Christov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Tsvetanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u124	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, the Bulgarian Parliament must take an important strategic and political decision. This is a continuation of the decisions we have made here in Parliament and the topics discussed at the Advisory Council for National Security with the President of the country. Many people have spoken about it and against it have spoken, but I want to give a small chronology because, as has been requested by colleagues who have already spoken, each of us must make his informed choice and the Bulgarian public, who had all these doubts that there will be a closed meeting, give an exact clear answer with the open debate and the opportunity to have an open meeting. In 2010 in the first cabinet of Prime Minister Borisov we started fulfilling our commitment to investment expenditure and modernization of the Bulgarian army at the time. I can say that in 2012 there was a closed procedure which was voted by the Council of Ministers and this procedure had to be examined in the Bulgarian Parliament. Due to certain events that were provoked during this period, a political crisis has occurred and we went to early parliamentary elections. I just want to say for this period that I appreciate the qualities and dignity of the flyer Rumen Radev. In the period back then, there was a concept of building a defense ability. This report on this concept was signed precisely by Rumen Radev, and it was in 2012 and, notice, in the conclusions: the used fighter plane in a package proposed by Portugal and the US has expressed the best complex indicators and the most fully meets the established requirements. In confirmation of everything that the working group has done and the expertise that all those who participated in it have also interviewed my respected pilot Rumen Radev, who, by the way, talks about exactly what the deficits could be if it did not come to modernization and investment expenditure that our country should do. He very clearly answers when asked whether such a cost should be made, whether such a technique should be purchased, he says: "The question is not whether we need it, but when we can take such a plane as soon as possible. The delay in the project will result in the loss of our air sovereignty, and this is a risk to our national security. This is the pilot Rumen Radev. This is the pilot Rumen Radev, who gives expertise that the best is F-16. These are his conclusions and answers that he gave in this particular interview. However, what is the change that occurred when Rumen Radev is already a politician when he is already nominated by one political force and when he already has the relevant ties and perhaps dependence on this political force? During all these years, let us be correct and objective, Rumen Radev is also the person who participates in changing the conditions in the Ordinance of P 7, which is related to depreciation and investment costs, which will make the state. Then, in fact, with this regulation in the Oresharski office, it is finished. And that is why in this procedure, which then goes, to actually, there are no necessary costs provided for in the current depreciation project that will be incurred in the flight cycle. What is extremely important, and here must be very clearly said because it was said about solidarity, the European countries choose what and what Bulgaria chooses? Dear colleagues from BSP, from NATO Member States in the European Union, these are ten countries, have purchased F-16 because, naturally, this is the best. And NATO member states in the European Union, which have purchased "Gripen" are only two. Sweden is not a NATO member state. Sweden always retains its sovereignty and neutrality to participate in any such missions and operations. Today we need to take into account what is the security environment, how it is changing and what is happening in the Black Sea region. Today we must bear in mind what expertise and what political decisions have been made by NATO member states that are our neighbours. These are Romania, Greece, Turkey. They're also with the F-16s. It is very important to know what the United States has committed all these years to building the security capacity of our country, because so far, and I do not know why it is not reported by BSP, over 300 million. lv. are investments made both in infrastructure and also in trainings to build this capacity. When we talk about national security, we need to make the right strategic decision. Here, the only party that has been consistent all these years is a movement for rights and freedoms, for which I thank them. This has been stated by their chairman. And for the political decisions they have taken from the very beginning of the transition period in the important decisions that our country should have made, both for the European Union and for NATO. Today, we also need to take into account, because this has not been said by anyone so far, that in the proposal that is being held in this debate, which is being held for the choice made by the working group, by the Council of Ministers and what we are going to take today as a decision, there is no hidden expenditure to be offered by the United States. And what we can guess is about the extra hidden expense that needs to be made if we have another solution and give the government a mandate. This means that someone needs to appreciate what he will be and this cost will come out in a period when we will not be able to defend him politically then. I appeal to my colleagues from the BSP, whether they are consistent in the position and support we gave President Radev in May 2017, when the Advisory Council on National Security took place and when we all unanimously supported that the modernization of the Bulgarian army should be started and speeded up. Let us remember the month of June 2018, when right here in the Bulgarian Parliament, we had to vote on this investment expenditure and be able to give the government a mandate to continue and submit what we are discussing today. Honourable Members, then all parliamentary groups, without the "Volja" supported this investment expenditure, because at that time no one knew who the choice would be, which the working group would propose and which would be the solution that the Council of Ministers would offer us. Here are the questions as to whether anyone has defended other interests, and when they have voted for improved decisions that we have voted here and united all of us, we have predicted the choice? Let me remind you that President Radev was very interested in all the procedures that have been running in the last few weeks when he made a call for radio silence. But he wanted to have all the information about the working group, the ones who work, what are their milestones. Was that to put some pressure on us and not let the experts make those decisions? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I thank everyone who worked actively. I believe that now is the time to give support to the Bulgarian government to start negotiations and to have a finalisation of an agreement that has been offered to us for ratification, and then I think that many of these issues that we are discussing today will be clear. I am convinced that the Bulgarian government will protect Bulgaria's national security and we will be able to have the respective integrated fighting ability and capacity building...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u125	The weather, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u126	...to be part of NATO. Thank you. And I'm sure everyone will make an informed choice! Thanks to Angel Naydenov, a worthy military minister. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Search": "Search!"]] Unfortunately, however, few have the courage in the BSP parliamentary group to express their informed choice today. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u127	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u128	Dear Bulgarian citizens, today is really an important day for Bulgaria. It is rare in parliament that such strategic decisions are made with a long-term outcome. The vote seems to have already been decided after we have all stated our positions, and perhaps this decision will pass. The result of this, however! In the way the Bulgarian government conducted this procedure, I am convinced that our American partners have embarrassed the United States of America in your eyes. This one, first. Secondly, you embarrassed Bulgaria in front of our European partners by refusing talks with Member States of the European Union, European companies to continue this procedure. Thirdly, perhaps most importantly, without knowing how much exceeds the decision of the National Assembly, i.e. taking an indefinite amount of money from yours, from ours, to all Bulgarian taxpayers for this deal, contrary to the decision of the National Assembly. Fourth, this procedure and this decision added additional water to the mill of the interinstitutional war, as we have heard today, in favour of a presidential institution. For statehood, after the executive forces force the legislature to give it the power not to comply with the laws of Bulgaria, because the parliament's decision taken in 2018, has the power of law. And today, if you were smarter [[Shouting from GERB and OP: "Eee! "]] Perhaps you should have suggested that we cancel that decision and adopt another decision, not give authority to violate the law of the state. [[Noise and lines.]] Last effect on the political space in Bulgaria. This strategic decision for Bulgaria will be taken by GERB, DPS and VMRO! Does this look like a new governing coalition in the political space of Bulgaria? This is what I wanted to say to the Bulgarian society, to the Bulgarian citizens. The position of BSP, no matter how hard you try to denigrate it, is consistent and clear: for the modernization of the Bulgarian army, for the rule of law and after the Bulgarian Parliament has decided something, the executive should perform it for the professionalism and authority of the military expertise, which was hidden from us today after we were not given the report, about the reasonable balance in the spending of the Bulgarian budget, which combines the care for national security, but also the social policy and the economy of the country. Because of these positions, which are clear and consistent over the years, as you already know, the BSP will not support this decision! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u129	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Tsonev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u130	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Ms. Ninova is right today is an important day for both the Bulgarian Parliament and Bulgarian citizens and the national security of Bulgaria! It is important not because we are in procedural action on one decision, but it is important because we need to confirm our strategic choice. We have stated our position: the party president and the parliamentary group said from this platform why and for what reasons we will support this decision. But at the same time, we also said something else: why it had to come to today's meeting after our party's opinion in 2017 was that it is better to go without competition and procedures similar to this one. Because buying a fighter plane is a strategic choice, it's not a commercial choice, which you actually made with this procedure. Because that decision depends on what you choose as a major asset in your national security. You choose NATO's collective security, the biggest partner. The United States is the main factor in NATO. It is also recognised by the European countries. Europe is an economic giant, but it is a war dwarf, and this is no secret to anyone. Europe itself relies on the United States and its military industrial complex and its military potential to protect its security. And this has been said repeatedly by many of the leaders of European countries. Who needed this contest? Bulgarian legislation allows direct negotiations! Why did we have to get into a situation of unpleasant situations with economic giants from other countries, with the countries themselves and so on, since Bulgaria's strategic choice is very clear: we want to be protected by NATO and, in particular, by the largest state, the most high-tech military industrial complex in NATO and in the world is the US military industrial complex? So, who do we get the equipment from? And why grocery bills? Yes, money is important. Yes, the budget is important. And that in the negotiations can be wonderfully protected. However, this decision should have been as you came to this conclusion in the end, purely political. It should have been taken at the beginning of the procedure and not at the end. And so we would have avoided all these absolutely unnecessary debates, in which debates many countries can find a reason to have diplomatic trouble. For this reason, we at the DPS once again say: Mrs. Nino, it is not the beginning of a new management coalition, the participation and voting of the DPS on this issue, but is a strategic choice of Bulgaria, which our party has supported since 1990. s long before your party came to the conclusion that we must choose NATO's collective security as a way to protect our national security and the sovereignty of the state. Since 1990. The movement for rights and freedoms is very consistent with this strategic choice. And there is nothing more natural than to address the United States as our main partner in protecting national security and given the region in which we live, and given the events of recent years, and given the structure, financial and military commitments of the NATO member states. So it is not any new governing coalition, it is the right political orientation regarding Bulgaria's strategic choice of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u131	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u132	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! The position of the Bulgarian Socialist Party has already been announced. What is our position based on? On the fact that the government and the ruling majority with all their actions so far delayed the modernization of the Bulgarian Army, created extraordinary parliamentary committees, postponed one contest with prepared results, made another, could not justify in any way the technical and military arguments that were brought forward and finally brought us a list of political requirements. Fellow Members of the majority, there is no reason for the government to ask parliament to seal management incompetence [[Shouting from GERB: "Eee! "]] the ruling majority, which could not hold a competition, could not hold direct negotiations and could not convince the Bulgarian public opinion about the need for this type of modernisation. What the government proposes today: Bulgarian citizens pay an unknown amount for an unknown product only because the government wants permission from the National Assembly for this. Shame on the political parties in the coalition, which is preparing to support this parliamentary decision! In this regard, we propose editing of the item. 4 in the proposed draft decision, which reads as follows: The project is subject to further ratification by the National Assembly and the rest of the text is dismissed. The arguments that can be brought in support of our position are the additional arguments. In conversation...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u133	You don't have time!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u134	...which were announced for political talks with a strategic partner, it was not taken into account and the talks did not attract the Supreme Commander of the Constitutional Republic. This isn't about the President and his private opinion. It's not a question of one or another kind of armament. The point is that the Supreme Commander within the meaning of the Bulgarian Constitution has the right and reason to be present and to express his opinion. [[Noise and lines.]] The government and the ruling majority removed the President from the talks, which is scandalous in the latest Bulgarian history, and today they want an indulgence from the National Assembly. You won't get it! Take the risk, perform the type of modernization you imagine, which, in our opinion, will not increase the national security and capacity of the Bulgarian army, and on top of that, will in no way give a new quality to our strategic partnership with the United States. This is a deal for domestic political consumption, for the self-reliance of the government, which is in a complex domestic political environment. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u135	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. - What's the line? [[Replications by MP Pavel Shopov.]] I understand you have an editorial, and I'm going to put it to the vote in a moment. There are no lines. Any other speeches? [[Noise and lines.]] I don't think you have time, though. [[Noise and lines.]] Procedure can, of course. You're welcome for a procedure, only in the manner of conduct, because the procedure enters the group's time, so something to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u136	Yes, to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u137	A compliment, perhaps!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u138	Yes, he's also with you, Madam President. When you put to the vote the proposal to bear in mind that Mr. Volen Siderov submitted in writing during the debate, in due form, according to our Rules, several proposals. And my suggestion to you is to give punctually, to read each of them first, since Mr. Siderov did not read them, understandably why...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u139	Yeah, yeah, sure, I'll read them.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u140	That's right. And by paragraphs, as they are presented, each one of them. As far as BSP's proposal is concerned, there is only one proposal, there is no case of my procedural proposal. Therefore, I ask you, because I express an extremely important political will, to be clear and in this broader form, in which we can adopt our decision, to subject it and to see who in the Chamber is in what position it is to vote and Mr. Volen Siderov's proposals one by one, not anbloc, in general, as they are presented to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u141	Of course, Mr. Shopov, I'll read it clearly and clearly in a moment. Do we have any other comments? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Gentlemen Generals, do you have anything to say? General Iliev and General Stoykov? Here you go. [[Heckling]] Mr. Minister, you're probably going to take an attitude, too?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u142	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u143	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u144	Honourable President, Members of the House, Mr. Minister! As a representative of the military leadership, I would like to share this with you: for us, the modernisation process has always been of particular importance. Either way, he locked himself in these three initial major projects and we are looking at the projects, especially the one standing before you for discussion, as a playful moment, if I may say so, in the process of modernization of the Bulgarian Army. An extremely important process which, in our opinion, does not take a day's delay. We hope that this process in today will be start-up and we will start the actual modernisation in the interests of national security, so that we can fulfil our constitutional obligations in the best possible way possible and be at the height of our partners and our neighbours, armed in the best possible way. Our analysis shows that this process for us is directly related to the Bulgarian army's neocomplect, which you have been informed about. Modernization means modernity, so the height of modern challenges and modern times. I am convinced that you, members of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, will make the best decision related to national security and the modernization of the army, which, you all agreed, was late. Thank you. If you have any questions, I'm ready to answer. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u145	Thank you, General Iliev, Deputy Chief of Defense. Here you are, General Stoykov, Commander of the Air Force.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u146	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Secretary of Defense! As Air Force Commander, I also confirm the need for modernization by acquiring a new fighter plane for the Bulgarian Air Force so that we can carry out our tasks and duties to ensure the national air sovereignty of the Republic of Bulgaria. In addition, I would like to state as commander and chairman of the Joint Working Group that we have worked objectively, impartially and have tried to analyse precisely the data presented so that the government can take an informed decision, for which I thank you for continuing the process and that there is no such way that, if the procedure is stopped, the modernisation will be delayed. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u147	Thank you, dear General Stoykov. The word is Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u148	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ninova, happy birthday to wish you first! Today we will have the pleasure, at the top of your birthday, to vote on a correct solution related to the modernization of the Bulgarian army. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] I congratulate you on your birthday and wish you health and success! Dear colleagues, once again we have witnessed a debate in which political passions or political accounts prevailed over Bulgaria's national interests and security. My colleague Volen Siderov told you that we are not actually deciding here to vote on the National Assembly and to give us the opportunity to make a deal tomorrow, but to start negotiations. I don't know why the speakers on the left-hand side missed that. They've told honest lies and insulting qualifications.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u149	Untruths rather.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u150	Untruths, well, I apologize for untruths. To put it mildly, untruths. I don't know what the point is. As has been mentioned, it is also described in the Report, since 2004 there have been attempts to modernize the Bulgarian Air Force and something is happening at the end and it is not happening. Until when? If we, as Bulgarian politicians, take into account the situation around Bulgaria, it is quite different than in 2004, which I am talking about in the Black Sea, the Middle East, the events in a neighbouring country of Turkey, internal conflicts and so on; the Balkan region is talking about interethnic tensions in a number of our neighbours in the Balkans. The question arises: How long will Bulgaria wait with the modernization of its air force, are we talking about them in this case? But why was one, why was the other? There is no connection between whether the plane is, as the movies used to say, Swedish or Soviet, the important thing to be the best for the Bulgarian army. And that's what I'm saying, as Minister of Defense and as a man of clear patriotic conviction. It is important to me, as a Bulgarian patriot, that the Bulgarian army should be armed with the most powerful, most quality, best weapon in order to carry out its duties in the best way. If you would even let me mention another argument. Look at the armaments of our neighbours in the Balkans and imagine if we buy less armaments! You may not have heard the word "geopolitics" and balance of forces, but this is extremely important. In order for there to be a balance of forces in the region, Bulgaria must buy the most powerful and best weapon. If we purchase the F-16 Block 70, we will have the advantage that we will have the most modern plane of all Balkan countries. At the moment, the most modern. [[Heckling]] F-35 hasn't delivered it anywhere yet.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u151	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u152	They haven't delivered it anywhere yet, F-35! That's why I said at the moment. From now on, to claim that such an aircraft is not, as if to claim, that the brand "Mercedes" or "BMWs" will not produce or have not produced the next model. Well, just because he's not at the mass market at the store doesn't mean he's gone! There's an F... [[a line from the MP Rumen Gechev.]] Let's not argue, Mr. Gechev, please! I said it's not right to tell the truth. F-16 is a modification... Fifth generation is this plane. A country like Greece, if there was no such plane, would you wish to modernise 80 of its Block 50 to Block 70 aircraft if there was no one? Romania would you be interested immediately after our decision by the Council of Ministers to begin negotiations on a similar Block? I won't. Only some of our politicians in parliament believe there is no such thing. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let me get back to the point. And basically, the question is this: the government... Here I would like to thank the two working groups, General Zapreyanov, Deputy Minister of Defence, General Tsanko Stoykov, the two working groups who did their job. They put a lot of effort into a situation where they were constantly under the impression that someone was putting pressure on them. No one has put pressure on either of the two groups. It's not true that the president was also isolated. Personally, I've had at least seven or eight conversations about how things are going, conversations of his own accord. The last one was on the 28th when we were producing the last three generals. No one has isolated anyone. What the president wanted to get from the Department of Defense for the course of the procedure, he got, and he was the only one who was interested. Therefore, we are in the following situation, as described in the report. Given that we have submitted offers to France, Germany, Portugal, Israel, if I miss something, the United States, we have proposals from only three countries. And here I stress, it was correct, Mr. Gajev very accurately and detailedly described the procedure, we are actually going to the procedure................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The other countries either did not reply or stated that they had no interest and did not submit any offers. The first phase of the work passed by the fact that it was found that one of the proposals of the United States of America, F-18 Super Hornet, the price was extremely high and unbearable for the budget of the Republic, but also the documentation that was sent for this plane, did not meet the requirements to be determined as an offer and were disqualified after the first phase. We'll move on from here. The second part of the work was to assess the submitted offers, which is why it was necessary for the working group to send 21-day letters to the US, Sweden and Italy to answer additional questions, from the answers to which the parameters could be clarified. Part of the questions two of the parties do not answer because they cannot answer, I am referring to Sweden and Italy, due to the fact that the armaments and parts of the equipment of their aircraft do not deliver it, but is subject to an additional contract with a third party, either the United States, or the United States, and any other European country that manufactures the armaments. The United States also does not answer some of the questions with the argument that their legislation does not allow such questions to be commented before the start of real negotiations. But in both offers for new planes, because the desire of the whole society and the army is to have a new plane, the resources of the planes are different. In the case of F-16, 12 000 hours of resource, in the case I'm saying about because it's between 2,700 and 3,200 hours. That's why I'm saying about 3,000 hours. The life of airplanes, put simply:.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We're heading for the main two new planes. Since the answers or the non-answers to these questions make it clear that the price is above the price set by the National Assembly a billion and a half plus VAT is exceeded by both sides, then the resonant reasoning follows: what is next here? There are two options. One of my colleagues, Valeri Simeonov, proposed a new competition, and I strongly oppose such a decision and a proposal because that means condemning the Air Force in the coming years again to no solution. We have this match with the new competition and with the beginning of it, we have been playing it for 14 years and the result is a big pretzel zero, and it is not a solution. The other solution that we have proposed is the election of one of the partners and the start of negotiations with him. Why this partner? Many things have been said here about the strategic choice, who was the first Nazi, who was the second, who joined later. It doesn't matter. It is important who offers better weapons and does not make you dependent on a third party under contracts. This is the solution, and the decision for F-16 is such that the full set of weapons and equipment are one country, one contract and not dependent. God forbid, during a situation, not to call her by another word, being dependent on a third party to deliver or repair the planes, and she can say she's neutral and she doesn't want to participate, and then you're tied up. What's the offer? The proposal is as follows: the government's mandate to hold the negotiations. In these negotiations, let us finalise the conditions regarding these three parameters that have been commented. Another speculation today, you can ask us for two and a half billion, six billion, 12 billion. No, we can't! The deviation can only be up to the level of already received proposals, that is, we have a ceiling of a proposal, this is a ceiling for us. We have the assurance that in the course of the negotiations this ceiling will be lowered as a price, the deviation is within the limits of the proposals received and not above them. That was very clear in several defence committees, but I don't know why you chose, just like that, to shut it down, maybe create an effect that would be spent not a billion and a half, not two, but five billion. That's what I'm talking about. There is absolutely no violation of any law at the moment. The highest authority in the Republic of Bulgaria, according to the Constitution of the National Assembly. The National Assembly has voted on a framework, a project for investment expenditure. In this situation, there is a deviation, put harshly, or exceeded by the countries from which we can purchase. The logical thing is, I repeat, two options: we start from the beginning and we get back to nowhere, as usual, or we continue the conversation in the normal way. If the terms that are agreed are not favourable to the state of Bulgaria, we already have the basis, or rather the National Assembly, to say that we terminate or pass with the next of the participants. This is the will of the National Assembly. Everything else is empty talk, because in this case, there is a very ugly attempt to suggest to society that it will be wronged, so whether it be because of pensions or social policy. The cost of the Investment Expenditure Project for an aircraft is within the framework of the plan for 2% of gross domestic product. They are not additional to the budget for pensions, education, health care or anything. Let it be heard clearly by all Bulgarian citizens. "This is a lie! I apologize, distortion of the truth. I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u153	Yeah, I agree.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u154	Within this percentage,.2% of the gross domestic product voted as a national plan. Nothing on the side. Dear MPs, the decision is in the hands of the Bulgarian National Assembly. Personally, I will thank everyone on behalf of the Ministry of Defence, but especially the Bulgarian servicemen. We pass by and we go...... who made it by mandate, two, three and we leave, who from parliament, and more often we leave the executive authority, but the people in uniform, these men and women in uniform, will stay to serve Bulgaria and after us. Therefore, for me every Bulgarian MP who today supported the government's proposal will vote for the security of Bulgaria and for the construction of modern and combatable Bulgarian aviation. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u155	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Colleagues, we're going to vote. First, I will read the editorial amendment, which made the people representative Volen Siderov. I'll read slower so you can follow the text. Proposal for editorial changes to: A decision to examine the proposals and the reasons for them set out in the Council of Ministers' report on the results of the evaluation of the proposals submitted according to the Indicative Plan (Travel map) of Annex 3 to the updated project for investment expenditure. 51 of 2018), and to assign the Prime Minister to establish an organisation and negotiating team to prepare a draft international treaty and negotiate with the Government of the United States of America to acquire a new type of combat plane: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 of the Draft First of all, the words "the Minister of Economy" are deleted. Secondly, after the words "the Minister of Finance', the point is replaced by a comma and added by one Member of the National Assembly designated by each Parliamentary Group. II. In the draft decision to create a new item. 4. "4." Instructs the negotiating team during the negotiations on the International Treaty under point (b) of paragraph 1. 1, including in connection with the defence minister's report to the Council of Ministers and declared by the US country ready to reduce the offer price, the issue of reducing to zero the cost of acquiring the fighter planes as compensation for the provision of the United States Armed Forces in the last 12 years, under the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America for cooperation in the field of defence of 28 April 2006, the use of Bulgarian military facilities and facilities free of charge. III. In the draft decision to create a new item. 5. It's five o'clock. In connection with a long-standing cooperation in the field of defence between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United States of America, the negotiating team is entrusted to the negotiating team during the negotiations on the International Treaty under this item. 1 to ask the question and to be thoroughly explored all possibilities for the Republic of Bulgaria to receive from the Government of the United States battle planes F-16V Block 70. IV. Point 4 of the Draft Decision to be changed and to become point 4 6................................................ Please vote on the editorial amendments he has made and proposed Mr. Volen Siderov. They voted 211 MPs: 15 against 40 abstention 156. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Zablyanov has just withdrawn his editorial proposal. I will only read the title of the draft decision without reading the other points, as General Popov read them. sekt of a decision to examine the proposals and the reasons for them mentioned in the report of the Council of Ministers on the results of the evaluation of the proposals submitted according to the Model Plan (Travel map)............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 51 of 2018), and to assign the Prime Minister to set up an organization and negotiating team to prepare a draft international treaty and negotiate with the United States Government to acquire a new type of fighter aircraft. Vote 215 MPs: 131 against 84 abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB.]] It's a re-vote. Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u156	Thank you, Madam President. I'm asking for a re-voting procedure. This is how confusions happen when proposals are submitted at the last minute. Thank you. [[Noise and lines. Announcements by GERB: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u157	Please, re-vote procedure for Mr. Philip Popov's proposal. Vote 214 MPs: 130 against 84 abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB.]] Negative vote by Mr. Ermenkov, then by Mr. Hristov. [[Deputy Prime Minister Krasimir Karakachanov is leaving the Chamber. Loud noise.]] Goodbye, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Have a good job, too!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u158	Madam President, it's a pity the Minister is leaving. I voted negatively precisely because the Bulgarian Socialist Party (Bulgarian Socialist Party) and the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party (BSP)... [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u159	Please, colleagues, take your seats.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u160	Can I start again in a minute?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u161	Yeah, sure. Wait, Mr. Ermenkov, you will continue with the negative vote. Colleagues, please take your seats. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov, from the beginning.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u162	Madam President, it is a pity that the Minister has left because my negative vote was rather in connection with his speech. I voted negatively precisely because I am for the modernisation of the Bulgarian Army, for the modernisation of the armed forces and for the modernisation of the Air Force. I voted against it because, with paragraph four of this decision, Parliament signed a carte blanche to the government, with which, firstly, it legitimized its inability to hold a contest for the purchase of fighting equipment. Secondly, he put the state before three huge risks the risk of international scandal, the risk of collapse of the capabilities of the Air Force in the foreseeable future to be modernised and the risk that the Bulgarian people will pay a price that is impossible for him. When we adopted the Investment Expenditure Project a year ago, it was precisely formulated both in time and in financial and economic terms. These are the only possible conditions for Bulgaria, for the Bulgarian people and which are acceptable to it. What we have adopted today contains the risk that we will not be able to collect the financial resources and, once again, because of the government's fault, because of its inability to conduct international talks....not only in terms of armaments, we have other cases to face the risk of paying billions, because we have not managed as people, because the Bulgarian government puts Bulgaria in a bad light in front of its allies and that it is capable of bringing us even with our best friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u163	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Hristov, come in for a second negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u164	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take advantage of my right to express my negative vote because today, with this vote, we have taken another step towards the only election promise that will be fulfilled 100%. We're in a hell of a hurry to spend a lot of money on military exhibits, and our pensioners, doctors, teachers and policemen keep waiting. In your opinion, they can wait because you promised to raise their salaries, but you didn't say when. They will wait perhaps until the end of the term. However, we, ladies and gentlemen, are spending money as if we were spending it as if there would be no tomorrow, and I fear that not until the end of this term, but until the end of five mandates after that there will be no money for those people who are the foundations of our country. Although the Minister is not in the Chamber, I will address him: Dear Minister, you already have the green light to negotiate. Well, let's see you! Because you're a politician, and if you fail, it probably won't matter much to you, but the people behind you are generals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u165	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Third negative vote please, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u166	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, the Bulgarian Socialist Party (Bulgarian Socialist Party) was consistent and not coincidentally last year supported the modernization of the Bulgarian Army, but under two conditions. Firstly, to comply with the financial and economic conditions in Bulgaria and the country's budget and, secondly, it is important for us that industrial cooperation is set, albeit not as a basic, mandatory requirement. The first condition clearly does not meet the decisions that have been made now, and this could cost the economic development of Bulgaria and the destruction of the Bulgarian state. Secondly, it is important for us to reinvest in the Bulgarian economy. Security and economic development go hand in hand. You know that the economic base is important for the development of the Defence Sector and the Security Sector. Thirdly, why should we violate parliamentary and legal order? Two investment expenditure projects were adopted in two years. What does it turn out to be? The governors are not aware of the conditions offered by the individual countries and the proposals they make, and last year led the National Assembly to vote on a decision that now requires that it be changed and out of the parameters adopted here by us! Fourth, with the change of parameters in the Investment Expenditure Project, non-compliance with the parameters and possibilities of the Bulgarian budget, what are we doing, what are we signaling the international community? Where goes the authority of the Bulgarian state?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u167	Get it over with, Mr. Tsonkov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u168	What projects for other types of armed forces? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u169	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. Procedure in the manner of conduct................................................................................................ What did I do wrong again, Mr. Velkov? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u170	Thank you. I, Madam President, would sincerely like to congratulate you on providing conditions for a meaningful debate and by means of you to convey to those who have made this decision, that they do not forget the cowgirl in the bottom corner of the label and that she will milk you very hard! Whoa! [[Laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u171	That was an interesting remark, but thanks for the commendation, though. Mr. Karadayi, please come in for a statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u172	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have adopted a proper geostrategic solution, but we also have internal problems that are equally important to national security. What happened in the village of Vojvodinovo, Plovdiv, is terrible. It's terrible what happened to the students on the road Sliven Gurkovo. It is also terrible what happened in Paul Banya and in Blagoevgrad. We sincerely sympathize with the injured commando, the students, the elderly man from Pavel Banya and the boy from Blagoevgrad, to their loved ones. We wish them a speedy recovery. The more horrible thing about this case is that these things happen because of the government. What's worse is that the government doesn't realize what's coming next, they don't read the signals properly and they stay deaf to the messages. In fact, these and similar cases are a disturbing signal of the severe division in society, of the warring hatred and the accumulated anger, of aggression and of insanity. What happened had to make the government realize the scale of division and the consequences of hate policy, which has been officially in power in recent years. I had to! But it didn't work! On the contrary, we have witnessed gross manipulation and an attempt at political use for short-term dividends. It's the same pattern. On the eve of the elections, the domestic, hooligan and criminal cases to ethnify themselves and become a group punishment, in gross violation of the principle of personal responsibility for any violation or crime. Or more cynically, while a deputy prime minister creates ethnic tensions, GERB in Plovdiv opens the cultural capital of diversity under the motto "Together." With regard to the attempts to contact such cases with the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, there is an eloquent response based on election results from the 2017 session protocols. Of the total votes voted 965 voters in the village of Vojvodinovo in the two sections of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, there are six votes. We are witnessing real actions of ethnic opposition with unpredictable consequences. Instead of unity in the name of the common future, we are witnessing an unprecedented division, which was not even at the dawn of democracy. The policy of the government is the main reason for division and warring hatred. Instead of responding to unresolved problems, the government increases the dividing lines. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms is strongly condemning any violation of the individual and property of the citizens. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms is strongly condemning any form of hatred and division and denies the non-constant policies of the government, which deepen the existing problems in society rather than solving them. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we strongly insist that, within an hour, all authorities and institutions fulfill their obligations, those who are guilty should be punished and that complex effective measures should be put in place to resolve problems with vision and responsibility to the future. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms is urging the Prime Minister to distinguish himself from the speeches of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence and to take the necessary political action. Otherwise, the responsibility lies with the entire government. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms is demanding the prosecution to self-serving for all acts of hatred on ethnic and religious grounds and whether the laws of the destruction of people's homes have been complied with. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we also insist that the President of the National Assembly take the attitude as well as the National Assembly as a whole. The President should also take the attitude as the unification of the Constitutional Nation. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Peace and democracy are in danger! We call for responsibility with the thought of the future of our motherland, with the thought of the future of our children! Hate must stop! The separation must stop! It is time to reaffirm our allegiance to European values. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u173	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Colleagues, we move on to the next item on the agenda: A NEW DISCLOSURE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE PUNISHING CODEX, ACCEPTED BY THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 13 DECEMBER 2018, RETURNED FOR A NEW DISCLOSURE BY SAYN No 309 OF 19 DECEMBER 2018 TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF CHILD. 101 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. I give the floor to Mrs. Atanasova to read the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Before that, the procedure. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u174	Thank you, Madam President. Before that, I take the floor and make proposals for two procedures. The first procedure is to extend the plenary session until a decision is taken on Decree No 309 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria for return and a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code. And admission procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u175	The first for admission, the second for extension of the meeting, so we will do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u176	For the admission of Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov to Deputy Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u177	Thank you. First, I ask that we vote on the tolerance procedure. Vote 88 MPs: 83 against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. And now for the second procedure Mrs. Atanasova proposed.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u178	Back-up proposal under the second procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u179	Mr. Popov Mrs. Atanasova suggested extending the meeting to the vote, to listen to your procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u180	Thank you, Madam President. We have a counterproposal "Let's start with the President's Decree, read the Commission's report, even if the debates to continue on tomorrow are started, this is an important point. We've been discussing planes all day in the National Assembly. Let us be able to discuss it tomorrow, too, is an important point concerning criminal law in Bulgaria, the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is normal tomorrow, when all the MPs are in the Chamber, I see that on the right side they are quite absent, let us continue with this point tomorrow. There's no need for urgency today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u181	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I will put to the vote, first of all, Mrs. Atanasova's proposal, and if it is adopted, we will continue if I do not, and I will put your proposal to the vote. Please vote on Mrs. Atanasova's proposal to extend working time to the president's veto vote. They voted 115 MPs: for 83, against 30, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Atanasova, come and introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u182	♪ I can't believe on Decree No 309 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 19 December 2018, on the return for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code adopted by the National Assembly on 13 December 2018 and the reasons for the decree At its meeting held on 15 January 2019 the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed Decree No 309 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. The meeting was attended by Mr. Plamen Uzunov, Secretary for Legal Affairs and Anti-Corruption; by the Ministry of Justice: Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov, Deputy Minister, Mr. Alexander Stefanov, State Expert at the Department of Law and Ms. Katya Panova, State Expert at the Directorate of International Legal Cooperation and European Affairs. Prof. Drumeva reported to the members of the Commission the President of the Republic of Bulgaria and the reasons for it. On the basis of art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The President returns the provisions of § 7, item 7 to the National Assembly for a new discussion. Point 5 (c) (i) (i) and (ii) (ii) (ii) of Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 19 of the Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, adopted on 13 December 2018. The President stated in his reasoning that minimum rules on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings, the right to notify a third party in detention, as well as the right to contact third parties and consular authorities during the detention period have been laid down in order to increase the confidence in criminal justice, but does not share the legislator's approach to the restrictions introduced on the right to notify a third party in detention. The Decree states that the new regulation allows the notification of detention to be postponed for up to 48 hours where there is an urgent need to prevent serious adverse consequences to the life, freedom or physical integrity of a person, or where action by investigative bodies whose obstruction would seriously impede criminal proceedings is necessary. In the case of the same hypotheses and in order to protect the best interest of a detained minor, notification of the new arrangement may be postponed for up to 24 hours. Ms. Drumeva noted the President's support for all efforts and measures in the fight against terrorism, organised crime and other forms of complicated criminal activity, which she considers appropriate and justified, expressing disagreement with the approach of the legislator, which does not outline the circle of persons and specific crimes for which notification may be postponed. Next, the President states in the Decree that Directive 2013/48/EU provides for the possibility of introducing a temporary derogation from rights, while at the same time requiring States to determine in their national law the grounds and criteria for each temporary derogation in a limited number of cases (recital 38 to Directive 2013/48/EU). According to him, though, although the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code introduces this directive in the Bulgarian legislation, the bill does not contain those guarantees. In the case of the detained adults, the concept used by the person concerned may not be notified within 48 hours of the family of the detainees (§ 7, p. Article 5 (b) (i) and (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 63, para. 9 of the PPC). Without setting out the circle of crimes to which this restriction may apply, according to the Head of State it becomes applicable in an unmitigated number of cases. In addition, according to him, there is no obligation for the competent authorities, when delaying the notification to a specific person, to first assess whether another third party designated by the suspect or accused person could be informed of its detention (recital 35 to Directive 2013/48/EU). In this way, the arrangements adopted do not ensure that there will be no cases where none of the relatives are informed of the detention. The President has objected to the introduction of such a restriction on minors who are detained, allowing them not to be informed within 24 hours of their detention of their parents or guardians and the director of the educational establishment where they are trained (§ 7, p. Article 19 concerning Art. 386, para. 5 of the PPC), by not agreeing to such a restriction in the light of the Constitution, which includes parents to take care of their children until their age and obliges the State to assist them. In conclusion, Ms. Drumeva pointed out the President's disagreement regarding the hypotheses in the adopted law, which are an exception to the mandatory notification rule, which he said is unclear, the concepts are general and impractical and give unlimited freedom to the authorities of pre-trial proceedings. The President claims that they could be widely interpreted after the legislator does not accurately define individuals and does not specify crimes (e.g. terrorism, organised crime and other forms of complicated criminal activity). Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov noted that the Ministry of Justice considers that full compliance has been achieved in the process of introducing Directive 2013/48/EU into the Bulgarian legislation by stating detailed arguments that the requirements for the temporary derogation to be proportionate, strictly limited in time are met, not to be based exclusively on the type or severity of the alleged crime and not to affect the fairness of the proceedings as a whole. The discussion was attended by the MPs Valeri Zablyanov, Danail Kirilov, Dimitar Lazarov, Philip Popov, Yavor Bojankov, Dimitar Stoyanov, and Christian Mitev. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 votes for the Criminal Code adopted by the National Assembly on 13 December 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u183	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. My fellow Members, I am opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Anyone? You have the floor, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Not all of you, including, and especially the ruling majority, are entitled to a correctional exam. This exam is state and law. The arguments I will put forward in support of the veto of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, we have repeatedly expressed by the parliamentary group of BSP. However, these arguments are supported not only by us but also by the scientific and legal community. Reserves on the texts that you are proposing to us on amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, said even the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria to the attention of parents or guardians of a minor in custody. The derogation or the revocation of the right to notify relatives of detention for a period of 48 hours and, in the case of a minor for 24 hours, is contrary to a number of international acts protecting the rights and freedoms of citizens. This text also contradicts the directive itself, from which it is drawn, the directive in which the following is clearly and categorically written: That is to say, this is not the only reason for the claim or the severity of the crime, but to have cumulation of grounds, but of course one of them being the type or severity of the alleged crime. However, how the Bulgarian official understood this directive is shown by the insane text that we are looking at today for the third time. The directive is simply rewritten without taking into account its meaning without introducing the additional criterion...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Without such a criterion, you go below the minimum requirements of the directive itself and open the door for arbitrary reasons. The investigating authority shall, at its discretion, be able to detain and not notify the relatives of the detentionee. This exceptional measure, notice, contrary to all domestic and international acts of protection of children's rights, will be possible to manifest itself, i.e. it will also be able to be retained without notification of a minor, i.e. a child. A child who has his legal representatives, trustees and parents, a child who cannot yet form his own volition due to his little life experience, a child who has no right to vote cannot carry out property transactions alone, enter into marriage, the same child will have to choose from a list of lawyers Ivan, Dragan, Petkan a person who will protect his legitimate rights and interests and the same child to appeal prosecutorial orders. This is anything else, but not guaranteeing protection and the possibility of organising legal protection of the detainee at all, let alone when it comes to a child. With these texts, you are returning the development of the rule of law to the times when people were picked up from their streets and their homes by the police, and for their loved ones, they were gone nowhere. How do you explain to a mother when her 15-year-old child doesn't come home from school and he's gone 24 hours, and when that same mother is looking for him at the police and from there they modestly raise their shoulders and say, "We don't know where she is. " I even told the Legal Committee yesterday that this could happen for a fake chocolate theft. Why have not the nature and severity of the crimes committed been described? Everything is left to the subjective will of the investigating authorities, and they are, of course, the easiest thing not to notify. That's why you're risking this exception to become a rule. And the practice proved it. We cannot support such a text in the Code of Criminal Procedure, such an experiment, because the Code of Criminal Procedure of Bulgaria is sufficiently well justified and written, the directive itself does not require this of us. On the contrary, it introduces minimum standards and one of them is to describe the type and severity of the alleged crime. You can't keep him for stealing chocolate for 24 hours! Imagine in Bulgaria how many convicts or how many indictees there are for terrorism, say? Why, then, is this harsh measure being introduced? Once again, it is contrary to the directive. From now on, I suppose what cases will be filed against Bulgaria in respect of the failure to comply with the directive itself. You don't introduce these minimum requirements, you remove them. Therefore, we cannot support the law returned by the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. We will support the veto because it is right. Here you will not rub your nose in, figuratively speaking, the president, overcoming the veto. You, an honourable majority, and those who will support the Law, will rub the noses of the Code of Criminal Procedure, of those who deal with it, of the Bulgarian citizens, of the Bulgarian parents, of the Bulgarian mothers, of the Bulgarian fathers, of those people who will feel the repressive apparatus of the state on themselves with impunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u185	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u186	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor for a reply to express my clear disagreement with the statements of my colleague Popov, who presented to your attention. There won't be enough time for a line to disprove all these claims. I will ask for a statement at the right time, but I want this debate to be clear as of now. Coworker Popov claims that any investigator can hold off and not notify. I challenge that statement from my colleague. Yesterday in the debates of the Legal Committee, I had the opportunity to explain that we have set this norm, which corresponds to 100% of the speeches in the directive. We've put it in art. 63, that is, we have chosen its systematic place to refer not to any actual detention, but to the cases where the court has already applied for a detention measure, that is, we have double the court's control of the possible non-disclosure of a specific person. Firstly, we have a measure by the court, and then we have the possibility that the person who has been detained will immediately request judicial protection and a review of the measure. With regard to the claim of missing children, this is also an attempt to instill certain messages and I ask my colleague Popov to analyse specifically the text that is about not informing when there is an order for a minor. It begins in the protection of the interests of the child and let not the not-inquiry be addressed to parents. The statement that we use, which colleague Popov knows, is not parents or lawyers, but a specific person.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u187	Thank you. Any other lines? You have the floor for a line, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Popov, I will also disagree with what you said in your speech, and at the very least I will recall that there exists art. 91 in the Code of Criminal Procedure, according to which the defender of the accused or of the detainee may be his parent or guardian, so in this regard, what you fear is that the person will not be contacted by anyone in the family or family circle, can in practice be easily overcome. Next, I would point out to you the purely life situation: you, since you are not deprived of your right to an attorney and will contact your lawyer, do you think that this lawyer will not notify your relatives or that you will not ask him to do so, and whether he will not. I'm telling you this as a hypothesis to think about whether this could happen in reality. Finally, but not least, I believe that there is no way to support this veto, since we are expressing such concerns, such fracking frescoes as to how people will almost disappear from the streets, the protection mechanism, which is described in the newly created paragraphs 10 and 11 of Art. 63, in practice, has also been returned by the President for a new discussion, without any motives, without it being clear why this mechanism is being returned. In this case, the only remedy given to the person, according to the President, should not exist and should not exist, although he still believes there is almost a presumption that the prosecutor in this case will abuse his right each time. I have more confidence in the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u189	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Third line? I can't see. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think I've been specific and quite clear, but I'm going to read you the texts we're talking about again. In para. 38 of the directive is written as follows: Any such temporary derogations should be proportionate, strictly limited in time, should not be based exclusively on the type or severity of the alleged crime and should not affect the fairness of the proceedings as a whole. What did you write down? The other reasons that are wonderful: There is an urgent need to prevent serious adverse consequences for life, freedom or physical needs of a person and so on. The delay of that notification shall be applied in the light of the particular circumstances of each particular case and shall not exceed what is necessary and shall not be based solely on the type or severity of the crime committed. My colleague Kirilov is right, the Copi-Pass of the Directive, directly, you have literally copied it, but the directive says otherwise: to have the type and severity of the crime. You didn't write that down at all. [[GERB lines.]] It does not depend exclusively, i.e. not only on the type and severity of the crime, but it is an objective criterion, but you have copied it literally, not a meaning. I am trying to tell you that the directive has a completely different meaning, and you have put a whole other meaning in the draft penal procedural code. Therefore, you fall below these minimum requirements of the directive itself. From now on, for Bulgaria and for our justice system there will be a number of cases because these minimum requirements of the directive are not met.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u191	Any other speeches? I can't see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u192	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I respect the opinion of the importers, but I cannot agree with the reasons put forward in relation to the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code. The presented bill does not fill in gaps in the Criminal Code as is supposedly the purpose of the importers, but rather contradicts the PPC and the Ministry of Interior Act, proclaiming fundamental principles for the Bulgarian constitutional model, namely the principle of the rule of law. However, it is noted that the proposed changes violate legal equality, predictability and stability of the legal order. Yes, we need efficiency in procedural actions in the Code of Criminal Procedure, but it should be achieved by means that do not restrict the rights of other members of society. It is to be noted that the proposed changes do not comply with the current legislation, but even contradict, as there is also the lack of a state body or institution, and its opinion, which includes the collection and analysis of information on police violence, which can provide an extremely important factology. The President's veto is partly on restrictions contained in § 7, point. Point 5 (c) (i) (i) and (ii) (ii) (ii) of Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 19 of the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, which creates respectively para. 9 in art. Reg. 63, para. 5 in art. 386 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The new regulation allows the notification of detention to be postponed for a period of up to 48 hours where there is an urgent need to prevent serious adverse consequences to the life, freedom or factual integrity of a person or where it is necessary to take action by investigative authorities whose obstruction would seriously impede criminal proceedings. Here we are already entering into the essential contradictions, namely art. 17 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which states that for detention, the relevant authority is obliged to immediately notify a person designated by the detentionee, a provision which constitutes a certain classic in criminal law. It is also an alphabetically known and long-established rule that it is unacceptable under any circumstances to use detention as a means of easier and more convenient collection of evidence against the person suspected of being a possible perpetrator. The proposals that are trying to be codified at the moment are rather telling me that detentions will be carried out on the basis of evidence that is not fit to stand trial. On the other hand, I would like to return to the deadline. In the case of the derogation of rights, the time limit should also be set and, in this case, within 48 hours. However, when setting that deadline, it is necessary to respect the principle of proportionality between State intervention to protect the interests of justice and the rights of the detained person. In that sense, it should be assessed whether the envisaged 48-hour period is proportionate or excessive for the purpose protected by the State. It should be considered whether a certain category of persons is detained and should not, by definition, be excluded from the temporary derogation and, if such an approach is not taken and not excluded, the prerequisites for which the application of the derogation may be laid down strictly should be laid down. And since we've been quoting and talking about the president all this time, I would like to quote another institution, namely the Prosecution. The chief prosecutor Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov expressed his opinion that for precision it is necessary for the legislator to explicitly identify the types of crimes in respect of which the accused can tolerate this 48-hour limitation for subjective judgment in imposing it and unjustified limitation of the rights of the citizens. I mean, the D.A.'s position hasn't been since December when Mr. Tsatsarov said it. On the contrary, it dates back to 2016, when the Deputy Prosecutor General is Penka Bogdanova and also gives an opinion on this directive. Once again, I quote: The proposed revision of the norm does not take into account the condition of the directive that the temporary limitation of the right to apply in exceptional cases. There was no expression and the requirement that the competent authorities necessarily consider the possibility that another person designated by the detained prosecutor should be notified without delay of the detention. On the other hand, the detention and non-disclosure itself is re-entering a Coliseum with the current legislation. I'm setting an example again. If the prisoner engages his defender, there is no obligation of the defender, his lawyer, not to notify any person. This thing only applies to police authorities, and, on the other hand, it also makes no sense to be introduced as a provision. The usual practice is as follows: first, the detained person is held for 24 hours, the so-called police detention, after which is passed about 72 hours............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is also not indicated anywhere in the police detention within 24 hours that no person may be informed, on the contrary, during that time, that the persons concerned may be informed or that we are entering an § 22, of which it does not become clear to people what they should do. All this time, it is said that this will be implemented and will only work in exceptional cases: when we are fighting organised crime and fighting terrorism. I agree, but as we see so far, both President Rumen Radev and the Attorney General say that this thing should be refined and explicitly mentioned. Why should it be explicitly mentioned? I'm going to allow myself an aphorism: As many lawyers there are in one room, there are so many opinions on the issue. Currently, investigators, investigators and prosecutors, all who have investigative functions, are not watching us or following our work to know that this should only be applied to the fight against terrorism and organised crime. Finally, I would like to give some statistics. The data was given by the Ministry of Interior. For the period from 2000 to 2015, 1146 complaints were filed for injuries caused by employees, illegal detention and forced interrogation. After that, only 11% of them had the appropriate administrative punishment. Note, at the same time, the complaints that have reached the court note a much higher success rate of 61%, i.e. with the complaints that have reached the court and are respected, it is now 697. The most common are the complaints for illegal detention. 41%, or 469 pieces. Until police, investigation and prosecution are reformed, I do not see the point in increasing the powers and giving up the basic rights that have already been acquired. That's why I'm asking you to reconsider and support the president's veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u193	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. Are there any lines? You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u194	Mr. President, honourable Members, unfortunately, I still have to replicate my opposition colleague. I'd like to correct the following statements. With regard to the opinion of the Deputy Prosecutor-General Mrs. Penka Bogdanova, this is an opinion provided before the first reading of the bill. We argue that this opinion is in line with the second reading, including the working group in the meetings at second reading, were attended by representatives of both the Prosecutor General and the Supreme Court of Cassation. In terms of the calculation made by the colleague 24 hours plus 72 hours. Only this arithmetic shows how measured, moderate and minimal is the measure the legislator has proposed in this case. However settled in time, it covers only half the time, these 24 hours plus 72 hours cover at most half of that time. In addition, I support the reasoning of my colleague Baychev that we did not strive, but on the contrary, we defended the right to legal protection. Lawyers are categorically excluded from the non-information category. Moreover: we have given this secrecy the opportunity to be subsequent after the measure has been imposed and only to a specific person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u195	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Another line? I can't see. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u196	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Kirilov, that's true, you're right. There were slight retreats from what you had stated as your original wish. If the Deputy Prosecutor's line had been preceded, the Attorney General's line would have followed. It was dated 19 or 20 December 2018, when he also made a remark and said that the relevant qualifications in the relevant texts were not codified, were not described and refined as types of crimes. On the other hand, I would like to read you something else, namely art. 14 of the directive itself, which states: "Nothing in this Directive is interpreted as a restriction or a derogation from any of the rights and professional guarantees granted under the European Charter of Human Rights and other provisions of international law in this area or the law of the Member State providing a higher level of protection. The transposition of the directive should therefore preserve the higher level of protection that we actually have. I believe that we do not need to blindly carry out any tasks and instructions. It is enough to say to the European Commission that we have made appropriate minimum rights to access the detainee to a lawyer who are already in the relevant legislation and are working and verified by the practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u197	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. We move on to the next speeches. Mr. Iankov, you've stated, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u198	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The adoption of the amendments to the Criminal Code and the so-called Criminal Arrest, where the notice of detention can be postponed for 48 hours and for a detention of a minor for 24 hours, is an opportunity to create free interpretations of the authorities applying it due to a lack of specific definition for the imposition of protective measures in specific offences. There is a need for sufficient preliminary data giving rise to the classification of each individual case with the application of these measures, namely to this type of crime alone. The broad scope of their interpretation will allow for the arbitrariness and violation of citizens' human rights. The adaptation of the Law, the creation of an advantage of the investigative bodies is a step towards distortion of the legal norms. What will be the next step of the majority in this direction? There will probably be more changes in favor of the government for even stronger validation of Boyko Borisov's sole power.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u199	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u200	Mr. Chairman, before I begin my speech, I will ask you to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u201	Please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u202	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I agree with what my colleagues from the parliamentary group of BSP in Bulgaria have said. I do not live with the illusion that we will vote for the president's veto and it will be adopted by this Parliament. I believe it will be rejected. This is the occasion for my speech. I'm going to try to speak a little bit more combative than legally to be understood more correctly. First of all, I would like to say that there is a famous philosophical law about the cause and effect, which states: "Every reason has its effect, and every consequence has its reason. First I'm going to tell you what the consequence of what we're going to do is, and then I'm going to try to explain what the reasons are. There are two kinds of detentions. The first is the 24-hour detention under the Ministry of Interior Act, art. 73. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 74 of the Ministry of Interior Act, para. 2, p. 6, b. It is said that: The prisoner is entitled to a phone call to report his detention. The second detention is the D.A.'s detention. The prosecutor is entitled, when charged, to increase this detention for 72 hours. At the same time, police have the right to interrogate witnesses within the light part of the day and, in exceptional cases, in dark weather. Now let's imagine this case. The police have arrested a person who suspects he committed a crime. They start questioning him on the bright side of the day. Suppose the light part ends at 5:00, when the police's working hours are over. That's when police arrest comes out, then a warrant is issued for police detention. The person shall then be given the opportunity to communicate to third parties. If during this police detention circumstances are established which ensure, prove that this person is particularly dangerous and so on, and represents, there is an opportunity to commit serious crimes, this thing may be formed in detention, which takes away the right to communicate to third parties its actions. We ourselves understand the futility of such an action. However, let's assume the other option -- the option where after the person is questioned as a witness and his interrogation is over -- let's assume that this is Wednesday and the interrogation is over at 5 p.m. -- then the prosecution's detention order comes out and it's formed as a 72-hour detention. We're pressing charges against this man. I'm saying all this because it's a normal, normal police practice. Don't think I'm making this up. There's a charge going up. The person has the right to an attorney, the right to an attorney. What are his options? If the face is rich and works with lawyers, he knows who he can call. If it's a criminal case before that and he has a lawyer who deals with his cases, he also knows who he can call. However, if the person is held for the first time and has no lawyer, then the opportunity is to appoint him an attorney of the law. The caretaker is not bound by the results of the case. He is not responsible for his actions in front of his defence.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u203	Nice job!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u204	Please! Then you can speak up. In this situation, these two days "48 hours, the person detained does not receive quality protection. It has no one to call, whether to a loved one, parents or others, to find a suitable lawyer for it. In this case, the whole law is not so much aimed at limiting the right to contact third parties as it is at the right to protection. I am very interested in this situation where those who made the proposal have foreseen the hypothesis in art. 63, p. 8, note: "When the prisoner is a foreign national, at his request the consular services of the State shall be notified without delay. Immediately! At the same time, the PPC also has the obligation for the detained foreigner to inform the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Can you imagine what kind of protection this person is talking about?! Consular Services contact the best lawyers and defenders in Bulgaria. They and the embassies concerned may have a political, economic and any other impact to resolve in their interest in this case. Let's imagine the case of that Swede, if I'm not mistaken, who kicked a cleaning lady in the face. Then he was arrested and then released. Imagine that all this had happened to a Bulgarian citizen in 48 hours he would have no connection with anyone. That's the difference. For me, all this says that we are exhibiting a slave psyche and it is at stake here in the Law to be good with foreigners and at the same time to pressure our own citizens. It is not specified which crimes will be subject to this exception under para. 9 of art. 63. It is very good to indicate the type of crime. I understand if this is about terrorism, about some very serious crimes, but the general identification of a crime only shows one thing, and that is it. At the moment law enforcement can't prove the committing of crimes, in this case they are trying with confessions to gather information about the crime committed and on the basis of confessions to collect the necessary evidence. We are talking at the moment and I am very interested in democracy and other things. Here all the time I've been listening for two years about totalitarian systems and other speeches about what's good, what's bad. In this case, also in totalitarian systems, the biggest violations that have been committed have been done with the belief and the fairy tales that extremely democratic actions have been carried out. I am impressed, by the way, that our democracy in Bulgaria is becoming increasingly on paper. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u205	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u206	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will make a speech to try to sort out the argument, so that it is not chaotic and that even the random listeners with a turning impression remain with regard to the texts that we comment on and which are subject to a re-examination analysis in this debate. I present to your attention the text that was adopted at second reading. He's art. 63, para. 9: The Communication under para. 7 with regard to the first specific person can be postponed for 48 hours when there is a first prerequisite for the need to prevent the occurrence of serious adverse consequences for the life, freedom or physical needs of a person. Or the second hypothesis: "When it is necessary to take action by the investigating authorities, whose obstruction would seriously impede criminal proceedings. " I am beginning with this key prerequisite which the previous speakers, and I myself said,...................................................................................in the entire debate at the Legal Commission, including the working group, by changing the importer's text. This is, in fact, the revision of the Legal Commission, which we claim is in line with all the requirements of the Directive. And what are the requirements of the directive? The colleagues who called them "I do not know what they called them are recitals 35 and 38 of the directive. I refer to recital 35 in fine, at the end: In limited cases of exceptional circumstances, provision should be made for a temporary derogation from that right where, in relation to specific circumstances in the case, this is justified by an imperative reason within the meaning of this Directive. Recital 38: Any such temporary derogations should be proportionate. We argue that our proposals are extremely proportionate and measured, strictly limited in time. Therefore, the limit I said is twice as short as the total amount of pre-detentions, to call them, not to be based exclusively on the type or severity of the alleged crime. Here's the criteria, guys. You have been constantly in veto and debate about making a comprehensive, case-by-case list of compositions to be applied to this measure. The directive tells you: see lawmakers in 28 countries, make such criteria that are flexible and flexible enough for your criminal law practice and enforcement to be accurate at the same time and to be balanced in view of the two main interests This is what we did in the working group, colleagues, in which you participated. Representatives were also involved, I repeat, both at the Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Justice and at the Supreme Court of Cassation. I said it yesterday, and I will say it again, within the last three weeks I have set myself the goal of discussing this problem, this issue, this veto with the most prominent, renowned criminal lawmakers in Bulgarian legal science and Bulgarian law enforcement. They convinced me that there was no problem with this criterion, that both the court and the investigative bodies applied it correctly, that they understood what it was saying, that there was no point in loading the text, as centuries ago, and making unnecessary references to this, that, third, fourth crime. As experts, they said that this is completely unnecessary, because here we have a variety of hypotheses, of life's cases, of the actual circumstances under which an act is committed, to have multiple complications. Therefore, definitions, as Roman lawyers have said, are correct, not references and case studies. With this conviction, we have spent a great deal of legislative time in order to improve this text. What was the other manipulation used? This was that you were all commenting on the text of the importer, the text as it started from the Working Group of the Ministry of Justice. Yes, but compare the text of the importer with the texts we adopted and see that to the maximum extent these texts are in line with the Bulgarian criminal law practice and are also in line with the European standard for the protection of the rights of the detained persons. Thank you very much to colleague Stoyanov, who described it, I will call it a "bitual procedural order" of what the situation looks like. He convinced you of what he told you yesterday and the Presidential Legal Advisor Professor Drumeva. She told you yes, unlike the first text, where no comment was made on not informing a defender, here the Constitution is respected. She told you, the author of your veto said it. The right to legal protection is protected by the Constitution, it is also protected by these texts. When you have a defender, you have the direct link to judicial review regarding this procedural act. I will again point out that we have adopted this systematic decision and the norm of art. 63 of the PKK said this about colleague Stoyanov, starting with this:.. A measure for incarceration is being taken................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The other hypothesis is that of the actual retention. Here, again, we have judicial control before and after the imposition of this measure. One of the professors I was discussing this case with, you know what he said? He said: colleague, your concerns are unfounded, there is a rich constitutional practice, but I do not want to give you opinions on this veto because, he says, this veto is out of law. This veto you have turned it into political talk and fear of people. Therefore, honourable Members, I believe: yes, we have not been actively defending ourselves in this period of three or four weeks to explain to the audience in detail what it is about, if at all, to detention, colleagues. It is in the hypothesis of immediate danger to the life and health of many others. If a terrorist carries out an act by means of mediocre acts, by recruiting and attracting a minor, he wraps him around with an explosive device and capture him, what are you gonna keep him informed of the right to notify the person in whom the trigger is to detonate the blast? Is that what you want? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u207	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. A line? Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u208	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Kirilov, Dear colleagues! In any case, the Bulgarian state is a champion in payment of benefits to children whose rights have been damaged in the criminal process. Today we are on the way to wide open the gate to continue this practice. I listened carefully to you, Mr. Kirilov, and, unfortunately, I remained convinced that you read the directive as the devil reads the gospel. Very precise and clear on grounds, as you have called it, 38 is described that such temporary derogations are proportionate and strictly limited in time, not to be based exclusively on the type and severity of the alleged crime and not to affect the fairness of the proceedings as a whole. I didn't understand exactly which one is in this text, which is from the President. On the contrary, Mr. Kirilov, I listened carefully. You're talking to me about terrorism. In order to comply with these texts, it was necessary to accurately and explicitly mention also the members of the Penal Code in which this practice should be applied. Because colleague Stoyanov very accurately and clearly described to you what is the procedure for the detention of a person in the criminal proceedings? first the police, then the prosecutor's office, the way the investigating authority treats him. Do you know that there are cases in which even in the brightest part of the day no lawyer is allowed to the interviewed person? Do you know these things? And this thing opens up a really wide gate for violations. Write: a specific person is written in the text. Do you have any idea how this thing will be interpreted by the investigating authority, by the prosecution? Will this particular person not become several persons because this is the practice? We don't give an interpretation solution. Just to remind you that not a month ago, before the New Year, you rejected an interpretive decision here at the Supreme Court of Cassation without going into detail. What are you gonna hold this kid for when it's not about terrorism about gum theft? And that's pretty sequencing the gum theft, Mr. Kirilov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u209	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Another line? I won't. Dear Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u210	Dear Mr. Chairman, and yesterday I said it, and in many similar cases I have said it, I will be brief to give you the opportunity, Mr. Ivanov, to make a request to the Constitutional Court. What we have done in the working group is to be as careful as possible and to strive to comply with the requirements of the Constitution. Since yesterday's debate and from the opinion of Professor Drumeva, a former constitutionalist, I have remained calm that the texts we have adopted are not unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u211	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any other speeches? Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u212	Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u213	Madam President, honourable Members! The debate is so sharp with good reason. Criminal law is hitting on the highest values in society. That's why everyone's watching him under a magnifying glass. This conservative matter does not tolerate any improvisation, no ambiguity and no change without serious arguments. There's really some ambiguity here. This ambiguity has been hyperbolised in the public domain by, to put it mildly, inaccurate, in order not to use heavier words, statements by representatives of the ruling coalition. I believe that the president's veto gives us a great opportunity to remove this ambiguity and restore confidence, because citizens are currently worried that repression and secret arrests will take place against them. The acceptance of the veto gives us the opportunity to remove this ambiguity, to restore trust in the institutions, and I think we all have an interest in that. The acceptance of the veto is not an expression of some political weakness on the part of the government, on the contrary it is this opportunity that we must take advantage of. If we do not, we will confirm this belief that was created in Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u214	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Lazarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u215	Madam President, I had no intention of speaking. Yesterday in the Legal Committee, the debate was at times quite professional and I thanked my colleagues, but I warned that today in the Chamber would be heard again the untruths, the lies I would say, frankly not untruth, lying because people are fooling themselves. It continues to be suggested that the transposition of this directive is a matter of secret arrests. All colleagues and journalists yesterday found out that there were no secret arrests, there was no disbarment. It is imperative that the authorities provide medical attention, medical care and so on, I will not list and translator if he is a foreign citizen. What kind of secret arrest are we talking about? Some of the colleagues continue to make these suggestions here. This one, first. In addition to making them, honourable Members, they talk about how conservative the system is, the law. Excuse me, who submitted amendments to the Penal Code a year and a half ago? 9, which means the unimportant case of the theft? The BSP colleagues. Stealing in a minor case to drop out like text! I don't want to go back to this debate about conservativeity and non-conservancy of the system. Yesterday I talked long enough about the idea and art. 1 of this directive. And I ask you very much, when you read the directives or the laws, read them from the first to the last term, and do not call on what you get rid of or what you don't understand, quote it here. The idea of the directive is to introduce minimum standards for all countries in Europe Dear colleagues, no one has canceled para. 2 in the PPC that I can authorize husband, wife, ascending, descending for lawyer. Who revoked that right? That's right. And each one, because there is an obligation in the PPC and in the directive, the authorities of pre-trial proceedings must, without delay, clarify the rights of the accused. Someone breaking the law is another matter. Including his right to have a husband, wife, ascending, descending to an attorney in terms of minors and adults. Please don't keep telling these lies about a secret arrest.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u216	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Replies to Mr. Lazarov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Milkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u217	Madam President, honourable Members! There are times, there are laws that, when we discuss or people hear that the National Assembly is working on them, are particularly sensitive. Undoubtedly, such a law is the Penal Code. And we must have no doubt which version of the norm the president or his team read when he vetoed. He has most likely read the current and adopted by us, by you at the end of December legal norm. Look, you don't have to be an exclusive criminal law specialist in order to be able to read the entire directive and understand what its meaning is. We have proposed to you this text in the NKK and in the PPC to be dropped when discussing the bill. Then the president vetoed it. Today you persistently and persistently continue to claim that this text must exist. I'm telling you it shouldn't exist and it should be dropped. Why? The directive introduces a principle of notification of whether the person has been detained, whether an accusation has already been brought against him, introduces the principle that the person has the right to choose people to notify. And not knowing is the exception. The principle is that it is being notified and the directive says... without any particular delay specified by the person detained................................................................................... We are currently introducing an exception with this text. Yes, the directive is allowed to have an exception, but it tells you: you must clearly state the grounds and criteria. Do you have them? There are no such grounds or criteria. It should be in limited cases, in exceptional cases. Are there such limited cases and exceptional cases? There aren't any. That is also said in the President's motives, albeit in other words. None of these have been mentioned, and that is why we have proposed that the text be rejected. There is also something else important that I have not heard about becoming the subject of a debate, but I think it is very important. When a person stays closed, they express a desire to notify a person and they say: "No, this person can't inform the directive, what does the directive say that the authorities should do, and in our text it isn't? First, to assess whether the suspect or accused might be able to make contact with another person designated by them. That is, to always ensure that the person is able to notify someone outside that he is in custody. Your text doesn't guarantee it. In order to say no, the directive says: to assess whether the suspect or accused person could communicate with another person specified by them. Do you have that? He's gone. Is it moderate, is the norm measured? It's not moderate and it's not measured. Are lies and untruths our arguments? Our arguments are not lies and untrue, because they are based on the texts of the directive read in its entirety. I therefore sincerely hope that this text, as you will accept it, will eventually reach the Constitutional Court and people will receive protection. I guess they won't get it from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u218	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. Are there any lines to the statement? Mr. Kirilov, you have a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u219	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I promise this will be the last line and the last statement at all, but I appreciate Dr. Milkov's opinion, and for this reason I can't help but answer because I didn't have enough time in my speech as well. Dear colleague Milkov, this is the part [[shows documentation]] is the correspondence on the implementation of the Directive, in this part is the notification that we have not implemented and have not transposed the Directive. So if your proposal to reject the text is accepted if the veto is adopted, then the consequences of not implementing the Directive will occur immediately in a very short future. This is the reference to the legislation of Germany, France, Spain and the Czech Republic. She's been prepped by the coworkers. I want you to comment only on the German law, the others are even more radical, and the German law on youth courts, art. 67a for juvenile courts, for minors. The norm is: In other respects, the notification to be made in accordance with paragraph 1. 1 or 2 may be omitted only to the extent that the purpose of the investigation would be significantly threatened by it. In such a case, the service of assistance to the youth courts should come immediately. Find out what the criterion is - the investigation, the purpose of the investigation to be threatened. We don't even have 24 hours here. Here we do not even have our first-intensity criterion to have a threat to the lives and health of others. Well, what more can I say about the softness of our legal decision and the measure we've achieved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u220	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Milkov, will there be? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u221	The directive is from 2013. Today we are 2019 and we started legislation in 2018 on the issue on which you received letters that we did not transpose it. It's from 2013! And all I have said is that the texts that you have formulated have failed to transpose it because the directive guarantees rights and indicates in which exceptional cases it allows exceptions from them. We are currently describing in our law a norm that you may formally write somewhere in a statement that you have transposed a 2019 Directive, which we have been able to think properly about for five years how to transpose, but this is becoming awkward.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-16.u222	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. There's a vote coming up. I re-vote the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code adopted by the National Assembly on 13 December 2018. Vote 180 MPs: 137 against 43 abstentions. [[Applause from GERB and "United Patriarchs."]] The motion is accepted. The Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Criminal Code has been re-approved. The law will be sent to the President of the Republic for promulgation in the Official Journal of the Republic within 7 days of its receipt, according to art. 101, para. 3 of the Constitution. That concludes today's session. Tomorrow, a regular plenary session at 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
