ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Please register. Colleagues, please register. Cancel registration! Next registration in 10 minutes. Discovered at 9:27 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u2	Colleagues, please take your seats. We'll make a second attempt to register. Please, registration mode. [[PHONE RINGING]] We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, during the plenary session held yesterday, on 13 February 2019, a second vote was reported and voted on the Draft Law on ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of consulting services between the Public Procurement Agency of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 2 November 2017, signed on 21 December 2018. Following the introduction to the stenographic minutes of the plenary session and hearing the recording thereof, doubts remain that the name of the section is not put to the vote by the second vote and the text of paragraph alone. In the light of the above, I shall put to the second vote the following texts of the Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the Public Procurement Agency of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 2 November 2017, signed on 21 December 2018: "Concluding provision' It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. We are revisiting the final provision of ratification yesterday. Please vote. Vote 177 MPs: 129, against 44, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Moving on to item one of today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE SELECTED CODEX. General Project drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of the laws adopted in the first vote on 12 December 2018 with importers: Gergana Stefanova and a group of MPs, on 23 February 2018; Daniel Kirilov, Christian Mitev, Emil Dimitrov and Iskren Veselinov, on 16 November 2018. The report will introduce us to Mr. Kirilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u3	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! To your attention is the Report on General Law No 853-03-91 of 19 December 2018 on the First Voting Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 854-01-13, submitted by Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova and a group of MPs on 23 February 2018, and the Draft for amendment and supplement of the Election Code, No 854-01-84, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Hristian Radev Mitev, Emil Dimitrov Simeonov and Iskren Vasilev Veselinov on 16 November 2018, prepared on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Law of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria on The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u4	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I take the floor for a statement on the name of the Law, as neither of you nor we have had time to read anything more than the Report which has been presented to us. I ask you honestly: which one of you had time to get acquainted with the 9:00 to 6:00 report when it was distributed and 9:30 when we saw it today? We're offered to vote in the dark. You vote in the dark. You vote things you don't know. You don't know why they're doing it or what they're going to do. Vote them by momentum and you are forced to do so. Even we who participated in the Legal Commission yesterday until the middle of the night, after midnight, do not know what the Report says, as many of the texts that we are now going to look at were taken in general and for processing. Naturally, the Rules do not know in principle the adoption of laws at second reading, where text is read, section by section, but in the Legal Committee the Rules are not respected. More than one third of this law are proposals under art. 83 of the Rules of Procedure, which allows proposals to be made on the spot by the Members of the National Assembly when it comes to editorial and minor amendments being made in the sitting in active mode. However, the way in which this procedure is used completely makes no sense to the provision in the Rules, whereby there is a time limit for proposals between first and second readings, which may be at least seven, at least twenty-one days and which is intended for everyone to make their proposal reasoned and written so that it can be discussed here in the Chamber, outside the Chamber. The proposals submitted to you do not have an elementary assessment by experts. Yesterday, representatives of the Supreme Administrative Court were invited to the Legal Commission, but there were no members of the Central Election Commission. After they pressed you to start this process after he got out of control, they did not come yesterday to say how this would affect practically the electoral process. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we have repeatedly criticised the way in which the National Assembly works, the way in which the Legal Committee works, the way decisions are made, but what happened last night and is happening today goes beyond all limits. Do you not notice that from 0.30 yesterday, when we finished the meeting, today only a few hours later, there are people who are ready to protest? You don't have the impression that citizens' rights are being revoked? And even, I'm sure, most of you can't answer the question why, for what purpose? I had the most sincere feeling and hope that at the end of last year, when the legislative process of the 44th National Assembly was the subject of great criticism not only from the opposition that it would act soberly, like a slap. What more should happen than a group of lawyers who threaten to put their diplomas in protest here, in front of them, because they say, "The law that you do and what you vote on is not the law that we studied?" What more must happen in order to wake up when the Chair of the Advisory Council on Law of the Supreme Administrative Court, Madam President, says: What must happen to understand that the legislative process of the rules under which laws are built makes sense are not merely formal? Yesterday we interrupted the meeting at 00.30, but during those ten hours when we thought about it, no argument was accepted, no feedback was heard. And today many of you will press buttons without knowing what you are doing.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u6	The weather, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u7	I'm finished, Madam President. Tomorrow you and tonight you will go on TV and on the media to tell about solutions that today, now, at this moment, you do not know and you cannot know.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u8	Get it over with, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u9	I'm done with this. This parliament has an 8% rating and the only thing surprising about it is that there are still 8% who believe. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u10	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Here's your speech, Mr. Kirilov. Colleagues, please observe the speaking time. Today I will be strict so that everyone can speak, because the debates will be long.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u11	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Unfortunately, today we will obviously continue with the hysterical pathos we listened to last night until 12:16. I would like to emphasise that in this 10-hour meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs, the opposition has not been interrupted, the possibility of expressing opinions has not been thwarted in any way. Plus, I said it in the Commission, and I will say it now, and we haven't measured the time of speech as per the Rules of Procedure, because it was important for us in this debate to hear both the voices of the opposition and the voices of the Bulgarians abroad, and the voices of the extraparliamentary opposition. Colleague Zarkov once again tries to manipulate your opinion. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Gokov.]] He'll give me a line. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Gokov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u12	Please don't enter into any altercations with the court. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u13	There were rules adopted at second reading in general. The truth is that precisely these rules, these proposals, which belonged to the Bulgarians abroad, were withdrawn from me after this objection by colleague Zarkov. This morning I received a call from Bulgarians from abroad and said: "We have uploaded your debate to see why all our proposals have not been accepted. " It is also speculated by the wording that acceptance was required in principle. The proposals were defined specifically, presented to the Commission, but, you see, the two colleagues from BSP did not think that the full composition of the members of the BSP Legal Commission was involved in this debate. In fact, I am glad that by the end of the debate there are two of your six representatives on the Committee on Legal Affairs. They have remained, but, unfortunately, obviously incapable, obviously seeking to create, I would say, a public product for the Commission's extracurricular work. Videos immediately flowed. [[Shouts from "BSP for Bulgaria": "Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah!"]] on social media, as long as...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u14	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u15	...that this meeting in particular, and thanks for the efforts of the National Assembly and the Bulgarian National Television, was broadcast continuously, including until the last minute of the evening at 00.16 pm. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Even then, there were social media oaths, stigmatizations, protests, and protests. Yeah, I think there's five of your sympathizers outside who are hotly tearing up shirts, they don't really know what the coworkers didn't understand and couldn't tell them what for. On the assertions that repeat, the colleague formulated them, I thought that in December you learned a lesson. Yes, in December, and before that, and now there is an attack by four law firms, one of which serves BSP and wrote their bill on corruption regarding organised criticism of the legislative process. Alas, and last night, but I abstained...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u16	Mr. Kirilov, finish up, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u17	...if we were giving time to the opposition, I was trying to abstain from this debate and last night I would read from the samples of this doctor's work on the legislative process to see what was the situation in the 39th and 40th National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u18	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Mr. Bojankov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u19	Madam President, honourable Members! What happened last night in the Legal Commission was a slap in the face of the Bulgarian people and a severe blow to the democratic process. [[(Radio, shouting from GERB:]] Nothing less, no matter how much you claim otherwise. I'll tell you why. You put on a test the Bulgarian society and challenged it to show whether it has resistance to rise against tyranny, or is it completely on its knees. At 00.00 a.m. at night the chair of the Legal Commission Danail Kirilov on his knee determines which acts in the electoral process Bulgarian citizens will be able to appeal and which ones will not. There were 11 acts left of 48, and then Mr. Kirilov, half asleep...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u20	You were sleeping!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u21	...started judging who was important and who wasn't important. This one seems important to me, this one is not very important. 26a, which concerns the appeal of elections from abroad, is it important for you to see it? Ritually, Mr. Kirilov, you slaughtered the preferential vote on the proposal of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms with your votes...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u22	By the title, Mr. Bojankov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u23	...and the good support of the Patriots! [[Noise and lines from center and right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u24	There will be an opportunity for members to speak. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u25	After yesterday, the Patriots have no right to bear that name because either you are a patriot and you are with the Bulgarian people, or you are a traitor and you are against it. There's no middle ground! [[Lowered applause and cheering: Bravo!]] You're either in power or you're out of power! [[Applause and cheering by "BSP" for Bulgaria: "Bravo, bravo!"]] You've reduced the quota for making a decision to 50%...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u26	Mr. Bojankov, first point please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u27	...so you can replicate...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u28	Please, by the title of...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u29	...that depraved power in the government.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u30	... The law to be your speech, not essentially on members.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u31	Madam President, what I am saying is only the truth. Yesterday from the Legal Committee, I was exhausted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u32	Of course you can tell the truth, but by the title!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u33	Exhausted and disillusioned by what happened! Because, Madam President, I had no faith in democracy and the democratic process in the state. The only thing that gave me hope is that history will judge us all harshly and fairly. Today I can add that we will not leave the Bulgarian society of history and the arbitrariness of a gang, but will...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u34	Mr. Bojankov, I'm making a note!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u35	...pronounce this sentence, which the Bulgarians will say against you very soon! [[(World and long applause and cheers by "BSP for Bulgaria": "Bravo!" (Shouting from OP: "Woo!"), noise and lines by GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u36	Colleagues, please be quiet! Quiet, please! - What's the line? [[People from BSP for Bulgaria are asking for the floor.]] In a minute! Do you have a line? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u37	Madam President! Mr. Bojankov, so the pathetic speech that you were holding is a little strange because we have different positions from the three parties. When a person wants to come out and be competent to speak, he should say these things rather than generalize them. It's like I'm saying that you're not socialists, you're capitalists. [[GERB's reply: "It is true!]] Because you have a business, for example. At least you can be the moral figure of the United Patriarchs because two years ago and something in Gorna Oryahovitsa Radan Kanev introduced you as the new right-wing leader in Gorna Oryahovitsa [[strong noise, laughter and excitement in GERB]] And today you're a member of the BSP!? And you will be talking about morals who had the right, who had no right!? One should have a little shame and respect. Thank you. [[Shouts from GERB: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u38	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Second line? Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u39	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! With the agreement that the people's representative does not deserve a reply in this case, I will say the following. Bojankov, there's a tape! You'll see on this tape! That the debate on the proposals concerning the disputes, that is, those we call the proposals for the conviction of the administrative acts in the electoral process, began before 18:00. What you are trying to describe in some such style does not correspond to the truth. And when there's evidence, whether you're a lawyer or not, we still have to deal with the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u40	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Third line, Mr. Rashidov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u41	Madam President, colleagues! Young man, Komsomol! [[(Strong noise, lines and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u42	Mr. Rashidov, please! Please give a proper address to the MP! [[Strong noise and shouting from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u43	Aren't you too young to call me a whack job?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u44	Colleagues, please be quiet! Colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u45	What are you gonna call me? [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Could it be such a thing!"]] Shut up, you're yelling too much!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u46	Mr. Rashidov, please! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u47	Don't stutter!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u48	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u49	Can you allow that? [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u50	Please wait! Colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u51	Colleagues, in this parliament, the kids can't yell at me at my age! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u52	Mr. Rashidov, wait a minute! [[The National Representative speaks to off microphones. Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Wait a minute, Mr. Rashidov! [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please calm down in the hall! [[People from BSP for Bulgaria are standing on the path to the stand, lines.]] As you can see, I've taken Mr. Rashidov's word right now. Please take your seats! [[People's Representative Vejdi Rashidov speaks on off microphones. Replies from "BSP for Bulgaria": "Procedure!"]] Quiet, please! I'll give you the floor, Mr. Rashidov, please respectfully treat the MPs! Turn around to you. As necessary and as required by the protocol. [[Reply of MP Vejdi Rashidov on off microphones.]] Please take your seats! Here you are, Mr. Rashidov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u53	I haven't lived 68 years a young child who hasn't been in the army to call me a whack job to me! [[Strong noise and shouting from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Order! Order!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u54	Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u55	This isn't a rally! No man who came here deserves such an insult. Not one! How come I'm sitting here looking at you yesterday's little boy, you're gonna call me a whack job? This is not a Komsomol organization! [[(Strong noise and shouting from BSP for Bulgaria.) Applause by GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u56	Mr. Rashidov, thank you. Hole, Mr. Bojankov, please, let's finish the procedure. [[National Representative Anton Kutev wants a procedure.]] Yeah, there's gonna be a way to run it. Mr. Bojankov, come in. Colleagues, please take your seats!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u57	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Rashidov, I apologize to you because I used a dictionary that is not mine, which belongs to a colleague of yours. From now on, I promise you, I will use my words. In my dictionary, there's no word like a whack job. Others use it, others have given this qualification. As far as the Patriots are concerned. Colleagues, you are referred to as "United Patriarchs" and not "Disunited Patriarchs." Last night the ritual slaughter of the preferential vote passed with the votes of the United Patriarchs and there does not matter who is who. Two of the three parties in your unification voted so, supported the DPS, and this cannot remain forever hidden to your voters. They will understand what collaboration you are in with the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and whose votes this vote has passed. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u58	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u59	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u60	Mr. Kutev asked first in the manner of conduct. Him first.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u61	From before, I raised my hand during Vejdi Rashidov! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u62	Mr. Kutev, Mr. Tsonev says he was the first one to ask for the way he was led.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u63	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u64	Here you go, Mr. Tsonev. [[Replications of MP Yordan Tsonev: I therefore raised my hand so early.]] Yeah, okay, I get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u65	Thank you, Madam President. I am doing a procedure in the manner of conduct because you are missing the sitting, and you are missing it because you are allowing it outside the Rules and Procedure, when it comes to the title of the Law, to make speeches on other topics common to the legislation, on who has slaughtered what and on who is depriving Bulgarian citizens of rights. If you had to be objective, you had to stop here the speechable Mr. Zarkov first, because I would immediately ask him: who deprives Bulgarian citizens of rights? The one who voted against the sedentary, or the one who voted for the sedentary? How many hundred thousand Bulgarian citizens, Mr. Zarkov, your party deprives by supporting seclusion?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u66	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Tsonev to me be your remark.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u67	It's the way it is! Yes, to you is the remark. You should have said that. Now I'm telling you what you should have told him and stopped him.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u68	I'll tell him.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u69	Yeah. Because the Venice Commission recommended both language and seclusion and other things. And because you are very good in the legislation, not a word your party has killed the Bulgarian citizens who want to vote...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u70	To me, Mr. Tsonev!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u71	...and who have the right to vote. So be careful which words you use here and at the address of the DPS, and at the address of the legislative process, and at the address of who deprives Bulgarian citizens of electoral rights. [[Applause from the DPS. A line from BSP for Bulgaria: "Where is the procedure here? "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u72	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Kutev, please come in the manner of conduct. Let it be to me the remark, if possible, and not to the Members of the Chamber, as this is the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u73	Madam President, you will have the full comment. It's obviously going to be a long day, you said it at the very beginning, and it's going to be hard. That is why my procedure in the way you are led is to realize the situation and the level at which you are at. You are the President of the National Assembly and above you on our Constitution there is no one. This is because it is considered that a person is elected as President of the National Assembly from among us, who can sufficiently clearly guarantee the dialogue and debate in the National Assembly, which is in fact the basis of democratic dialogue in the state. That is, you are not just a member of GERB at the moment, you are not an elevated or elevated member of GERB, you are a person with special functions, especially on a day like today. Because the debate on the Election Codec is one of the most direct debates on democracy and you are currently the person who should represent this democracy on this field.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u74	Where's the procedure here?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u75	Mr. Kirilov, for example, to allow which...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u76	Mr. Kirilov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u77	Right now he's screaming from there, basically, it's not sympathetic what he's doing, but I'm assuming it's his way of expressing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u78	Come on, the procedure, Mr. Kutev. [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] Here, my procedure is that if you do not conduct this session well, what I have explained so far is your responsibility, if you do not conduct this meeting well, it will be possible for Mr. Kirilov or someone else to scream below, you will miss the meeting, and this is a problem of democracy. This problem of democracy will be your responsibility today. You have allowed several people from different political groups to speak not in the title from the very beginning. But you only remembered to protest about it when the opposition came.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u79	That's not true! And Mr. Zarkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u80	Before that example Mr. Kirilov could say whatever he wanted, you didn't stop him. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u81	What about Zarkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u82	Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u83	And when Yavor Bojankov started talking, you suddenly realized it wasn't procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u84	Please be quiet, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u85	By the way, personally you have punished me for words much simpler than the ones Mr. Rashidov spoke today, but you didn't punish him! I'm going back to what's...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u86	Time's up, Mr. Kutev!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u87	... Your responsibility today. I'm done, Madam President. Your responsibility today will be to preserve the framework of democracy. If you've grown to it I hope you have, because you've been elected to this post, but at the end of the day I can tell you whether you have. I'm not sure yet! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u88	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. I think I am extremely strict in following the Rules of Procedure, because the first speech was given to Mr. Zarkov to give him the opportunity to speak for five minutes in total on the topic of the Election Code, then Mr. Kirilov took part. Please don't abuse the procedure in the way you're holding it! [[Noise and lines by MP Yordan Tsonev.]] You too be strict! I give the floor to anyone who wants to speak and say what they want. [[noise and lines from MP Dragomir Stoinev]] But we have to be very careful because we were talking about the title right now, and Mr. Bojankov has allowed himself to talk about points that we are about to look at in the next few hours. I will insist that you speak directly on the member we are debating right now! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u89	That's what the word was for!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u90	We're moving on. Any other speeches? Mr. Ermenkov, for a statement? Here you go. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u91	By the title.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u92	Democracy requires everyone to speak, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u93	On the title!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u94	Who wants what they want. Let's see what Mr. Ermenkov has to say about the title.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u95	By the title?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u96	He can say something important on the title, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u97	Have you finished your dialogue, Madam President?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u98	Of course, Mr. Ermenkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u99	So I can proceed to my statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u100	Of course, we'd love to hear from you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u101	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take reference to the title, which reads:.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... A title in essence must correspond to the content. A title that we are going to vote on now must be an emancipation of what we have written, and it must from the very beginning give an idea of what lies ahead. I remind you that the Election Code, because the Law is for amendment and supplement to the Election Code, is something which, according to him, is written in itself, in art. 3, para. 1: He is called to ensure free expression of the will of the voter. What you are from now on offering us as content and which in no form corresponds to the title in order to be able to accept it as a title is the exact opposite. All possible free will, or free expression of will, is to be covered with administrative and any other methods by which the Bulgarian people will finally remain convinced that, by expressing their will, someone has not read correctly, has misread, and has received the position of office to win an election because that is how they have set them up. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code would have been better named by the Law on the Use of the Election Code from its main content, ensuring the free expression of the will of the people. I would like to remind you that in this regard, if Temida is the goddess of justice and of the law, remember that she is dressed, blindfolded and do not turn her into a light girl in her underwear! What you do in this law. Because the way you treat the Law is as if you're referring to the expression, I apologize for being a prostitute who should serve you...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u102	Mr. Ermenkov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u103	...the way you're comfortable.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u104	Don't use words like that!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u105	That's why this law, this title doesn't match what we're going to accept. I'll vote against him. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u106	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Please refrain from using such expressions! - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. [[Noise, lines, comments from MP Danail Kirilov.]] Mr. Kirilov, what are you excited about? [[Noise and lines.]] I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. Vote 176 MPs: 120 against 56, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. You're welcome to report, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u107	Proposal of MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid. A new § is being created... ????????????????? Article 14 is amended as follows: ? Formation of polling stations outside the country Art. 14. Election sections outside the country shall be formed: 1. where there is a diplomatic or consular representation in the presence of not less than 20 voters applying under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1; 2. out of t. 1 in the case of not less than 40 voters applying under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1; in elections for Members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria, such sections shall be formed only in Member States of the European Union; 3. in places where, at up to 5 years before the election day, elections were formed at least one election section, where they voted no less than 100 voters; the list of seats and the estimated number of sections in each place shall be announced by the Central Election Commission no later than 50 days before the election day; in elections for Members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria such sections shall be formed only in the Member States of the European Union; 4. outside the places under point 4. 1-3 at the discretion of the heads of diplomatic and consular representations on the basis of the total number of applications submitted or of the total number of voters in previous elections, including where the number of applications submitted for a specific place is less than 40; the heads of the diplomatic or consular representations of the Republic of Bulgaria shall send a reasoned proposal to the Central Election Commission no later than 22 days before the election day. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u108	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! We offer to your attention order for the opening of sectional election committees outside the borders and in the diplomatic representations of the Republic of Bulgaria. A order that existed before the so-called "Limit" was introduced for opening a number of sections in a country outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Union. A limit, which actually leads to deprivation of the right to vote, perhaps a similar limit and such restriction of rights, deprivation of rights, has my dear friend Krum Zarkov. Maybe that's why he's talking about disbarment. I will be interested to see him vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, unfortunately for all, every day Bulgaria leaves tens, hundreds and thousands of citizens. The Bulgarian diaspora outside the country already exceeds two million, maybe two and a half million. There are countries where there is a concentration of Bulgarian citizens and some of these countries are outside the territory of the European Union. Other such countries, fellow Members, will be outside the European Union on March 30th "On March 29th, the United Kingdom is leaving the European Union. One of the countries in which Bulgarian citizens will be affected by this limit is the United Kingdom. The other country with a huge Bulgarian diaspora, I repeat, is the Republic of Turkey. A third such country with a huge Bulgarian diaspora are the United States of America. Another diaspora to tell you. Thanks to the active activity of the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad, such countries are both Macedonia and Moldova! They are also outside the European Union for now. I hope that we will soon accept them into the European Union too! Please support this proposal in order not to limit the rights of Bulgarian citizens! And, of course, a special request to my dear friend Krum Zarkov to support this proposal too! [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u111	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Hamid, I take a line regarding your appeal to colleague Zarkov. You had to take the right position to appeal to him. I also take the floor because, with your speech, you were willing, obviously, to introduce the debate which I raised with my proposal in the second reading of the Commission, with my proposal in para. 2, after the words "Member States of the European Union" let's add to it the United Kingdom of Great Britain. Given that the United Kingdom of Great Britain is present and still a member of the European Union, and given that there are many Bulgarian citizens living there, the Bulgarian diaspora there is one of the most numerous in relation to the other countries, for this reason I have made a proposal that you do not see in the Report and which I accept the fact that it was not voted because it would not receive support from colleagues in the Legal Commission. However, I have taken the floor to point out to your attention that, in fact, without regard to the development of the negotiations and the negotiation process for termination of the UK membership, this problem will stand and we have not resolved it in this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u112	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Kirilov, thank you for your advice on the position I should take when I address my dear friend Krum Zarkov. Dear colleagues from GERB, Dear Mr. Kirilov! This exception, this division of Bulgarian citizens of residents in the territory of the European Union and of Bulgarian citizens living outside the European Union, you did it. You did it together with your smart and beautiful friends from the Reformation Block, to which you were doing far more serious positions than I address my dear friend Krum Zarkov. It has come to the point that, by making the exception, you proposed yesterday the exception specifically for Bulgarian citizens who live in the territory of the UK, to make another exception - that is, we are dividing the Bulgarian citizens not in two but in three! I did not for a reason then make you the proposal to record not living in the territory of the European Union and outside the European Union, but living in the territory of the countries of the United Nations and beyond. I think it's a lot fairer that way!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u114	Who's out there?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u115	Let's stop dividing Bulgarian citizens by where they live! In our Constitution they have the same rights as you, rights like me and rights as my dear friend Krum Zarkov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u116	So many explanations from the parliamentary tribune?! [[Noise and lines: Today is February 14th!]] And today is February 14th, perhaps that's why Mr. Hamid has so many explanations? [[Noise, applause, lines and laughter.]] Colleagues, any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov. [[Noise and lines.]] Let's make a little joke.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u117	Madam President, happy February 14th!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u118	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u119	Honourable Members of the National Assembly! The amendment, which we are debating in one form or another as content, has been debated many times in the Election Code and we will hardly find the ideal option in which citizens of Bulgaria who live temporarily or permanently outside the borders of the state to have the same convenience to exercise their right to vote in the same way as citizens of the country have. Not because of anything else, but because of the purely technical aspects of the organisation of the vote. I believe that each of us, if we turn to common sense, will make it clear to us that there is no way that the sections organised in the Netherlands, France, Germany, Turkey, in other countries will be organised in the same way, with the same degree of convenience, of representation as they are organised in the territory of the state. This is something completely normal and natural and, by analogy, by analogy, hundreds of examples can be found of how countries around the world are not only talking about the European Union, they are organising a vote for their citizens outside their territory. In many European countries, it seems to me that Bulgaria is even leading in this regard. We are doing everything possible for Bulgarian citizens to exercise their right to vote even where they do not live in large compact groups. Of course, there's a pretty serious limit here, and it's about resources, about possibilities. There is no one who is unaware of how to organise the vote from the Bulgarian state abroad and is unaware that this is related to huge funds, money, overload of our representations, diplomatic services. It is good that some time when such proposals are made, the opinion of institutions such as the Foreign Ministry should also be asked and, like all those who organise the vote abroad, we did not have lists of voters abroad until very recently. In this case, the citizens who vote in Bulgaria and the Bulgarian citizens who vote outside the territory of the country, do they vote on the same terms? It is clear that this is impossible to happen not because of anything else, but because it is impossible for a small country like Bulgaria to organise a planetary vote. And when we are increasingly aware of this issue, I think I suggest that they end speculation on this type of amendment. We are doing our best, especially for neighbouring countries, especially for the Republic of Turkey, where it is clear that we have many of our compatriots in economics, for other cultural, religious reasons that have left Bulgaria, but in the end we are doing our best to exercise their right to vote. I therefore propose that we do not turn this part of the debate into a debate on citizens' rights, because no one has ever wanted to, through such amendments, to restrict the rights of Bulgarian citizens. The only thing I think we have been led by as MPs has always been to do the maximum for our fellow citizens abroad and in a different form,................. the National Assembly with international, foreign delegations, meetings with Earth communities, we have always done everything possible. I propose that this particular part of the debate should not be placed on this plane, because it does not concern a deliberate attempt to restrict the rights of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u120	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. - What's the line? Line, Mr. Letifov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Jablyanov, I'm making a line. I would agree with much of your speech, but two things I would not agree with if you would allow me. Firstly, this is a debate on citizens' rights and it cannot be otherwise. In the Bulgarian Constitution it is written that all Bulgarian citizens have equal rights. It doesn't specify who lives where. On the other hand, yes, I agree with you that the electoral process in itself is an expensive activity, an expensive event, which we are obliged to organize, and to ask you: aren't they the biggest investors in Bulgaria, precisely the Bulgarians who work abroad; do they not import them annually into the treasury several billion; do they not pay taxes for their properties and property in the country, including the obligations under Bulgarian law? The question is: haven't they paid their right to exercise their right to vote? They're the ones who paid for it! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Second line, here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zablyanov, I must admit that in your face I really believe that in your group there is a serious, permanent and consistent fighter for the rights of all Bulgarian citizens, regardless of where they live. Thank you for your speech in which you shared with the Bulgarian MPs the essence and meaning of the limit. It became clear that this restriction was introduced not to all Bulgarian citizens living abroad, but to those of our fellow citizens living in the Republic of Turkey. Colleagues, 30 years have passed from events in which hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens were expelled from the Republic of Bulgaria. Do not continue this attitude towards these Bulgarian citizens! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u124	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Third line? I can't see. Mr. Zablyanov, will you have the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u125	Dear Madam President, in line with the lines. Dear Mr. Letifov, the rights of citizens do not arise from whether they have paid their taxes and where they pay them. There are many foreign citizens who make investments in Bulgaria, but do not enjoy the rights of Bulgarian citizens. That is, whether I pay my taxes does not result in my civil rights at least in the continental constitutional and legal systems, there must be some others. That's why I'm guessing you've somehow been misled. Mr. Hamid's reply, although the time passes, is very painful for the Bulgarian people in its entirety and it seems to me that with reason and mutual understanding, with a general guarantee of the rights of all Bulgarian citizens, not only the electoral and social rights are involved, both the pensions and the right to health care, and the use of social security systems of the Bulgarian state. Here I am talking about the whole volume of the rights of Bulgarian citizens. My speech was in the sense that I did not want the debate on citizens' rights to mix up to how many polling stations were opened in the city of Izmir, the city of Bursa, Hamburg or Rotterdam. I don't think the debate should bring him down to this level. On my own behalf, I guarantee, and my personal belief is in the case that every Bulgarian citizen, regardless of where he is, should be able to exercise his right to vote, but I say that there is really no way to compare the voting conditions in a country with long distances. For example, Spain, or the United States, it is normal that they will be opened. In such large countries, outside the European Union four, five, ten sections to be opened. You will not be able to meet the needs or to ensure the convenience. This does not mean that with the opening of a section in a city 1000 km away, it is natural that the difficulty is much greater than if you will vote in Sofia in the next school. The right of the person who will go to vote is not taken away as a result. Of course, he's having a hard time exercising it, but he didn't get the right. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid. They voted 152 MPs: 26, Against 41, abstention 85. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Kirilov, we will continue with the next proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u127	Proposal of MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid: A new §... is being created: ????????????????? Article 36, para. 2 is repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u128	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Our proposal concerns the so-called sedentary position in local elections. The elections for municipal councillors, mayors of municipalities and mayors of town halls. Alinea 2 regulates the period within which those persons must have a permanent and current address in the place where they should vote. Thus written text, colleagues, does not regulate seclusion, but allows some citizens to vote and deprive, deprives them of the right to vote, Mr. Zarkov, deprives them of the right to vote! The sedentary is another instrument, colleagues. The Sedition says: you can't vote here, but you can vote elsewhere. In the real sense of the word, there was before this text was introduced. Does he have to be sedentary? I have to. It cannot be a week before the local elections that someone joins a new municipality and votes that this is not correct, but the sedentaryness in its authentic sense was regulated as follows: which, at the date of issue of a decree to postpone the respective type of elections, in this case, has a permanent registration in the municipality of Hicks, voted there. Then he can't vote anywhere else. Usually the decree of the President of the Republic is issued about three months before the elections, perhaps a little earlier, so sedentary within three, four months is normal in the version in which the President does so with his decree. Then every person has a permanent address in the territory of a municipality and has the right to vote there.. unlike this text, which only says where you have no right, but does not say where you have the right to vote. Because even if Mr. Zablyanov does not make a speech now and does not say exactly what is coming again, it is natural that it is about our fellow citizens who live in the Republic of Turkey, who have a permanent address in some municipality in the Republic of Bulgaria, have a house in some village, pay tax in this village, pay the tax fee. The fee is not a tax without using this service and have the right to vote for the advisors who determine this fee. Please support our proposal. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u130	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. I will put to the vote the proposal discussed by MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid, not supported by the Commission. They voted 153 MPs: 25, against 41, abstention 87. The offer is not accepted. Please continue, dear Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u131	Proposal of MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid: A new §... is being created: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38, para. 2, p. 7 and 8.. to drop The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u132	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Statements? Do you have a request? [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, this is what we do with this law: when we do not arrange the order for Bulgarian citizens to be on the electoral lists and on which electoral lists to be on, and we arrange for order to get Bulgarian citizens out of the electoral lists and include them in the ban lists, but the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria says something else. Article 4, para. 3 of the Constitution says that: "Supreme Bulgaria participates in the construction and development of the European Union. Article 5, para. 1 says that: "Constitution is a supreme law and other laws cannot challenge it. " I mean, art. 10 of the Constitution says: The elections, national and local referendums are produced on the basis of a common, equal and direct selective right by secret ballot. Article 42 also settles this issue and says which citizens have the right to vote and who have no right to vote. I will remind you of this: the citizens who are 18 years old, except those who have been imprisoned and who are being punished for imprisonment, have the right to choose state and local authorities and to take part in inquiries to the people. So I appeal to you to support our proposals. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u134	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal discussed by the MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid, not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u135	Vote 151 MPs: 25, against 46, abstention 80. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u136	Proposal by the National Representative Kristina Sidorova: A new §... is being created: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u137	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention the proposal to drop out of art. 41 of the Election Code. What is the matter with art. 41? This is a prior notice of a prominent position on the preliminary electoral list. To date, in most cases, this article is not respected due to the lack of a place to declare this electoral list. Imagine a school with 15 sections. How will you put these lists on the walls so that they can be accessible to citizens 40 days earlier? Even more so, art. 42 gives enough opportunity to the citizen who has decided to check where he will vote and whether he has the right to vote, to check the location of his section through the city's website, through a phone call, through... What is currently written in the Election Code is an old norm, which in most cases does not work and creates a great deal of difficulty for municipal administrations. Ask the secretary of your municipality how and where they announce these lists, which also contain three names, address and personal data. How do you keep these lists of vandalism, metrological conditions, and do people actually go to see where they're going to vote? The minute you go to the section to see where you're going to vote, you already really know what your section is. He is an absolutely unnecessary member who creates much more difficulties in organising the elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u139	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. - What's the line? A line from Mr. Kirilov and then Mr. Hamid. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u140	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleague Sidorova, I would say that yesterday we did not enter into a detailed debate about your proposal. Your colleagues presented the proposal, but said that today you will defend it in plenary. This is the first time I've heard your arguments, and for that reason I'm going to take a stand. I believe that if we stay within the framework of purely legal arguments, your proposal is justified and logical, and indeed will take place further in the proposals and in the debate, and we are discussing it first. And there is now a public register that is on the website of the Central Election Commission and can be carried out this check. We are arguing with your parliamentary group on exactly what this public register is, and I would say that on yesterday, despite the weather, I am pleased that the GRA was also present, explained in a convincing way to colleagues to find out what is in place the register of the site of the Central Election Commission. I say this without prejudice and generally, in my opinion, on this matter, colleagues should think more organisationally than seeing some political context in things. If we were looking for such a context, I would accuse you directly of imposing a lack of transparency and people would not be able to carry out this reference. But it's true that we have to move towards technologicalization.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u141	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u142	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Sidorova, I don't need to call the mayor and ask him where he puts these things, because in my municipality and in my locality, I know where the lists are. Believe me, there are many citizens in many municipalities, in many areas of Bulgaria who go and check if they are on the lists, and if they find that they are not there, then they call the City to ask why they are not. We cannot, where there are any violations and the norm is not respected, from where we can conclude that the norm must be abolished. The example I am giving in relation to other texts is that drivers are breaking and driving at a speeding speeding speed, should we cancel the restriction in the Road Traffic Act because it is being violated? There are many Bulgarian citizens checking the lists, watching. I understand your proposal, and you mean that it is outdated and we will move on to technological solutions, as Mr. Kirilov said, but there are small settlements where older people don't have this technological opportunity. Instead of collecting money for computers, they collect money for one bread, and sometimes they can't do that.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u143	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. Third line? I can't see. For the back, Mrs. Sidorova? There's not gonna be a duvet. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the National Representative Kristina Sidorova to create a new paragraph. 41 is canceled. They voted 122 MPs: 45, against 24, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u144	Proposal by the National Representative Kristina Sidorova: A new §... is being created: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Art. 42, para. 2 is The electoral lists shall be published no later than 40 days before the election day. In the election of MEPs from the Republic of Bulgaria and municipal councillors and mayors, part two of the electoral lists shall be published no later than 25 days before the election day. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u145	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u146	Madam President, honourable Members! This proposal was related to the proposal to drop art. 41. You still have the opportunity to reconsider your decision and support the removal of the publication of the paper lists in store windows, schools, stops and, as Mr. Kirilov said, let's move towards digitalization. A phone call can be held or checked in the municipality in small towns, Mr. Hamid, I'm sure of it. And especially in small towns, people have long known where they vote. They always vote in the same place.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u147	Ten people need to be hired to answer the calls.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u148	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Kristina Sidorova. They voted 125 MPs: 51 against 19, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u149	Proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MPs Danail Kirilov and Christian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53 the following 1. A new para is being created. 5. The Central Election Commission shall issue a new decision, which shall adopt by a majority more than half of its members, if a decision to reject a rejection decision. 2. The previous paragraphs 5 to 10 become respectively paragraphs 6 to 11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u150	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u151	Madam President, honourable Members! With this text begins a number of norms which colleagues spoke about at the beginning of the meeting. The Central Election Commission is taking its decisions with two thirds of its votes, and this is no surprise. Why? This ensures, after all, representativeness, legitimacy and the opportunity in Bulgaria to act democracy. Because these two thirds of the Central Election Commission, as a permanent body dealing with the most important decisions in the elections, ensure at least that one political force or in collaboration with another will not be self-replicating through these decisions. And what about this text? When the decision is challenged and the Supreme Court brings it back to the Central Election Commission, it has already taken its new decision with one second of the votes, which will practically allow very quickly to move on to a validation that pleases the government. The objection you will be hearing perhaps shortly, if not, I will tell you what they are telling us is that the Central Election Commission, you see, does not implement the decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court. Well, that's not the way. If this is the way, in all material laws, you must now adopt texts in which, when a collective body fails to comply with the Supreme Court's decision, let us reduce the majority by which the decision is made and ultimately be able to do so. This is not a legal instrument, it is a political text that you propose and will most likely accept to validate this government, for its concreteisation. And when we talk about office victories, this is the first clear text, and they will be a lot from now on, with which you want to guarantee your service victories. With a little bit, little enough, however, to make your pleasing decisions. Thanks. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u152	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Kirilov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u153	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! We have been debating these proposals for a very long time. I will present to your attention the following: the proposal has actually been made by colleague Anna Alexandrova. I'm joining her proposal, which I couldn't sign physically at the moment it was made. These proposals follow the logic of the amendment of the Administrative Procedure Code. I say this so that I do not repeat it another five or six times: they correspond to the opinion of the Plenum of the Supreme Administrative Court and their practice. I believe that by the procedural logic of these proposals, none of my fellow Members have any doubt in view of the one-year debate on the amendment of the Administrative Procedure Code. And in yesterday's debate, which I would say was essentially and essential, I put the question not to the President of the Supreme Administrative Court, but to the President of the Fourth Ward, Judge Hinova. I asked what are the most typical cases that describe the hypothesis that we discussed then and now. The judge pointed out the following example: refusal of registration of the CEC. He's appealing to the Supreme Administrative Court. The Supreme Administrative Court says: there are grounds for registration, the requirements of the Law are met. Returns the case file to the Central Election Commission. However, the Central Election Commission still does not adopt a decision to register this candidate. The candidate remains unregistered, colleagues. Please let the law enforcement colleagues hear me: the candidate remains unregistered. His passive selective right has been violated. He no longer has a procedural remedy and we say: nothing more can be done. Judge Hitova in this case reminded me that we have been convicted, Bulgaria is sentenced in the European Court of Human Rights. We haven't discussed, and we haven't studied which official or other person is guilty. What is his responsibility is whether he is under the Law on the Civil Service or under another law, but Bulgaria is condemned.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u154	Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u155	Yes, interesting is the case of this inaction of the CEC who is responsible. Honourable Members, for such cases, they are by no means a majority, nor do they prevail, these are private cases. Our proposal is within the framework of a conscientious debate, because you will see clearly in the movement of the individual paragraphs when we had a normal debate, when we had not particularly constructive such a debate. We have made a proposal: let us also foresee a special quorum here. The text proposed to your attention is by a majority of more than half of all Commissioners. I'm running out of time, but I'd like to discuss it in detail, and if I had the opportunity to do so, the Venice Commission's position in this regard. It is better for the Venice Commission to have an explicit decision than for there to be no solution...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u156	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Mitev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Kirilov, you have, unfortunately, affected very little in your statement of the Venice Commission, as it has become a common practice since the beginning of these debates to quote. I, too, will quote the Venice Commission, which, on this very occasion, says the following: 'Because the members of the electoral committees are appointed by political parties, there is a risk of polarisation if not politicising the deliberations in the Election Commission, and it is possible to block important decisions. It is recommended to re-evaluate the required two-thirds majority in light of the experience gained in the next election. It is clear that the Venice Commission "the Commission for Democracy through Law, as its official name, recommends that the text be amended so far. This correction has been made and I believe that, in the Legal Committee, we have reached the best possible solution, namely, by providing for the quorum to be qualified to be 50 plus not one of those present, as was the original proposal of the importer, and 50 plus one of all Commissioners, which, on the one hand, provides a qualified majority and, on the other hand, also achieves the requirement recommended in the Commission for Democracy Report through a right known as the Venice Commission. You have given, colleague Kirilov, an example of blocking the registration of a candidate, but this can happen with any other decision, thus in practice, the Central Election Commission does not meet the basic requirements of the Law to take decisions that are relevant, respectively, to implement the decisions of the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u158	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Second line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Kirilov, will there be? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u159	Madam President, honourable Members! The text is extremely important for the electoral process and the debates on it went interestingly. The main motive, in order to be understood by non-jurists, is that when a decision of the Commission reaches a court, it cancels it and gives it binding instructions, and goes back to that Commission, it cannot take a decision with two thirds. I mean, we're talking about non-compliance with a court order here. And instead of forcing the unsub to comply with the decisions and to execute the rule of law, we circumvent this law and bring down the quorum with which a decision is made And these 50% actually reproduce the balance of representation in general, reproduce the balance between the political forces in plenary. I mean, the government will have that majority. From there, a shadow will be cast over the electoral process, that the government wants to make a single wish and not to comply with the small parties or with the opposition, to make a decision. This, in turn, will cause tension and distrust in the electoral process, from which they will lose everyone in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u160	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u161	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, here we are faced with a demonstration of how a problem is used, by the way minor, in order to pass these politically beneficial ones. The problem is it happens and it happens 13 times. It is not some mass practice, but it happens that the Supreme Administrative Court decides that a decision of the College body has been taken in violation of the Law, to give mandatory instructions on how it should be taken properly, but nevertheless the authority that must implement this decision should not do so. It goes back to the Administrative Court and a merry-go-round is created. As I said, it doesn't happen often, but it does happen. That's the problem. We are offered solutions that not only do not measure exactly where the problem is, but do not solve it. Why don't they measure exactly because it is obvious that decisions should be sought by those who do not comply with the Law and not by it to be adjusted. Otherwise, what does that mean? Imagine that we are taking a decision, the Constitutional Court says that this decision is non-constitutional and this has happened, giving instructions on what needs to be done, which has happened less often in order to implement the Constitution, and we, instead of complying with the constitutional decision, are going to change the quorumes on which it is taken. And what is the logic when a body refuses to make the right decision, we make this decision easier? Of course it doesn't make sense. Moreover, the correct solution would be to find mechanisms.. if you would with administrative criminal procedures, if you would with the way of seeking disciplinary responsibility from those who do not decide to comply with the Law. Madam President, last week we spoke on your penal code bill, your initiative. One of the problems was that some of the bullies did not comply with the restraining order issued by the court. What have we done? We made sure that there were much more serious sanctions for these offenders, and we didn't make it easier for them to violate the court's order. Wrong logic! And one more thing, we're not gonna change anything, because that CEC that decided not to comply with the decision, it might not do it with a less majority. The problem of the merry-go-round will remain the same. Instead of going up two thirds, it will go up 50 plus 1. So the problem is not going to solve at all.. these 13 cases will remain 13. In fact, whether they stay 13 or go up or down depends on the people we send to the CEC another question. Finally, the reason for having a two-thirds majority is very important. The reason is not to ensure direct automatic superiority of one political force or political configuration over others, allowing her for political reasons not to comply with the Code. So the reason is exactly the opposite of what's being offered to us, and we're going in the wrong direction. Please accept our arguments most purely, take into account the reasons why qualified majority is built at first reading, and if you want to concentrate on the problem where it exists and not instead of solving this, to create others, by the way, far more severe, because they affect democracy and establish a regime.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u162	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Popov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u163	Thank you, Madam President. In itself, the new text, this proposal in § 1, art. 53 completely contradicts any logic, not only legal, which creates certain majorities for decision-making. In this Election Code, there is such a qualified specific majority of two thirds when it comes to the return of a decision by the Supreme Administrative Court. The competence of the committee, then, when it comes to a really tough decision, a serious and important decision, must be two thirds. That's the way it is all over the world. No problem is solved anywhere with the cancellation of the two third majority, because in practice you here offer this.. you have proposed more than half of the members present. Well, even if it is more than half of the members of the Central Election Commission, in the same article. 53, para. 3 says that the CEC meets when more than half of its members are present. In practice, you have made an offer here...................................................................................................... 3 that even outside the sittings the CEC can take such a decision, which requires two thirds of the majority, with more than half of those present, who may be three people, which is absurd. Therefore, we cannot support this text. We don't support him! We are opposed because with this text, if followed more carefully and a little further down in the proposals and before that, a one-party dictatorship is really being introduced here. The decisions in the CEC and in general in the authorities that are watching for the elections can be taken one-party that is the goal! This is the goal in order not to comply with the quotas of the other parliamentary parties represented or those in the European Union who have their members in the Central Election Commission, and the majority to be able to make its own decisions at any time. Nothing more, nothing less! That's why we can't support him. Furthermore, in § 1, the proposal goes beyond the scope of the text of the Law at first reading. There is something quite different here, quite different from the first reading, which was the original proposal concerning the practical cancellation of the engine vote. This is something else entirely, and I think it is unacceptable, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u164	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I put to the vote the proposal supported by the Commission by Anna Alexandrova, Daniel Kirilov and a group of MPs to create a new § 1. Vote 127 MPs: 75, against 45, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Mr. Nedyalkov, come in for a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u165	Madam President, honourable Members! For the holiday, keep it in mind, because the holidays today are at least two. I would like to state why I voted negatively, why I voted against. There was no way I could vote not only because of the principle of the dispute. I also voted against it because of the incorrect report of the Legal Commission. In Mrs. Alexandrova's proposal there is a text which was not at all affected in the so presented report for dropping the sentence second of para. 4 of the article in question. 53. It is also a principled and very fundamental issue: when a decision is missing the necessary majority, there is a decision on rejection that is subject to appeal. [[Reply from DPS: "The map. "]] My card's here. Here, in the Commission's opinion, it should be that the proposal is generally supported only on the next item. 2 and not by t. 1. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u166	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: screated §...: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. point 9 is amended as follows: Nine. establish and maintain a public register of voters who are entered in a name, a single civil number (personal number), a permanent and current address; for this purpose, the Directorate General for Civil Registration and Administrative Service at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works shall provide the Central Election Commission with free access to the data in the register of the population; 2. A t is created. 9a: 9a. Provides an opportunity for each voter to refer to the register under point 1. 9 by single civil number (personal number). The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u168	Please proceed with the next proposal. It is to the same paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u169	But another point, Mr. Chairman. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u170	Okay, so you're keeping it separate? Okay, thanks. We're moving on to speeches. You have the floor, dear Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for understanding. The two proposals concern different topics and are from different authors, so they deserve to be discussed separately in order to acquaint the Members of the National Assembly with the issues that are being put before them. As it became clear, they did not have much time to examine them in advance. In essence: since 2014, there has been an obligation for the Central Election Commission to keep a Public Register of voters. That is, not a register of people who are entitled to vote, but a register of people who have exercised their votes. This idea was once laid down as the introduction of the so-called "active registration" and followed with the relevant procedure in the Transitional provisions. We have a similar idea today, so this is the first part of a common proposal. For political and constitutional reasons, due to sanctions that were intended for non-voting, active registration dropped out of the final version of the Code, but it remained the CEC's obligation to keep a Public Register of Voters. Such a register, for such a whole five years later, will not! It wasn't created! With our proposal, we aim to create it. We are also making another proposal: we want the CEC to be entitled to direct access to the database of the Directorate General for Citizens Registration and Administrative Service and to be able to update this list, because over time, and it will become clear how it can happen when we look at the Transitional and Final Provisions, this list would be much more adequate, to serve as a base, for the beginning, by which the electoral lists are drawn up. Only last month we found out that between the data contained in the CRO and which serve as a basis for the electoral lists and the data of the National Statistical Institute for people living in Bulgaria, the difference is one and a half million people! And when we talk about dead souls, we don't talk so much about people who have died and exercised their right to vote, not that it doesn't happen, but that's not the main problem. The main problem is the people, the many people who have left the country, naturally, without changing their registrations, and who are registered by address, appear by address, but are practically not there. And that's what everyone knows. Almost 30 years ago, in 1991, here, from this tribune, after the first free elections in Bulgaria, there was a dispute between the losers and the winners. Then the winners are from BSP. The losers blame the winners for using 550 thousand dead people. Whether they were right or not, I can't say today. However, I can say that from 1991 until 2019 our country finds no way to counter this problem, this doubt, if you will. So this public register of voters is necessary. There is a big difference whether you start building the election list of three and a half million people, as they voted in the last elections, for example, or eight million, as they appear in.............. and administrative service............................................................. That's a step forward. That's our offer. And please, if you decide and continue to reject it, at least tell us how we solve this issue. There's something else that's also connected. Let us assume that there is no way to make a major reform of civil registration from today until the European elections. Heavy is understandable. But we can make it relatively easy for people to check if they voted. I say: we can make sure that there is access to this public register of voters, so that our fellow citizen or fellow citizen who has lived in Melbourne for three years, see if she voted in Targovishte yesterday. We can do this. And that worked. Remember back in the day, there was a problem with fake signatures on the signatures that parties collect for different elections? There was a problem that they were filled out by party functionaries at once. This problem is solved when you create a way to make a reference to the CEC whether someone has signed on your behalf. This was done with amendments to the law and the problem largely solved. With this proposal, we offer two things. Firstly, let's start finally clearing the electoral lists, and, secondly, let's give people the opportunity to control whether or not someone is abusing their data. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u172	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? You have the floor for a line, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u173	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Zarkov, you and I have had the opportunity to argue on this subject. What you are proposing will in no way change things from the point of view of the final election result. Those people who say they live abroad, and they're registered somewhere, they're not dead souls, they're real people who exist. They can live abroad, they can live in another community and so on, they're not dead souls. That won't change the outcome. We have also proposed active registration in order for civil society to register and those who have registered to vote to have an optimal result, but ultimately what you are proposing will simply not change anything. What you are talking about and giving examples of the dark past of the first years of democracy is a fact. Then there was indeed a vote of dead souls because then the party diversity in the country was not yet widespread. In all the committees there were no representatives of different political parties and in small sections and in sections where a party had dominance and elected or appointed the members of the committees, these things were happening. The people who were not there to note that they had voted and put the ballot on their behalf. There was that, and it's a fact. But now we live in other times. There are probably a hundred political parties in Bulgaria. At least 60 are in elections. Each of them, who are parliamentary represented, have members of the committees, and some of the parties have several persons. Each party or candidate sends advocates. Separately, there are non-governmental organizations that send observers. So this process, in order for it to happen, is very difficult somewhere to make such a fraud. Rather, if there is a fraud, it may be when the ballots are counted or when the ballots are transferred and not so much when the vote is taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u174	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Second line? You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm taking a line to assure you of this. I was inclined to support this opposition proposal because it corresponds fully to the current text of this motion. 9 in para. 1 of art. 57. However, it was extremely useful to clarify what the Director of the Grapo made. I am pleased, for the second time, to say that the Director of the GRA explained in detail the technology of fulfilling the current obligation by law and of administering and operating this register. This was also our argument in the debates so far that, in fact, opposition colleagues did not understand the content, the action of a register that has it and is publicly available on the website of the Central Election Commission. With regard to the EGN check, as written here in order not to have emotions, I will not escalate which texts it writes and how much it understands them, but I will refer to a Commission decision on the protection of personal data which expressly obliges all personal data administrations to provide a reference on more than one identification criterion. This is not appropriate and has not in any way been decided by this proposal. And now, honourable Members, verification of whether or not a certain person has voted can be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u176	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Third line? I can't see. Mr. Zarkov, you have the right to the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u177	Dear Mr. Chairman, allow me to thank the replicators and try to answer them. Mr. Angelov, I never claimed that dead souls died. On the contrary, I was trying to explain that this general term explains the fact that, obviously, there are many more people in the electoral lists, and the way they are printed today, than those who exercise their right to vote at times. Again, over eight million is the data right now. Unfortunately, we're not that many. More than two million people, I am sure that the experts from the CRO will confirm that they have no way to follow the migrations of Bulgarians in the different parts of the world. I mean, there's a problem. Why is that a problem? Because this creates a vote reserve, that is, people who have the right to vote, who are known not to vote, because the mayor or local people there know that they have not lived at the appropriate address for years and this can contribute to supplementing the ballot or setting the results. And that's what's happening today. Today! I'm not taking you back in time, although some proposals from here bring us back in time before 1991. About what Mr. Kirilov said. Look, references can be made in any way... you don't like it with CNN, to invent ARC, you can check any one of you in kindergarten, anywhere, ways there are. It is very important to create this opportunity and at the moment I claim it is gone. I claim that this public register of voters, as it was intended and as it should have been under point. 9 of the Law, not created, and I want it to be created. I want it to be developed so that, if not in these elections, in the next few, we have a clear database from which to start building lists. Otherwise, as much as you're explaining to me that everything is fine, the NSI says that there are six million people here, and the GRA explains to us that there are eight million voters. Common sense doesn't accept that. We're offering a solution. You reject it, offer nothing, raise your shoulders and say: "In the end it's fine. " - No, it's not fine. It's not good! It creates prerequisites for fraud, which, even if it doesn't happen, delegitimate the electoral process and thus delegate all of us here. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u178	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u179	My fellow Members, at the risk of repeating some of my colleague Zarkov's arguments, I think that most of us in this House, regardless of which region they were selected from, have faced this discrepancy in the electoral lists. For many years in a row, by the way, I remember that the non-compliance with the electoral lists, the bloated electoral lists were one of the main things that were discussed publicly regarding how the election process could be affected. I do not believe there is an MP, and I do not believe there is a citizen in Bulgaria who is not aware that this is a key problem for our electoral system. The mechanism by which such things are always decided, that is, they are rejected and not resolved, is always this. I wasn't involved in the very workmanship of the texts, but I watched carefully while it was being done. I know that colleagues have been absolutely thorough in finding the way in which to solve a lasting problem of the electoral system. They offer one solution. Okay, I accept that we have comments on the decision, although since 1991 voters lists have not been updated in the same way. This is not the first proposal to solve such a problem and each time it is done in the same way: You have not given the best solution, but there is nothing else. What I saw with my eyes is that we tried to develop a solution that to one degree or another to work. Okay, I understand if there was an offer that would answer and that would solve the problem, and I have no doubt that each of you had this problem in their constituencies, then I understand the resistance. But when this resistance comes without a solution to an obvious problem, this, colleagues, is the same thing that has been happening for 28 years. This is actually the reason for the 8 per cent rating of the National Assembly, this is actually the reason for the distance between the citizens from the so-called "politices" because this is the reason why they see us as absolutely pointless people in this House because for 28 years we have no solution to this problem. I would support any decision you make. Gentlemen of the Patriots, make your decision! Because at the end of the day, I apologize to my colleagues at the DPS, but the main suspicions of using the unnecessary people on the electoral lists fall to them. And now suddenly it turns out that you're defending the position, and I don't even understand why! After all, I have been a member of parliament for five and a half years in a mixed area, and I know that there have been several suspicions in a village of some people who are voting and who are ultimately on the lists. Doesn't that interest you? Isn't that your subject? Why don't you make a decision? The answer that this decision, I accept, is probably not the most perfect one, although we have not come up with anything else, give your decision. Because otherwise, gentlemen of Patriots, even though you are the first term here, you become part of all those 28 years in which the decisions have been rejected in the same way. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u180	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. - What's the line? I can't see. To speak, Mr. Angelov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u181	I wasn't going to take the floor, and I'm not a specialist on the Election Code either, but I have to make a few specifics. When we talk about solving problems and when we talk about how to find the optimal option, we need to offer a really optimal option. If, for example, BSP wanted to make such an option and those people who live permanently outside the settlements, suggest that each choice be settled. And that's when the problem is solved. We now have seclusion for local elections and for European elections. Propose both parliamentary and presidential, then those people who do not live in the settlements will be removed from the lists and there will be an updated list. Here's the solution to the problem. Obviously you may not dare suggest something like this because in parliamentary and presidential elections and your party depends on the vote of these people. The other, by taking them off the lists and the man came back from somewhere, and there is no principle of seclusion, for example, for parliamentary elections, with his ID card, where he writes the permanent address and the section in which he should vote, who will stop him from voting?! He has a right to vote. So what's it gonna be? How are you going to stop the trip, for example, that you claim the DPS is doing?! You can't stop her like this. People come home, there's no principle of seclusion, and they vote in the section. It's a fact! You can't stop him for not being on the electoral list, for example, because he's been away for a long time. There's no sedentary principle, a permanent address comes in the section, they add it to the list and vote. So I'm saying that what you're proposing may be in the right direction, looking for an option, but it won't solve anything. It's the truth!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u182	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. A line? Here you go, Mr. Kutev. [[(The National Representative Anton Kutev from the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (BSP) is refusing to take the floor for the benefit of the National Representative Danail Kirilov from GERB.)]] You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Comrade Kutev. Dear colleagues, I did not see, otherwise I would have preferred a second line. Colleague Angelov, you did not say anything significant in your speech. It is not for the sake of the fact that, in the last parliament, the United Patriarchs were the initiators and in 2016, we have long debated the definition of voting is mandatory and what would be the consequences of failure to comply with this? [[Replications from OP.]] We said: an obligation that is the civic duty of every voter! Then you reminded us of that too. We have foreseen such a mechanism. This mechanism was: if, in two consecutive choices of the same species, one person was not involved, then he would be removed from the list, but he could, if he appeared, and where he appeared, be able to be listed as quickly as possible. What happened, guys? The Ombudsman of Bulgaria saw in this again unconstitutionality. The Constitutional Court annulled our quasi-active registration, which was in fact the only consequence of the word "vote." Thus, the Patriots, who were then not united, but were in parliament, and GERB solved this case. We've come to a decision. You in the text give no solution, no mechanism. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Mr. Chairman, for the second time, five seconds before the two minutes pass, you ring the bell. I'm asking for a second minute penalty for delaying my time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u184	Dear Mr. Kirilov, if you've paid attention, I'm all warning you five seconds before they can finish their thought right in time. Mr. Kutev, are you retreating? Mr. Prodanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Angelov, you are trying to give some recipe for solving the problem of dead souls in the electoral lists of the thesis of staying. There is still the scandal with the passports for the Bulgarian citizenship you issue. Did you know that in Sofia, only in Sofia there are 10 sections with more than 1500 voters, just registered by such citizens, with such issued Bulgarian passports? After all, they have this seclusion with which you propose to solve the problem. They do not live in Bulgaria, do not exercise their electoral rights and have no desire and intention to do so. The bad news is that these lists and people are used quite often precisely to manipulate the vote in certain areas and in certain settlements. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u186	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. Mr. Kutev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u187	Mr. Angelov, I personally don't understand this position. The position in which a majority MP says: "Well, you, if you wanted to solve this problem, would have done just what you did, so I take the line. We're from the opposition, and you're from the government. And you, if you wanted to solve it, how would you do it?! Because all these things... whether seclusion is the way to this, is another conversation. And whether or not our point has anything to do with the sedentaryness of this is also another conversation. But the point is that at the moment the responsibility for all decisions lies with the majority that governs and of which you are part, and you are explaining to me that if BSP wanted to decide, it had to do so. And where are you in this scheme?! Are you not a member of the ruling majority who should offer the right solutions, agreeing that such a problem exists? At least that's what I've found out so far. So stand up for a ruling majority MP and give me the proposals that I don't see here.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u188	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u189	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Kirilov, you're right, I didn't give the example, but I told you what happens in general when a person is taken off the list and can always go to vote. About the replicating gentlemen from the BSP. Quite purposefully, taking the floor several times already, I have not allowed myself to pick on a political topic, to make a political statement, but to talk specifically about the situation. I really hate that both Mr. Prodanov and Mr. Kutev have had the conversation right now on this subject purely as political, which is not normal, is it? There is no relation to who has Bulgarian citizenship and who does not have Bulgarian citizenship. These are Bulgarian citizens! They're Bulgarians! They can register anywhere they want, because this is their country. Henceforth, when you give examples of where it was manipulated, go out and say, right here, these people were manipulating the elections. This is where these people manipulated the election! Because, speaking of which, a common statement, without any facts and evidence inside, we are making a political statement, and we are not solving the problems we are talking about right now. That's my request. In this regard, I have in no way allowed myself a political speech, contrary to what the situation is, what is happening with this proposal or without it. And you're making political statements, which is not good for me, but it's your choice.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u190	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. You have the floor, dear Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My speech will be very brief and will not be political. After all, Mr. Angelov, in your duplicate you draw such conclusions that we have political statements. I invite you, if you want, after the meeting, to give you an example with 10 sections by 1500 voters.. these are 15 thousand voters, with the results that are obtained there, with people who are fictitious at these addresses so that they can obtain Bulgarian citizenship. Fifteen thousand voters is a big problem because it really perverts the vote. So don't think of it as a political issue, but as a real problem that we are debating and trying to find a solution to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u192	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Next statement you have the floor, dear Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is obvious that there is a problem with the vote itself in Bulgaria, with its coverage, with the election result, in general with the entire voting process. He hasn't passed or frozen in the past. He is now in the present, he will also be in the future. What's the problem? I'll try to explain it as understandably as possible. One section of a small section polling commission, in a small settlement, with a number of members of the selection committee, people know each other. It's lunchtime, bye-bye Ivan has decided to have lunch, there are no members of the SIC left, and they decide that someone will not come. They know that he is not in the respective village, they sign it and vote for him. Then it's reflected in the electoral protocol: they voted just how many you are, how you are. This happens, of course, in larger sectional election committees. You have all been witnesses, you have been acquainted with this problem and the whole Bulgarian public, but you do not want to solve it in any way. This is not about any unconstitutional proposals, as was the mandatory vote. It's a mandatory right, a little bit like wooden iron. That's what I said back then. It is about a really serious problem and other data can be introduced here, say: ID card, passport number, ARC, as said colleague Zarkov. What do we suggest? To create a register and then every Bulgarian citizen can check in this register, with this code or NGN, or any combinations of code and NGN, whether they have voted, or if someone has signed it, forged its signature and voted for it, then can refer to the competent authorities. Say: "Hey, I wasn't at home that day. I was at sea, for example, and I didn't vote, but there I reflected that I voted. " - Regardless of who and how. That's why we're suggesting that this thing gets cleaned up. What do you suggest? First, the cancellation of the virtually machine voting. Secondly, the introduction of dictatorship into the electoral administration. Majority?! What was that majority thing?! Qualified two-thirds. What do you mean?! What was that democracy thing?! There's no point in her! We're allowed to. We offer some permission to have transparency, to have a register, for people to be able to check whether they voted. What do you mean?! You can't! And without any argument at all. Of course, the arguments have been the same for years now. And when we've proposed it, and now, when we propose it, it can't happen, Sakan, see, because it would violate some of the parties' electoral procedure, buying and selling votes, which is a crime, honourable MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u194	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? For all who expected that there would be no interruptions, we continue to work. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to be patient. Please continue, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u195	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to return the debate to its essence, namely what we are proposing is laid down in the Law itself, in the Election Code of the Central Election Commission to establish a Public Register of the electoral. I will not go back to the motives that my fellow Members have presented in their speeches. I will just add that I fully agree with them and support them. I will go back a little further, as I have asked a question to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. Then it was Mr. Nankov, and we had this debate with him. In a private conversation over there, Mr. Nankov said I was right and crossed my fingers. Except, guys, this thumb-squeeze thing is not gonna happen, let's face it. We are proposing whether you like it or not. We are doing this because we are convinced that this is the way the electoral lists can be cleared. If you have a better offer, do it. Let's talk about it. Either way, I think that for the moment, as much as you don't want to admit it, this is the best proposal. On the other hand, clearing the lists will also be able to show us what the weight of the mandate is in each election area, which I think is useful for each party so that it can see its representativeness. I'm going back to our proposal, colleagues. Our proposal is to comply with the Law. If we don't follow it, let me know. If compliance with the Law interferes with the electoral process, also say it, but let it be clearly stated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u196	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a speech, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues, in fact, the proposal of BSP colleagues and now exists as a point. 9. The Acting T. 9 There it is, there is provided for this register, and in this case additional to what data will be entered in the register. However, the problem is that the proposal for this paragraph does not state that it is in fact a register of voters only. And this is seen by looking at the end of the Report and the proposed § 22a, where it is intended to take the data from the last parliamentary elections and on this basis to make the electoral lists. I don't understand, I don't see, and I don't understand what this register is about, since all the voters are not going to be listed. Perhaps after that, another attack by the opposition will be: You are denying citizens the right to vote. Not all voters are listed on the electoral list. If there is to be such a register, it must belong to all citizens with electoral rights. This is where I remind you of the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2017 when an attempt was made to introduce an active registration. This proposal, which you are proposing, is not new, has already been made in the adoption of the Election Code in 2014 and has been terminated for reasons of unconstitutionality. If the idea is to have a Register to check the U.N.N.N., and who wants to check whether it is not signed on a list when it has not voted, similar to the checks on the registration lists and signatures, this idea does not, however, appear in this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u198	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? Here's a line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u199	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Mitev! I'll try to make my line brief. You were absolutely right, but you didn't remind your colleagues not only that their proposal didn't work, but you didn't remind them of their arguments in 2016 about how it took the right of individuals, how individuals could be removed from the lists... pleadings in this direction. I will not announce that they were related to the Ombudsman's initiative to put this matter before the Constitutional Court. I would like to make a big point, because now, on this topic, colleagues are speaking, who are making a debut, who did not bother to be on the Legal Commission yesterday at all. Yeah, two coworkers stayed probably almost 10 hours, but other colleagues experiment in their exhibitions as if they were reading them for the first time. Maybe it's the first time they've understood them.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u200	You're making a line for Mr. Mitev, aren't you?!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u201	Honourable Members, and now you can safely check whether I voted or not. The question is that the voter should exercise his rights and ask to see the source to see the list of the election day, to see whether it is signed or not. It's a simple check. And he has a right to ask for a fix after that. It's as if there is no regime to remedy circumstances on the electoral lists. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u202	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. You graduated five seconds early.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u203	That wasn't exactly a line!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u204	You have the floor, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u205	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleague! We suggested it. This proposal is contained in item 1. 9a.. provides an opportunity for each voter to refer to the register under point 9a. 9. And this register is public and it's central. From any point on the Internet, a person can check whether he voted or did not vote. I don't see what you're so scared of. You now have such a responsibility to say whether it is a coalition, if it is a trapezoid to GERB, I will not go into details, you know, but tomorrow this thing that you are voting on will turn against you. Including because your voters, who will vote for the United patriots, can be signed there, who will not be able to vote in practice and exercise their right to vote freely and personally. I have been provoked, honourable Mr. Chairman, please, when the Chair of the Legal Committee is morbulating here, by this tribune, who was and who was not on the Legal Committee...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u206	We counted your vote, didn't we?!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u207	Yes, I have come and been to another committee, Mr. Chairman, after you refer to me in the next room.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u208	Dear Mr. Popov! If you have a line...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u209	Because committees are being made at the same time, dear Mr. Chairman of the Legal Commission. And I've declared how I'm going to vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u210	You may take the floor in the manner of conduct, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u211	I've stated how I'm going to vote on each of the texts. And it doesn't mean I haven't read them, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u212	Mr. Popov, don't get into a fight. Take the floor on another occasion.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u213	Yes, and in the subject of a personal explanation, because obviously, President Kirilov is referring to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u214	No, you weren't mentioned by name.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u215	Let's just say that when we voted on these texts, there was nothing that you meant here, just from that tribune you were talking about. Absolutely not. Take out your transcripts and see what we've talked about. Then there was talk of mandatory voting, not electoral lists...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u216	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u217	...and the right to be entered or accordingly written off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u218	Third line? You have the floor for the third line, dear Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u219	Dear Mr. Mitev, I appeal to you by making a statement with a very short question: is there electoral manipulation in Bulgaria, are dead souls used in Bulgaria to reproduce a single authority in the government? You will now rise and answer me. Is there a use of lists of people who are not in the country in Bulgaria? Stand up and tell me. Because this is our solution to this problem that we see. Do you see a problem? Because yesterday I was in the Legal Commission and the answers were that the deadline in the "Transitional and Final Provisions" was short. Well, offer it for the fall for the election. And to Mr. Kirilov, I will say one thing: Mr. Kirilov, there are no normal people who will accept the Election Code in a European country, in the Legal Commission until 00.30, so that you can count from which political power how many people stand until 00.30 with you to talk to witheads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u220	Mr. Milkov, you've questioned something. Dear Mr. Mitev, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the replicators, back to the front. Dear colleague Milkov, I am not a court of law, and I have no intention of making decisions here regarding whether or not there are manipulations. It is a fact that, until now, there is a single decision of the Constitutional Court to cast a single mandate. This is about your question. However, I think otherwise, that if your proposal is adopted in this form, especially with this addition to the final report of the Legal Committee on this bill, we will open the door to incredibly many additions to the lists, as many people will not fall into these lists for some subjective, but others for objective reasons. Instead of solving a problem, we're creating a new one. This is not the way to clear the so-called dead souls. We suggested an option. The colleague Kirilov is right, we proposed an option in the last parliament. The Ombudsman of the Republic Mrs. Manolova then attacked these texts, the Constitutional Court ruled. I cannot understand your stubbornness in terms of proposing texts that go against the Constitution, they are rejected in voting on the Code by your majority then, 2014, and the Constitutional Court has again ruled that this is not the correct legal solution since 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u222	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Mr. Ermenkov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u223	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll remind you what it says in art. 57, p. 9 in the current Code of Conduct:........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 9a is because we are changing t. 9. So I'm not going to stop at the second part. She still exists. However, I would like to draw attention to the Public Register. Several times, colleagues from our party and from our coalition came out and defended the thesis said it was high time to make sure that the law responds to the reality and this register, which belongs to the voters, is still to register as close as possible to the people who have the right to vote, to those who are alive, to those who exist here and to those who are willing to vote. Because the further this list is and this public register of voters, the more names there are on this list, some of which, as we have already said, have numbers up to a million deviations from real voters and real ones on the list, the more harm the small parties are. I'm telling you this very seriously, even though this is perhaps to the detriment of the two major parties here. The bigger the base on which the threshold is calculated, the smaller and the smaller the likelihood of small parties entering parliament. The existence of unrealistic lists creates a problem for democracy in the country, creates a problem for democratic representation in the country. Therefore, many of the people who are outside do not feel parliamentary represented. And this is one of the reasons why these people feel the same way about a large number of supposed voters as a basis on which the percentage and threshold for entering parliament are calculated and the real number of such voters. And not to wonder some of the current parties, which are here at the moment and who will not support our proposals, why the next parliament will not enter. It is for this reason that a large number, a large base, a large threshold, unrealistic, unfortunately, and made especially so. Perhaps the trend is once in the future to become a two-party system in which two large parties will distribute their pie in the country. Democracy then where does it go?! Remember what I said to you at the beginning about the Law and its name and you will see that I was right, including this text. Please support it in the interests of the people, in the interests of greater democracy, in the interests of the greater representativeness of the people of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u224	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I can't see. You have the floor to speak, dear Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u225	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My personal observation shows that out of every 10 Bulgarians nine believe that the elections in Bulgaria are accompanied by election frauds. Perhaps I am pushing things too hard, but there is no denying that at least every second Bulgarian thinks like I think that the elections in Bulgaria are accompanied by election frauds. These electoral frauds, no matter what the elections are, whether they are European, whether they are local or national, for the parliament of the Republic, have them. They are the most diverse, starting from the replacement of protocols, forgery of protocols, replacement of results in these protocols, reporting the votes of people who have not voted, presence of people on the lists who have died. Today we are making a proposal that does not solve 100%, does not prevent 100% election fraud, but at least gives some solutions against some of them to avoid or at least these practices becoming more difficult to implement, namely to take into account votes of people who have not voted or to take into account the votes of people who are on the lists but who have died some time ago. I think there's a misunderstanding of our proposal. Our proposal is not nagging, it does not complicate the electoral process in any way, it gives no medicine against election fraud, but in people's eyes it makes the election process a little more honest. What is wrong with every Bulgarian being able to check in a register whether he has exercised his voice or if not, whether someone on his behalf has exercised that vote because the electoral right is personal in this case?! I think if you don't accept our proposal today, on May 26th, an interesting story that I'm going to try to tell you will sound like a joke.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u226	What's the paragraph got to do with it?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u227	Well, it's right on the paragraph for the Register, where you can check whether or not you voted. If you want to make a line for me, I'll tell you what it's about.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u228	What does that have to do with anything? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u229	Please, colleagues, don't call.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u230	May I continue?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u231	Keep going, I'm not interrupting, I'm listening very carefully, I'm not interrupting.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u232	Of course, but they're interrupting me from somewhere else. Whatever. So here's the thing. He goes to a conscientious Bulgarian citizen to vote, exercises his right to vote, and when he comes out asks a member of the session committee: "And did my wife vote?".. The member of the committee check and says: "Yes, she voted two hours ago."................................................................... and this............. and this..................... and says.......................................................................................................................... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Not that this incident has not happened before and will not happen in any other election, but if there is one such register, anyone could examine or obtain information about whether his deceased relative has not reported a voice or who is a friend or relative abroad or if he himself has exercised the right to vote on his behalf. I don't know what I said so outrageously, but we are suggesting that this is not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u233	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. A line? You have the floor for a line, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u234	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Gokov, from what you're saying, either you've never been in a section or you don't know how the vote works. First, it shall be submitted to the Chair of the ID card. With your I.D., he's looking at the list of whether or not you're... [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] In what century? I've made choices, and you've never been in a section, sir. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Are you in the Women's Market? Where are you?]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u235	Mr. Nikolov, turn around nicely. VLADISLAV NIKOLOV: The Commission consists of members of all parties, so you can't say that someone has died and you once see on the list that it appears there.. Your wife, or you want, most likely, to keep track of your wife whether she voted, this is another topic, yes, I understand, but she must be alive. With what you're saying, you're making an impression, either you read it as a joke somewhere, or you're trying to fool people who never voted. This, I'm telling you most responsible, I've had elections since 2007, so far I've been involved, it can't happen! It can't happen! When there are people from different parties, you know that when a person dies, the ID is taken and returned. How come the number was written down one time and signed it and who signed it in? Then you might ask the chairman who signed off on this guy who died, the list wasn't handed over to the D.A., and he didn't do his job, how did this thing happen? I'm telling you that what you're giving as some thesis or developing here from the stands cannot happen, you're just trying to simulate and protect some proposal in this part, thus putting it out by you, which can't happen. There may be other probabilities and possibilities, but this is exactly how someone died being signed and voted is almost impossible. The entire committee must have been bribed. The entire committee of all parties, someone bribed them so that this man could vote, which is impossible for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u236	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Another line? You have the floor for the second line, dear Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u237	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I fully support the proposal put forward by our parliamentary group and I would invite opponents to pull out the GRA website and show me where the Public Register is. Dear colleagues, on the site of GRAO there are tables with the population. Try now, each and every one of you, while we're having this debate, to write down your number and see that you won't be able to see each other anywhere. There's no public register right now. There may be somewhere on a book, a register, in the City itself, but in the Public Register, Bulgarian citizens may be able to see and comply with the Law on protected information or classified, there is none. And don't be ironic here, Mr. Gokov. It's too dangerous. I've heard miracles with the Election Code. Have you ever heard of printing IDs with persons living abroad? [[GERB lines.]] And who needs to be checked? The Ministry of Interior needs to be checked, right? [[GERB lines.]] So all that is Bulgarian and not only Bulgarian invention...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u238	Mrs. Yankova, please stick to the content of the line as such.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u239	...all this when people vote several times. Mr. Gokov, you're absolutely right, you've made the opposition nervous, but with my reply, I support his proposal and I insist on public... [[GERB lines.]] And if one of you has the dignity to bring one of you, to open the GRA and show the register where it is, he'll convince me! Take out the Grand registry and show it. [[(Applause and cheering by]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u240	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Third line you have the floor, dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Gokov, I am taking this line, prompted by your speech from the stands you have made in connection with your proposal. Fairy tales a woman said on the market are at least unfounded from the stand of the National Assembly. Negotiate Mrs. Yankova also aroused a thesis. Gentlemen and ladies of the opposition, you have participating members of your political power in all elections. Please don't belittle their work. Each political power has representatives in the sectary electoral commission. When there are such, even suggestions, because I accept this as an suggestion, the example which Mr. Gokov gave, I am sure it is not from a real event and the holding of the elections, but then there are bodies to refer to. Do not belittle the work of the members of your sectional election committees, because here we are entering a huge topic. By trying to protect your thesis, you are trying to fool the Bulgarian citizens that almost the elections are being held by some people or others. No, the elections are held by seven people in the sectary election committee, which are of all political powers. Everyone can defend their cause, thesis and so on and this is exactly the principle of conducting fair elections, because then all these people sign this protocol, which is accessible, visible, published, scanned on the CEC website. That is why my colleague's previous line, which he made, is absolutely correct and appropriate to you. You can't set an example, I stress it again. "A woman said in the market. Show him where this is happening, tell me which sectional election committee, let's see which members of your BSP who are involved in these elections were involved in this manipulation, which you claim. Otherwise, everything else is a suggestion that is not subject to the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u242	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. A hole, dear Mr. Gokov, and a procedure, dear Mr. Kirilov, after the duvet.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, if there are so many lines, then there's something bothering you, and what I've said is true. [[GERB lines.]] Mr. Nikolov, I don't know how much you participated in elections and who stepped in a section and who hasn't stepped in, but I have been from 1990 until my first candidacy for municipal councillor, a committee member, committee chairman, Vice-President of the Commission. [[GERB lines.]] From 1990 to now, Mr. Nikolov! So I know the election process very well. I don't know how you've been involved all along in all the committees after you've been a candidate for something, but that's another matter. I don't know what you're afraid of. If you say there are no such violations as I quote and are impossible, why shouldn't that register be there? What's your problem? What's more, it's in the Law and it's there. I don't understand what's bothering you? You, when you say that these things are impossible to happen, Mr. Nikolov, Mr. Ivanov, are you a guarantor of this because people think otherwise?! I told you in the beginning that every nine out of ten people believe that in Bulgaria the electoral process is accompanied by electoral manipulations, or you don't walk among the people, but you sit here and talk to each other without understanding what it is about in people. [[GERB lines.]] Mrs. Yankova, I thank you for paying attention to a problem that I am aware of, that fake IDs are being printed, and don't tell me there are no such things, because people have found that you even fake passports give away, let alone IDs to talk about.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u244	Don't stray, Mr. Gokov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u245	For example, what does this one do when everything is predestined or, as they say, observe all seven people, or nine people, or eleven, as the number of committees? What do these people do if they come with such a printed fake map of a person who died and a person who is abroad? That's not what you're telling me. Last question: what is wrong with a person who has doubts as to whether someone has voted on his behalf because he does not wish to vote, to check whether someone has exercised the right to vote on his behalf and to seek his rights in this way from the members of the sectional committees? Don't you think that we will bring a little more responsibility to the members of the sectional committees, to those who go there just for the pay and not to seek some justice and participate in the electoral process in a normal way? You're saying I'm fooling people with that statement. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I don't know if I'm fooling people because now I'm speaking from the stands. Before that, I told you that people are convinced that there are such anomalies...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u246	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u247	Whatever you say from now on, if you don't accept this text, you go into...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u248	Finish your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u249	...the hypothesis that you're looking for election fraud.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u250	Thank you. You have the floor of procedure, dear Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u251	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is as follows. It is a request, first of all, to postpone the vote on this paragraph, second of all, to declare a recess for a recess for a half hour, during which I am making a proposal to convene an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs with the following arguments, honourable Members. If we argue on this issue and this debate lasts so long, I will not go back to the debate from yesterday, but in the second point of Cornelia Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs, that is, a verification mechanism and this mechanism we applied it in the Law on the direct participation of citizens in government and local authorities. We have such a development to check the signatures. This mode will not be able to directly implant it to replace the laconic and irrelevant system of t. 9a, but we will also call on the experts from the Directorate of Employment to make in an additional report a new proposal for a mechanism to verify the lists. I repeat: and now there is an opportunity to check the voter I have voted, or I have not voted, but unfortunately, in the short time we will not be able to call the Director of the Gravity, who has useful knowledge. My proposal is as follows, a half hour's rest, an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs in Hall "West" for an additional report on this issue, plus, I announce, I will also raise the issue of expanding the use of machines.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u252	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Colleagues, I will put to the vote the first proposal to postpone the vote. [[Heckling]] I'm adjourned for 30 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u253	Colleagues, please take your seats! Let's get to work. We continue with the debate on the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. In the manner of conduct, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u254	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask you and my colleagues here: Do you even know where we are right now? [[Replys from "United Patriarchs: "No, no! "]] I guess you don't know! Let me tell you: in the National Assembly, which, Mr. President, is working under the rules of the Rules of Procedure. However, they for GERB are not respected at all, they for GERB have absolutely no significance. Can we interrupt plenary, call the Legal Committee, throw out some texts that are supposedly discussed and are now being discussed again without being absolutely familiar with them, without being able to react, without just throwing themselves away, and we now need to re-examine them, and we need to make an informed decision, and accept them upstairs in the Legal Commission for five minutes? Sorry, this is not normal in a parliamentary republic, but obviously, we are not a parliamentary republic, but we are something far beyond that. All the texts that you are proposing here and our proposal of the Parliamentary Group have been discussed, discussed now and the Chair of the Legal Committee...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u255	Mr. Popov...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u256	He wants to discuss something quite different. Something that was once discussed, on the day of...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u257	You were right to start yelling at me. Back to me, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u258	That's right. I urge you not to allow at all these proposals, which were made above the Legal Commission, because they are in absolute conflict with the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly and you as President should monitor its implementation. Because this is how confidence in parliamentaryism and parliament in the Republic of Bulgaria is destroyed. Because rules mean absolutely nothing to you. With a view to imposing this dictatorship in both the sectional election committees and the CEC at all in the electoral process, because you are afraid of what will happen in these elections. Can parliamentary elections come, you make arrangements here all day, you want to remove the quotas of those who are European...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u259	Mr. Popov, thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u260	...representations in the European Parliament. What kind of country do you live in?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u261	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. We continue with the speeches. You're welcome, Mr. Svilensky. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u262	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Chairman, you have been given a procedure in the manner of conduct, a remark in the way in which the National Assembly works. Mrs. Karayancheva very carefully...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u263	Not to her, to me, dear Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u264	Yeah, yeah, I'm talking to you... she's sitting in the front row, because she might be ashamed to have this meeting. Tell me, what procedure are we in right now on the review of the Legal Committee Report? This, by the way, is not the first time this Legal Commission has happened with President Daniel Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u265	Back to me, Mr. Svilensky, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u266	Always first vote, second vote, now third vote, say, Mr. Chairman, how do we make decisions in this National Assembly, how do we want these laws and electoral codes to be implemented by Bulgarian citizens? How would we want the Central Election Commission to have authority, the MPs, the elected consequence of these elections? Does anyone know what we're doing in this room? [[(Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Noise and lines.)]] There are rules, once again I say, which Mr Kirilov probably knows very well, which has been adopted by this National Assembly and it is a law in the state. And you want to show again and, by the way, this only happens when you are sitting, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u267	Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u268	It never happens when she leads Mrs Karayancheva, for example. I don't know why they put you on...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u269	They don't put me in, so I guess we have mutual sympathy with your group, so that's how it works.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u270	With our group you have sympathies. The important thing is to have sympathy with Bulgarian citizens, to respect them, because they have sent us here and we must defend the laws, at least those we accept. And when the Rules of Procedure have adopted it, and it says how laws are passed, how many readings, how many committees, how long the report can be submitted to the committee, let us observe at least these things. Tell me, do you feel...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u271	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilenski, for your time!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u272	...are you familiar with what you're going to vote on in a moment? I ask you to take an attitude both in the previous procedure and in mine, because this is a procedure in the manner of conduct...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u273	It's a right, not an obligation. Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u274	...to take an attitude. Of course, but you have sympathy for our group, don't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u275	Of course, I've expressed them many times. You're welcome, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u276	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Members... I am not only entitled to address the President. And we are here by the will of the Bulgarian voters, but they did not send us here to listen to nonsense and to disobey the law with the sentence: you do not obey the law! And that is why I call, Mr President, when once again someone here tries to make statements in the form of a rude violation of our Rules, saying that we must follow the Rules, take their word and stop their microphone. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u277	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Procedure in the manner of conduct, come in. [[Replications between MPs from BSP for Bulgaria and Veselin Mareshki.]] Please, Mr. Mareshki. Go on, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u278	Dear Mr. Chairman, I appeal to you in the manner of conduct. Is that a third report right now? What is this, Mr. Mareshki? Someone is me and I am a member of the Legal Commission. This is the Rules of Procedure, and I want you or the President to have it and you to read on the basis of which point this decision is proposed. Get up and tell me that someone claims to break the rules, we're not someone and we have faces. We got up a little while ago from the Legal Committee and left because after the total insanity at 00:30 to look at the second text...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u279	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u280	Mr. Mareshki... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u281	That's the third one. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, The legislative process is guided by our leadership of the National Assembly and I therefore address it. The Legal Commission whether it consists, what it presents, which text will be reported shall be decided by the management by you, Mr President, and by you, Mr Vice-President. So, angro to say that someone is breaking... At the moment, there is a drastic violation of the law, a violation of the entire right, and this is another moment when we are slowly and consistently moving towards tyranny. [[Comments from GERB. Communicating: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u282	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u283	Colleagues, please remain calm.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u284	Provide the point in the Rules of Procedure on the basis of which we work there is none. What is this thing right now? What reading are we at? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u285	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. The presentation of the Report of the Legal Committee is carried out by the President of the Commission, I do not have in this case...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u286	Where's the report?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u287	Mr. Kirilov will answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u288	In accordance with procedure Report to the Chair. Dear Mr. President, since you have allowed at least four [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Three. "]] It seems to me that three speeches in a procedure related to the interruption, I report to your attention the following circumstances: we have had an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs. We voted on all four issues that were discussed. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "When?"]] The report will be ready in 15 minutes. I will now tell you what we are doing, as the representatives of the Bulgarian BSP (BSP) have left the Commission, obviously, Mr. President, and you should also know what we are doing. They did not participate in the debate on a point first on the proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs for changes in art. 57, para. 1, t. 9 and 9a. Although my colleagues left, I made an offer that came from the Director of the Directorate of Grao and we discussed... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u289	We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u290	There's nothing to explain.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u291	No, I mean that despite the vote, your proposal was not supported in any way in the discussion by the Legal Committee, so in the Report additionally, here I specify for Mr. Milkov that according to both parliamentary practice and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in an extraordinary session we have the right [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] We have the right to make an additional report, as Mr. Svilenski well knows that the Transport Commission often falls into this practice... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u292	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u293	...and states there's an additional report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u294	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u295	We can, Mr. Chairman, proceed to discussion, that is, to continue the discussion from where I left off. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u296	Thank you. Procedure, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u297	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. You should have recalled, and perhaps it is not too late to do so to the MPs who object to the fact that there is an additional report, against the fact that it is not ready, and so on, a further meeting was held. First, that conducting additional extraordinary meetings of committees, when problems arise in the course of second reading, are practice in the work of the Bulgarian Parliament, with this repeated practice. Secondly, when the report is not ready, the point to which disputes relate and to which the additional report is postponed and it is seen when the report is ready, as is the extraordinary meeting of points on which disputes have been and are postponed, so there is nothing urgent. I ask you very much not to allow hysteria, we will not work only three days on procedural matters, especially when they do not have grounds. When they do, it's something else. The report, when it is ready, will be dealt with accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u298	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mrs. Iankova, according to procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u299	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament! Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the way of the organization and activity of the National Assembly. The Legal Committee may have the reports, but we members have nothing in front of us. It's 13.40, you said in 15 minutes we'll have an opportunity to have something in our hands in working mode. Since I see tense members of the Legal Commission due to physical exhaustion and inability to work, it is 13.55 pm in 15 minutes to avoid rape and not to get into an unpleasant situation, I suggest that we postpone today's view of the amendment and the amendment of the Bill. [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, that. Dear colleagues, what does the election mean? Trust and good rules. The confidence of the citizens right now to hysterize it with distorted rules, this will not speak well for us Members of Parliament. Let's call this meeting off! Let the Legal Committee go to sleep, then make a normal report for a second reading, if there's anything else she can offer us. This is not useful for the trust of Bulgarian citizens and for the Election Code itself that we are looking at. I am proposing, Mr President, that the meeting be terminated in the election code part, while we have opportunities to be with good documents, with good reports that we can vote on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u300	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Before I give you the floor, I'll put to the vote the procedural...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u301	Let's put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dora Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u302	Mr. Ivanov, okay. I'll do it. This is my intention to vote on Mrs. Yankova's procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u303	There's a procedure before that.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u304	Yes, it is, it is, let me say something. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Dora Yankova. While we're waiting for a procedural proposal Mr. Ivanov, then Mr.... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm not gonna agree with you here because I know who I saw before. Vote 169 MPs: 49, against 89, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] Just a re-voting? [[The National Representative Philip Popov wants the floor.]] Please, short and clear, no explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u305	Dear Mr. Chairman, I have to motivate myself first why I want a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u306	It is not necessary in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Dear Mr Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u307	You can check the transcript if I personally managed to vote because I failed to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u308	Okay, I'll re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u309	That's why I'm asking for a re-vote...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u310	I'll do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u311	...and before the re-vote, I want a name check. Thank you, on behalf of a parliamentary group. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u312	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u313	Please take your seats! Adlen Shukri Shevked - here Albena Vladimirova Naydenova - here [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria (BSP for Bulgaria))]] Alexander Dimitrov Panov - absent Alexander Ivanov Matsurev - here Alexander Koychev Ivanov - here Alexander Mairov Siddy - here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov - here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Tihomirov Simov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Angel Iliev Isaev - absent Andon Dimov Donchev - here Andrian Ivanov Raykov - here Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Konstantinov Kutev - absent Asya Atanasova Peeva - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov - absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Bogdan Emilov Botsev - here Boris Vangelov Borisov - here Boris Petkov Kirchev - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Ivanov Borisov - here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva - absent Burhan Ilyazov Abase - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - absent Valentin Georgiev Lambev - absent Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Mirchov Milushev - here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - here Vasil Tsvetkov - here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov - absent Velislava Ivanova Krasteva - here Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova - here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva - absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - here Veska Marinova Nencheva - here Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Vladimir Slavchev Valev - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov - absent Georgi Georgiev Stoilov - here Georgi Dimitrov Andreev - absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov - absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev - here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov - absent Georgi Kolev Kolev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Tenev Stankov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniel Petkov Yordanov - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - absent Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - here Desislava Angelova Todorova - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - absent Desislava Jekova Taneva - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov - here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Dimova Sawateva - here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glavchev - absent Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - absent Donka Dimova Simeonova - absent Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dora Stoyanova Hristova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Elena Nikolova Yoncheva - absent Elena Stefanova Axieva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Emil Marinov Hristov - here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev - here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - here Errol Osman Mehmed - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov - absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - absent Ivan Kirov Genov - absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - here Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - here Ivo Angelov Hristov - absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva - here Ilian Angelov Timchev - absent Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - here Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov - absent Ihsan Halil Hakke - here Yordan Apostolicov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - here Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov - absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - here Kalin Nikolov Popovski - absent Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - absent Konstantin Veselinov Popov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kristina Maximova Sidorova - absent Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - absent Krastina Nikolova Taskova - here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - absent Lilyana Pavlova - absent Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev - absent Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova - absent Maria Yordanova Ilieva - here Martin Vladimirov Tinchev - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - absent Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov - absent Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov - absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer - here Nikola Iliev Dinkov - absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov - absent Nikolay Dimitrov Penev - absent Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov - absent Nikolay Krastev Boshkov - absent Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov - here Nona Krasteva Yotova - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov - here Pencho Plamenov Milkov - absent Petar Boykov Vitanov - absent Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Peter Hristov Petrov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Plamen Trifonov Hristov - here Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Radoslava Plamen Chekanska - here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev - here Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - here Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Nikolov Georgiev - absent Rumen Petrov Genov - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - absent Sevim Ismail Ali - here Sergey Manushov Kichikov - here Simeon Georgiev Naydenov - absent Simeon Christov Simeonov - here Slavi Dichev Netzov - here Slavcho Georgiev Velkov - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - absent Snezana Georgieva Dukova - absent Spas Georgiev Gurnevski - here Save Yanev Panchev - here Stanislav Ivanov Vladimirov - absent Stanislav Ivanov Popov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova - here Stefan Apostolicov - here Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - absent Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Tanner Mehmed Ali - absent There's a..................................................................................... We're moving on to re-voting the procedure. They voted 113 MPs: 10, against 85, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Ivanov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u314	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedure for extending the working hours of today's sitting until the end of the debates and votes on the envisaged points first and second for today's sitting: Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code and Draft decision opening a public procedure under art. 47, para. 1 of the Election Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u315	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Inverse offer please come back for a proposal, Mr. Genov. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Reverse procedure has the right to do Mr. Genov. [[Noise, lines, cheers by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u316	Guys, calm down! Don't be nervous!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u317	Time's running out, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u318	Madam President, I have a counterproposal. You're very concerned about the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u319	For your time you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u320	I have a reverse proposal for point 2 to become point 1, which you propose, and point 1 to become point 2. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u321	Colleagues, please be quiet! I put to the vote Mr. Ivanov's proposal to extend working hours. [[National Representative Georgi Svilenski wants the floor for a declaration on behalf of a group.]] I'll give you the floor, let's finish the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u322	It's a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u323	That was a reverse offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u324	That was an offer to change the dots.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u325	Mr. Popov, that was a reverse offer. [[Strong noise, lines and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I put to the vote, first, Mr. Ivanov's proposal. [[National Representative Georgi Svilenski wants the floor for a reverse proposal.]] Mr. Genov made a counteroffer. Colleagues, we are voting on Mr. Ivanov's proposal. Vote 159 MPs: 115, against 40, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Svilenski. You can make another offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u326	Madam President, we are currently in a re-voting procedure and I cannot make another proposal. You did not give back the BSP Group's position that violates the Rules of Procedure. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Mr. Genov suggested that point 1 should become point 2, and did not say that he was against this proposal and you did not give the floor to the parliamentary group to make a reverse proposal. I don't know why you want to break the rules all the time. Tell me what prevents you from giving the floor back, putting it to the vote, and then Mr. Genov's proposal to take place between the first and second votes? I don't understand why today the Presidency, in charge of Mr. Mareshki, are you constantly trying to violate the regulations and inform the BSP that it violates the regulations?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u327	Mr. Svilensky!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u328	I don't understand why you're doing this.! My proposal is currently to re-vote Mr. Stanislav Ivanov's proposal, as I could not vote, not knowing what you are putting to the vote. Within five minutes, you couldn't explain what was happening. Please re-vote in the next few minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u329	Of course, Mr. Svilensky, I'm giving you a re-voting procedure. You must have misunderstood, so now you'll understand the situation. Please, re-election mode, and then we'll explain to Mr. Genov exactly what he did as an offer. [[GERB lines.]] Mr. Genov's proposal was not a reverse procedure, it was a whole new proposal. You came with an offer of reverse procedure. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] We vote. Vote 164 MPs: 115, against 48, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Let's move on, guys. You're welcome, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u330	Madam President, in the manner of conduct. You shouldn't have accepted Mr. Genov's offer because it was wrong. When a debate is under way on one point, no change of order of points can be offered. The accurate and precise proposal is: please be put to the vote to end the debate on this point and then rearrange the points, so you may consider that this proposal has not been made. However, you should have done this.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u331	That's how I read it, Mr. Tsonev, and that's why I didn't put it to the vote. It was claimed as a reverse proposal, a reverse procedure. [[The National Representative Manol Genov wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]] The way you're leading it? You have no grounds. Do you have a point for me? You have no reason to comment on me because you were incorrect.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u332	I have reason, Madam President, because I have dealt with your functions to appease the House and colleagues. So, I admit, I was wrong, I couldn't formulate the proposal properly. So I take the moment to do it again the way Mr. Tsonev gave his advice, for which I thank him. Please formulate the proposal correctly. [[Laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u333	I can't put it into words. You're going to formulate it. [[Radio.]] Mr. Genov, this is not serious and I'm not going to make it! [[Loud noise, lines, excitement. People's representative Philip Popov wants the floor.]] Mr. Popov, let's be serious! What you are saying from the parliamentary platform is not serious. Please, let's be serious and get back to procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u334	That's right, absolutely serious, Madam President! You said to continue with the second reading. There's no way we can continue the second reading when we don't have a report. None of the colleagues have a report to themselves at the Legal Commission. What the Legal Commission did upstairs was not editorial amendments, dear Mr. Tsonev. These are all new texts and the Rules of Procedure had to be published on the Legal Committee's website one day after the deadline for proposals expired. They haven't been published. The purpose of this publication is precisely to get acquainted with the people, colleagues with these proposals. None of the colleagues currently have the report for second reading. There's no way we can move on. Therefore, my colleague Manol Genov proposed that we end the debate on the first point of today's programme and move on to the second point. At least give out the reports, if nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u335	Mr. Popov, we are in the second reading procedure of the Report. We move on to the following points, and after the report comes, we will return to that point. Here you go, Mrs. Alexandrova. Let's move on. While we wait for the additional report to come, we will continue with the other members of the second reading of the Election Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u336	Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs: screated §...: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 1 in t. The 21 comma after the word "Bulgaria" is replaced by the Union "y" and the words "y" in the ballots of the parties and coalitions in elections for municipal councilors and mayors are deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u337	Statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u338	We're pretending to be serious, aren't we?! We haven't seen the first proposal, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u339	We've put it off.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u340	We've put it off. We're waiting for the report, Mr. Zarkov. [[Noise and lines. A line from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Yes, of course, but we don't have the report right now. Once the report comes, we'll go back to this article. Statements on the proposal of Mr. Svilenski and a group of MPs? [[National Representative Tasco Ermenkov wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]] Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u341	Madam President, I'm just reminding you how we ended the National Assembly meeting before the break. We have concluded the meeting with the words: "I am announcing a half hour's rest and calling an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs. " In any of the expressions you have made, there was no statement from the management that we would end the debate on this point and that we should vote on this termination and then move on to the next.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u342	I understand, Mr. Ermenkov. Your remark is correct.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u343	Otherwise, you continue to prove what I told you this morning: how you treat the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u344	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov, for the remark. I accept it. We must continue the debates on the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Because now I've started leading, and I've missed this. We are continuing the debate on this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u345	On what point?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u346	Proposal for a new paragraph in art. 57, para. 1 "What there was a debate about and on which we ended the debate. The debate on this point is not over. Come on in for the debate. Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, to clarify things, because we clearly speak different languages. Explain exactly the situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u347	Mrs. Chairman! That's why I refrain from taking the floor. I tried a report to the President when he presided over the Vice-President. I explained that at the Commission's extraordinary meeting, we discussed Cornelia Nino's proposal, which is also on the main report, and the additional report is not accepted. This has nothing to do with the resistance and non-participation of BSP members in the extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs. I have clarified that we have nevertheless discussed this proposal in good faith. We have not found a solution, and for this reason we have two options: one option is to repeat the debates by the Legal Committee here and to complete the vote, the other option, and I will advise you to do so - the second option is to postpone the vote on this proposal, and, again, I say, in the report that I will sign, on this proposal, we have no support from the Commission: 10 votes were against it, without the vote on the proposal and abstained. There were no colleagues from BSP and coalition. As you say, the third option is to end the debate if no one wants to speak more, because we were comprehensive in the Commission, although the sitting was extraordinary, and to proceed to the vote. I am making a procedural proposal to postpone the vote on the proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, and when we resume the debate, if we have a discussion, I will state in detail why it cannot be supported and I will vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u348	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u349	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Kirilov, honourable colleagues! You suggested we move on to a vote, didn't you? What did you propose?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u350	You weren't listening, Mr. Svilensky!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u351	No, I was listening. We are currently in a procedure, in the hypothesis of discussing the proposal. You must either suspend the discussions...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u352	He stopped them.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u353	No, he wants to continue the discussions. I know what I want. That's exactly what you suggested: three things. We are currently in the midst of a discussion on the submitted report, which, from 9:30 p.m., stands us on the banks. That's what we're discussing. Tell me, how are we going to change the two reports at 2:10 and start discussing it, in the middle we are going to start discussing the second report?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u354	I said this report will be submitted further.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u355	Mr. Kirilov, come and explain from here what we must do.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u356	How many times do you want him to explain it?! I won't give the floor to Mr. Kirilov anymore.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u357	There is currently a procedure to discuss the proposal under art. 57 and that needs to be discussed right now. It doesn't matter what meetings you held in the break, what you agreed on, what you agreed on. These are your internal coalition agreements. [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u358	Mr. Svilensky, do we have a suggestion from you to continue the debate? [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] I said, "Let's continue the debate." Here, you have the floor. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Go ahead, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u359	Madam President, in the previous procedure, I have explained to you what is the order in which we must move, provided that there is an interruption in the meeting, calling an extraordinary meeting of the Commission, drawing up a new report. And that order is: it had to be done, and I am now making this proposal procedurally to postpone the debates and voting on the proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs concerning the creation of a new paragraph, which concerns art. 57 and so on. Postpone until the additional report is submitted. When the additional report comes in and the MPs get acquainted, we start the debate again and then the vote. My procedure is to postpone debates and vote on this paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u360	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. I'm voting on Mr. Tsonev's proposal. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I put to the vote Mr. Tsonev's proposal what was my proposal, and therefore we continued to read with Mr. Svilenski's proposal. I'm putting it to the vote right now. I would ask you, fellow Members, to be more careful what is said by the parliamentary tribune. 135 MPs voted: 98 against 36, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. As Mrs. Alexandrova read the proposal of Mr. Svilenski and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support, we continue with the debates on this new paragraph that the MPs propose. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. They voted 133 MPs: for 48, against 55, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u361	Proposal by the National Representative Anna Alexandrova for the creation of a new § 2. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Emil Dimitrov in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58, para. 1 after the words the decisions of the Central Election Commission are added under art. 57, para. 1, t. 5, 6, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, 17, 22, 23, 25, 26, 26a, 29, 30, 33, 34 and 45
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u362	Statements, coworkers? Mr. Milkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u363	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Many of the proposals made between first and second readings by colleague Alexandrova, in my opinion, fall into a hypothesis of our Rules, namely: proposals that contradict the principles and scope of a bill adopted at first reading, are not considered and are not voted on. An undisputed example is this text. Nowhere in the first reading of the Draft Law has the National Assembly ruled to restrict the possibility of appeal the acts of the Central Election Commission. Currently, there is a general possibility in the current Law that the acts of the Central Election Commission are subject to appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court. What are we seeing right now? A proposal between the first and second readings of the colleague, who, out of 48 points, has selected 11 acts of the Central Election Commission and says: it will be possible to appeal on these 11. And the more interesting thing happened yesterday at the Legal Commission. First of all, there's no motive why these 11? But yesterday at the Legal Committee, we witnessed what colleague Bozhankov said. Sitting there, looking and speaking, the arguments of the colleagues who expanded from 11 to 18 to be these points were: yes, this is important, it is not important. Colleagues, it's about the legitimacy of every single choice of how people perceive it. The opportunity to appeal an act of the Central Election Commission and get justice from the Supreme Administrative Court legitimizes the elections or not. When you from 48 points limit people's ability to challenge to 11 or 18 respectively, it does not in any way help people to perceive us as legitimate MPs and you as legitimate rulers. We are firmly opposed to this text and, again, Mr President, this text is contrary to the principles and scope of the bill adopted at first reading. Who's responsible for this?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u364	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I will put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 2 with a text according to the Commission proposal. Vote 112 MPs: for 70, against 42, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u365	................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In para. 2 the words and the parties and coalitions which have been selected with their candidate lists members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Bulgaria, but are not parliamentary represented. 2. In para. 3 the words the parties and coalitions under para. The parties and coalitions are replaced by the parties represented in parallel. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 1 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u366	Paragraph 1 by importer?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u367	By importer, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u368	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 1 by importer to be rejected. They voted 111 MPs: 109, against 1, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u369	..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 61 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 5 is finally added to no less than one member of each parliamentary party or coalition. 2. Alinei 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 are canceled. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 2 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u370	Statements? Mr. Kirilov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u371	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First, I shall start with a proposal under the procedure for separate voting on item. 1 et c. 2 of § 2 With regard to the proposal under point (a) of Article 3 (1) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that there is a need for the Commission to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1, I support this proposal and believe that indeed every parliamentary party represented, that is, a party that has crossed the 4-percent limit in the elections for MPs in the Bulgarian Parliament, should be able to have at least one member in the electoral committees. I am expressing the reserve in terms of t. 2 which is regarding the representation in the electoral committees, here specifically in this provision of the regional electoral committees, representatives of these parties and coalitions that have been elected with their candidate lists members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria. Indeed, in view of the specific situation before the forthcoming elections for representatives in the European Parliament, it is not appropriate to discuss this issue. I stress otherwise that I am in favour of the proposal of my colleagues from the Political Party. 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u372	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u373	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, is the Central Election Commission not relevant to the European elections, so that there are no representatives of parties who have representatives in the European Parliament to have the right to have a representative in this committee? Or because you have the need to look for additional arrangements to pass some texts, do you compromise with yourself in order to pass texts that you are convinced yourself are incorrect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u374	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Any other lines? I won't. A hole? You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u375	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Taskov! [[Noise, lines and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u376	Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u377	Ermenkov. [[Reply: "Risa! "]] That's what I found out about the shirt. I'll make up for your mistake in the family. But, unfortunately, you still didn't understand, you repeated what I said. First of all, it's not about the CEC, it's the norm for regional election committees. Secondly, in the regional committees, I said for this reason I regret that I cannot support the proposal of my colleagues from the Vola, but it is not appropriate to exclude paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 so that representatives of parties who have won the European elections have such representatives, i.e. to participate in the regional election committees. I and my colleagues from our parliamentary group yesterday in the vote in the Legal Committee supported fully the proposal of our colleagues from Volja. 1. This is: The smallest parliamentary group in the Bulgarian Parliament to be entitled to at least one member in this case here in the Regional Election Committees.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u378	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm going to take a split vote on this. 1 et c. 2 of § 2. I'm voting on it. 1 of § 2. They voted 145 MPs: for 92, against 31, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. And now I'm going to do t. 2 voting under the same § 2. Vote 138 MPs: 28 against 29, abstention 81. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u379	Proposal from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MPs Danail Kirilov and Christian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 70 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 5. If a decision on rejection is repealed, the Regional Election Commission shall issue a new decision which shall adopt by a majority more than half of its members. 2. Previously on AMC's... 5 " 9" became respectively. 6.. 10.... 10.............................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u380	Statements, coworkers? Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u381	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am asking the Commission a question that has voted on the sentence "When the necessary majority is missing to adopt a decision, there is a decision on rejection that is subject to appeal under the Code. I'm asking you because that's an interesting sentence. If this is what you have supported in principle, then you are introducing to the Bulgarian law in addition to what we have been fighting for for for a long time for the silent consent, you are currently introducing the new principle - a silent refusal. I'm very interested in how you do this thing when you agree in general. Perhaps you should have written in the report that you generally accept, but you do not agree with your one sentence, because otherwise it gets very interesting. You have the right as the Commission to do so. Otherwise, what you are proposing is that when there is no majority for a decision to be adopted, there is a decision to reject, which is subject to appeal under the Code, this means that when there is no majority, the decision is necessarily a rejection, and you agree with that in principle. Thank you, you are heroes in Bulgarian law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u382	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Ermenkov, I do not find the sentence you quoted in the text proposed by the Commission. [[Definitions.]] Any other speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 3 with a text according to the Commission proposal. They voted 132 MPs: 91, against 34, abstention 7. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u383	A proposal from the MP Gergana Stefanova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal to create a new paragraph: 72, p. 27 after the words "book and materials" the video recordings under Art. 27 shall be added. 219, para. 2 recorded in a technical medium
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u384	Statements? I can't see. I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Gergana Stefanova and a group of MPs. They voted 134 MPs: 33, against 33, abstention 68. It's not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u385	Proposal from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Anna Alexandrova under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 73 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 words which are subject to appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court shall be deleted and sentences shall be created second and third: the decision of the Regional Election Commission, confirmed by a decision of the Central Election Commission, shall be subject to appeal under Article. 98, para. 2 of the Administrative Procedure Code before a three-member Chamber of the Administrative Court at the location of the regional electoral commission concerned. In other cases, the decision of the Central Election Commission is appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court. 2. In para. 2 the words "the Supreme Administrative Court" shall be replaced by "the Court of Justice concerned."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u386	Statements? You have the floor to speak, dear Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u387	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Our objections in this text relate to the fact that holding elections is a process of national importance, the most important for the whole democratic process. And when we talk about such important matters, naturally, the Supreme Court must consider them. They're not so many. His replacement with the relevant court is a risk for us. We have concerns and doubts about no acquaintances and any ties in the smaller areas to cast doubt on the electoral process. We believe the Supreme Administrative Court should remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u388	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u389	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In our opinion, this text was proposed again between first and second readings. I'm making the agreement that this is unacceptable by our Rules of Procedure. We are talking about elections of MPs. The Regional Election Commission has a solution. It is contested, but, let's say, the Central Election Commission confirms it. The complaint against this so far goes to the Supreme Administrative Court. Why? Because the National Assembly is a central body, meeting in Sofia and although the elections are held on the ground, this MP is a member of this National Assembly, which is sitting here. Therefore, it is logical for the Supreme Administrative Court to examine the complaints in relation to these disputes. Contrary to this, it is currently proposed that when the Central Election Commission confirmed the RIK's decision, we bring it back to the region which created in the challenging belief that something is wrong. I do not claim that it is wrong or not there is a complaint. And we are returning the decision to rule back in the region that has created a dispute. And we come back to the legitimacy of power, and how would people who appeal for a certain choice or decision of the RIK adopt a decision of the Supreme Administrative Court again say, it is a National Assembly, and what would be your legitimization? This is the court at the RIK site that created the dispute. Therefore, this text should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u390	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. - What's the line? You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u391	Mr. Chairman, my reply is as follows: I was surprised by the statement of colleague Milkov that in challenging the election of the MP, the dispute was brought before the administrative courts. In these disputes, counterpart Milkov should know that the appeal is before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria as well as the elections for President and Vice President. I am making it clear that these changes are the result of the overall reform that we have made in the Administrative Procedure Code. As with all other appeals, there is a case under the authority. We have a decision by the Municipal Election Commission or the RIK. This decision has been reviewed by the Central Election Commission. It is perfectly logical that his conviction should be a major body, i.e. at the level of the regional electoral committees and of the municipal electoral commission, i.e. in the area of action of the relevant administrative court. I stress and you certainly note that in these cases we have given special competence to small administrative courts, a special composition. We have, exceptionally, a staff of three administrative judges. I also point out that.. which rights have been revoked is the first instance judgment, i.e. the cassation of this judgment will still be in the Supreme Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u392	Mr. Popov, you had a line. You're giving up. Another line? I won't. Mr. Milkov, the dodger.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u393	I'll be very brief. With the amendments to the Administrative Procedure Code, we have introduced the defendant to appeal the acts on the authority's seat. So there's no way you're gonna be able to attribute your authorship to each other. This is a fundamental principle in general of administrative law. I thought I made myself clear. And is it correct and whether the legislators before us were wrong when they said that the dispute of the Regional Election Commission was the solution, although on the general administrative principles this decision must be challenged before the respective administrative court of law here is correct, but what is this? We are holding elections and the Regional Election Commission accepts a number of decisions in relation to them. In order to ensure the legitimacy of these elections and people to accept them, disputes that are not so many are resolved by the Supreme Administrative Court. I told you that by stopping this process at the moment, bringing them back to the region in which the dispute was created, you will lose people's faith that this choice is legitimate. This is my main argument, not that administrative judges are broken or that a priori should not be trusted. It's about people's attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u394	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. Any other speeches? I can't see. [[Reply by MP Desislava Taneva.]] Procedure? You have the floor for a procedure, dear Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u395	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Please, on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be extended by two weeks between the first and second reading of the adopted Water Act at first reading on 8 February 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u396	Thank you. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Desislava Taneva. They voted 118 MPs: 117 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We are continuing the debate. If not, we will call off the debate and move on to the vote. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 4 with a text, according to the Commission report. Vote 118 MPs: 76 against 32, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u397	Paragraph 3 "Instruction text'. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 3 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u398	Are there any speeches? I won't. Adherence to the Commission's proposal to reject § 3 of the Commission Report. They voted 111 MPs: 99, against 3, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u399	Paragraph 4 "Instruction text'. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 4 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u400	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u401	Madam President, honourable Members! With the same reasons that we voted in similar text a little earlier, I propose that the three points should be voted separately because I do not believe that if someone is trying to protect the interests of people who have a euro-stakeholder, there may be representatives in any committee, and a parliamentary party who has received the trust of the Bulgarian citizens does not have that right. I therefore propose that the three points be voted on separately. I call on you to support the point concerning the right of each Bulgarian parliamentary party to have at least one representative in the electoral committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u402	Am I to understand that you're proposing a separate vote? [[Reply from the National Representative Veselin Mareshki: "Yes. "]] Okay, thank you. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Are there any other statements? I won't. We're going to vote. I'm putting it to the vote, first, t. 1 of § 4, which is not supported by the Commission. [[Noise and lines.]] For those who have not been careful enough and have not understood, discussed and voted on § 4 in the Commission Report which has been presented. The Commission's proposal is not to support this text, and Mr Mareshki's proposal was for a split vote on the three points in the paragraph. We are currently voting on this. 1 of § 4 of the Commission's basic report. They voted 104 MPs: 75, against 10, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. Now we're voting on it. 2 on the Commission report. The Commission's proposal is not to support the proposal. 2. They voted 106 MPs: for 76, against 10, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. Now we're going to vote on it. 3.. a proposal for § 4. I recall that the Commission proposes not to support the text of the importer and that the whole paragraph be rejected, including that of the Commission. 3, which we are voting now on Mr. Mareshki's proposal for a separate vote. They voted 109 MPs: 34 against 22, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u403	Proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MPs Danail Kirilov and Christian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 85 the following 1. A new para is being created. 5. In the event of a rejection decision, the municipal electoral committee shall issue a new decision which shall adopt by a majority more than half of its members. 2. Previously on AMC's... 5 " 9" became respectively. 6.. 10.... 10.............................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u404	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 5. They voted 103 MPs: 77 against 26 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u405	Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs: screated § 4a: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is ..10. determine by lot the consecutive number of parties, coalitions and independent candidates in the ballot and announce them no later than 31 days before the election day; The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u406	Are there any speeches on the proposal of the MPs Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission? There are no speeches. We are voting on the proposal of the MPs Svilenski and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 100 MPs: 26, against 11, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u407	Proposal of the MP Gergana Stefanova and a group of MPs: screated §...: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 87, para. 1, t. 33 after the words "book and materials".. including the video recordings of art. 219, para. 2 recorded in a technical medium The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u408	Are there any speeches? I won't. Dear Members of Parliament, we are voting on the proposal of MP Gergana Stefanova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 28, against 18, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u409	A proposal from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova, which is generally supported by the Commission. Proposal by the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 88, para. 1 words which are subject to appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court shall be deleted and sentences shall be created second and third: the decision of the municipal electoral commission, confirmed by a decision of the Central Election Commission, shall be subject to appeal under Art. 98, para. 2 of the Administrative Procedure Code before a three-member Chamber of the Administrative Court at the location of the respective municipal electoral commission. In other cases, the decision of the Central Election Commission is appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u410	Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u411	My fellow Members, Madam President, I understand that the confusion is great, but this is not § 6. Remember, this should be § 7. Please see him again. Don't pass laws in this cacophony. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u412	Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u413	I ask you to The coworker's right. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u414	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 7 "renumbered." They voted 104 MPs: 81, against 23, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u415	The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 5 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u416	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 5 by importer. They voted 101 MPs: 94, against 3, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u417	According to § 6 an importer there is a proposal from the National Representative Gergana Stefanova and a group of MPs: In Paragraph 6, point 2 is added: "2." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 92. 7, 8 and 9 are cancelled. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 6 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u418	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. We are voting on the proposal from the MP Gergana Stefanova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: 44, against 4, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 6 by importer. They voted 103 MPs: 69 against 11, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u419	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I ask for a re-vote, as I have not been able to vote, and I also think that my fellow Members have failed to understand the proposal put to the vote so. You have put to the vote, as it is under the....... does not support the text of the importer and suggests that § 6 be rejected.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... My will on this vote, if I could vote in voting time, would be against it. I support the text of the importer for para. Article 6 92. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u420	You support the text of the importer and you're most likely proposing a re-vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u421	Yeah, because I didn't vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u422	Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u423	Madam President, I appeal to you with a procedure in the manner of conduct, because you have allowed Mr. Kirilov not to do a revoting procedure but to justify, although incomprehensible, his will. This will is reflected in the Report in one way. He said second, signaling to vote third. Of course, this is not your fault, but the error of the method of work, but do not allow it to abuse a procedure in which it simply had to say that it failed to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u424	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov, you're quite right. However, let us not assume that Mr. Kirilov's will is the will of the entire Commission. Therefore, since he is still arguing that he has failed to vote, I am questioning the Commission's proposal, which does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 6 of the Report be rejected. Voting mode. They voted 132 MPs: 45, against 59, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u425	Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: ##6a is created: ##6a: 6a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 95 the Union is replaced by a comma after the word "choice" and the end of the sentence is added to the sentence. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u426	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u427	Thank you, Madam President. I will base in a few words the proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is for the introduction of an educational value of the members of the sectional election committees. Centz has for the districts, for the municipal, of course, for the Central Election Commission and we believe that a minimum of such a cent, which may be the acquired secondary education, should also be for members of the sectional election committees. This is implied by the simple fact that these people count, write protocols, but also art. 100 of the Election Code provides for serious powers in implementing the Code and related regulations. It seems to me that the minimum requirement of secondary education is the minimum requirement for a person to understand this Code, even more so with the abusings that are happening to him today. We are quite logically proposing to introduce this minimum educational value for the members of sectional election committees.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u428	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines? There are no lines. Are there any other statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 124 MPs: 43, against 62 abstentions. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u429	Proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova for the creation of a new § 7, which has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 7 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u430	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal, which does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 7 of the Report be rejected. They voted 121 MPs: 117, against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u431	Paragraph 8 "Instruction text'. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 8 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u432	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for non-supporting the text of the importer and dropping § 8 on the Commission report. They voted 119 MPs: for 119, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u433	Paragraph 9 "Introduction text'. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 9 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u434	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u435	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I shall take the floor under § 9 in respect of art. 107, para. 5 to say that I support the text of the importer. In the vote in the Committee on Legal Affairs, a result was achieved:......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Until now, in the compositions of all other committees CEC, RIK and OIC, we have adopted this principle in relation to each parliamentary party and coalition. For this reason, I propose that we be consistent, in which case we follow this principle. I am going to vote against the Commission's decision, which I say again, was nine to nine.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u436	That was a statement. Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any lines to Mr. Kirilov's statement and position? [[Switching of lines between MPs from BSP for Bulgaria and MP Danail Kirilov.]] Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. We're going to vote. Mr. Kirilov, I ask you very much, anyway, we are going to vote, I think it is more important that you explain to the parliamentary group of GERB at the moment how to vote than to Mrs. Cornelia Ninova. I shall put the Commission's proposal to the vote. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 9 be rejected. They voted 127 MPs: 62, against 16, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u437	There is a proposal of the MP Gergana Stefanova and a group of MPs: A new paragraph is being created: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 108, para. 1, t. 6 after the words "book and materials" the video recordings under Art. 6 shall be added. 219, para. 2 recorded in a technical medium The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u438	We don't have that report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u439	This is the main report on the report given to you this morning on page 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u440	We last adopted the wording of § 9. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We rejected it, yes, but I wanted to say we voted it out. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u441	Yes, we voted on the Commission's proposal on the Commission report. Which parliamentary group voted how, this is the decision of the group itself. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u442	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I have not heard you guide me to which parliamentary group to explain, but I say this. Since the vote in this House rejects the Commission's proposal on the main text, you should put the main text to the vote to be adopted. [[(Replicates from "BSP for Bulgaria": ……]] You agree? You're in! This is my remark on this paragraph and on the previous one, when I also justified a different vote in view of the Commission's decision. Thank you. [[The National Representative Danail Kirilov and the President make clarifications aside from the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u443	Dear Members of Parliament, due to a change in the main report, I am referring to the report given this morning and to the rejection of proposals by the Commission, I will now put to the vote § 9 by importer on the report we are talking about. We are voting on § 9 by importer - the main text because the Commission's proposal for non-acceptance of the text was rejected. 135 MPs voted: 90 against 41, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u444	This is also true for § 6 "Contributor text."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u445	We also vote on § 6 by the text of an importer, and then we will go back to the debates on Mrs. Gergana Stefanova's proposal. We vote § 6 by importer. 140 MPs voted: 95 against 41, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u446	There is a proposal of the MP Gergana Stefanova and a group of MPs: A new paragraph is being created: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 108, para. 1, t. 6 after the words "book and materials" the video recordings under Art. 6 shall be added. 219, para. 2 recorded in a technical medium The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u447	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MP Gergana Stefanova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 145 MPs: 139 against 3, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u448	Proposal of MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid: A new paragraph is being created: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 181, para. The second sentence is created: "In cases where the campaign is conducted in another language, translation is provided in Bulgarian. " The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u449	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u450	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I take the floor on the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of.. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms............................................................................................ 181, para. 2 where we propose to add a sentence second with the following content: "In cases where the campaign is conducted in another language, translation is provided in Bulgarian. Although Bulgaria has been a full member of the European Union since 1 January 2007, honourable Members, today, twelve years later, there are restrictive texts that restrict the rights of hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens, namely during an election campaign to campaign in a language other than Bulgarian. We of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms believe that the language of the mother tongue is a sacred right of every Bulgarian citizen from his birth. That right must not or cannot be challenged or questioned. There is nothing more natural for us to send political messages in the language that people understand better, in any country in the world, including our home country Bulgaria. Dear colleagues, in just one week's time, we will celebrate the International Mother's Day, which was announced by the UNESCO General Conference on 17 November 1999 and is celebrated every year since 2000 and has one single goal, namely to promote linguistic and cultural diversity. In addition, honourable Members, there is a resolution of the European Parliament of 24 March 2009 on multilingualism as an advantage for Europe and a common responsibility for all Member States of the Community, a European resolution confirming compliance with the principle of linguistic equality between people. This is why we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and think that, with the basic human right to campaign in mother tongue during election campaign and colleagues from GERB, and colleagues from BSP, of course, could make it easier to clarify and present their election programs, priorities and platforms with which they appear in elections, which is why we believe that the right to clarify the mother tongue makes it easier for each Bulgarian citizen to choose how to exercise his vote. We do not, of course, accept, by regulatory anti-constitutional acts, to prohibit the voter from taking advantage of his right to be able to freely assess which political power meets his worldview and free perception. Thank you. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u451	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u452	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Again, I would like to draw attention to the texts of our Constitution, to exit the Constitution, and to observe the Constitution, as we have sworn here in this Chamber. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 of the Constitution is said that the official language in the Republic of Bulgaria is the Bulgarian language, but not the only language, the official language. [[Heckling]] In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4, para. 3, honourable Members, it is written from our Constitution: "Bulgaria participates in the construction and development of the European Union." Dear colleagues, in art. 5, para. 1 is written: The Constitution is a supreme law, and the other laws cannot inquire of it. 4 however, it is written: International treaties ratified in constitutional order, promulgated and entered into force for the Republic of Bulgaria are part of the domestic law of the country. They have an advantage over these domestic legislation. Dear Members of Parliament, together with the Treaty on our accession to the European Union, which has been ratified, we have agreed to make general elections in the European Union under Directive 109, where it is said that for local authorities in the elections European citizens can vote where their address is, whether they are citizens or not, of the country concerned. In addition to being able to vote, they can be candidates, that is to say, in the Bulgarian elections for local authorities, non-Bulgarian citizens of the European Union can participate. We oblige them to speak only in Bulgarian during a campaign. The next thing that is said in the directive is also interesting. In the elections for Members of the European Parliament from the countries concerned, non-nationals of those countries may also participate. I'm setting an example with GERB. Let's say, on the list for the European election leader of the list.. as an example I give him the point, Mr. Weber is the leader of the list of GERB and you oblige him to campaign in Bulgarian language. The directive states that it is not necessary to be Bulgarian citizens, it is enough to have an address and Bulgarian citizens who live in the European Union have this right to choose. It is no accident that we will see in other texts of the European Parliament that they make declarations that they participate only once in the respective elections, they can choose, say, Members of the European Parliament from Germany or Members of the European Parliament from Bulgaria. They have that right. My fellow Members, I call on you, not with emotion, but with reason, to support the proposal made by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which states that when spoken in other language than the Bulgarian language, there should be a translation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u453	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid, which the Commission does not support. They voted 152 MPs: 24, against 98, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u454	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, some Members are right in this House and have failed to vote, so I would like a re-vote. I ask these fellow Members not to forget, as well as everyone else, that this is a hot recommendation from the Council of Europe and do not be surprised if the Post-Monitoring Mechanism fails this year. [[(Laughter) Noise and lines.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u455	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. I'm going to rethink the proposal. They voted 154 MPs: 26, against 102, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. Go on, dear Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u456	Proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 201 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in a sentence second, the words "with a decision which is subject to appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court in accordance with art. The decision of the Regional or Municipal Election Commission, confirmed by a decision of the Central Election Commission, shall be subject to appeal under art. 98, para. 2 of the Administrative Procedure Code before a three-member Chamber of the Administrative Court at the location of the regional or municipal electoral commission concerned. In other cases, the decision of the Central Election Commission shall be appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court. 2. The creation of para. 2: In appeal of the decisions of the regional or municipal electoral commission before the court concerned, art. 58.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u457	Statements, coworkers? I won't. That's § 10, isn't it? Under the old protocol, it's § 7, but with a new numbering § 10. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 10 with a text, according to the Commission report. They voted 132 MPs: for 85, against 47, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u458	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to ask that the relevant paragraphs be renumbered, because there may be confusion.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u459	The one we voted on was § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u460	Yeah, but from now on. I would like to report to your attention: No 953-03-6 of 14 February 2019 for the second vote on a joint bill No 853-03-91 of 19 December 2018 on the first vote of the Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 854-01-13, submitted by Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova and a group of MPs of 23 February 2018 and a Draft amendment and supplement to the Election Code, No 854-01-84, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Hristian Radev Mitev, Emil Dimitrov Simeonov and Iskren Veselinov on 16 November 2018, drawn up on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Proposal of the National Representative Diana Savateva and a group of MPs: A new § 10 is being created. ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 204 para. 3 is The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u461	Statements? Here you are, dear Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u462	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to briefly motivate our proposal. The proposal to remove the ban on publication and publicity of sociological surveys and polls on the day of reflection and on the election day itself is dictated by a strong trend that has been noticed in recent years is the growing influence of social networks. Social networks are a parallel platform for disclosure of information that does not fall under regulation as do electronic media, websites, radios, televisions. You know very well that in recent years, when there are elections, we have witnessed the following paradox. In individual sites, as in radios and televisions, no direct results from polls and surveys are announced, using sniffing expressions and allegories, while in social networks in Bulgaria is a popular Facebook, the results appear, as one to one is said, I mean the results of these sociological studies. This issue has been widely discussed in the Commission. He's really quite discussional. Many opinions have been expressed on the issue As importers, we are convinced that our arguments are serious because the logic of the Law is to follow the trends in reality as they are. It is not a question of circumvention of the Law, it is not a question of wrongdoing, it is a question of factual situation which cannot be changed from the current legal and legal basis. I point out this argument in the first place, but I will also point out a second argument that the idea of this change came from the media themselves, from a major media, supported by another 14, that is, we as importers have listened to the voice of a professional community that works on the field and knows best these relations and which, if our proposal is not accepted, will be forced to again fall into almost comical situations and hypocritical when announcing sociological studies. Adopting this proposal, recognizing it, we have made appropriate consultations with lawyers and sociologists and a large number of them, including sociologists, found our proposal quite reasonable and quite fair in relation to the voters themselves, because voters themselves have the right to receive information as it is and not to receive it on some gray paths. After all, the bigger the space for the correct one, for the verified one, for the correct information, the less the space for the information that has an unclear source, as often happens on the election day, I have already given you examples. And thirdly, we have tried to explore what international practice is. It is quite diverse, but I can tell you that there are a lot of countries among European countries that do not have a limit to publicising sociological studies, both on election day and on reflection day. These are the Netherlands, Finland, Belgium, Austria, Slovenia. It does not matter what the vote will be, because for me as an importer is important, and for my colleagues, I hope that the debate on an acute topic has been raised, so to speak, on a parliamentary level and this issue has been put up and discussed in plenary. I am convinced that this is a step towards another thinking and to mature the general opinion that this sociology will eventually be normally announced on election day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u463	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. The line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u464	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A brief line, although it is written here: "An additional report " and it may not be an additional one, but a very new one, whatever. Dear importers of this proposal, having made a proposal to disclose the results of elections and polls on election day, you should have made, in my opinion, a proposal to cancel the day for reflection. It just doesn't need it. What do we need this day to think about? This day of reflection is given to every citizen, to anyone who has the right to vote, so that he can freely, calmly think about who and how to vote, and you with the disclosure, with the opportunity for sociological research in the media, of course that the media will be for the press! Of course the sociologists will be for us! The media will have a viewability, sociologists will also have a job on election day, but we introduced this restriction precisely in order not to influence the electoral process, and on election day, because it directly affects the electoral process. You know there are conformist attitudes, conformist votes, and that's why these polls are being done. That is why many sociological studies with different results are being conducted before the elections themselves, according to who paid the agency concerned, naturally the agency gives in high percentage rates above the real result that the party or coalition would receive. That is why we have introduced in this Election Code a ban on at least the voting day not to announce these sociological studies and results, and this is quite normal. Otherwise, the rest would mean on the day of the vote to conduct a practical election campaign, and that's what you want. Of course, I don't know which media gave you that idea. Perhaps it is also for the election day, they will have a viewing, sociologists will have a job, but this is not in view of good practice and procedure on the election day itself, and this will definitely violate the electoral process...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u465	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u466	...on the election day itself, as well as the election result and it will be to the detriment of smaller parties and coalitions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u467	Mr. Popov, time's up. Thank you. A line? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u468	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Sawateva, the problem that you have put in place is neither as sharp as you say it is, nor is it relevant. The other thing that disturbs me is your statement that on election day the media were looking for other ways to hint, let's call it the election result, which brings me to another thought that you, in fact, from the stand of the National Assembly, along with those you have condemned, are looking for other ways to break the law. And in order that you no longer have to break this law, you want to put it into a legal norm, to a legal norm, and we make it easier for you and you don't have to think about other ways. On the other hand, as Mr. Popov said, on the day of the election the election result is a way of forming public pressure that a certain political power is already winning the elections. What does it mean to mobilize or surrender others? Particularly mobilizing will act with regard to employers and other people who are dependent on the respective governing force. I think it is wrong for the Bulgarian Parliament to seek ways and opportunities for certain people to be given the opportunity to circumvent the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u469	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. Is there a third line? I can't see. Here's your coat, dear Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u470	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Popov, regarding the day of reflection and whether sociological studies can be disclosed.. You are actually drawing attention to a very important question: what is sociology? Is this about science that impartially has to do research and give some results, or is it about pep talk? Assuming sociology is science, then it's not about pep talk on the day of reflection, but about the announcement that there are some intermediate options being sought, it's a fact. We're not trying to do it, just go back years and see what happens when there's an election. It's not up to me and your wish. It's happening. Our only goal is to formalise what is happening because disclosure is a fact and now that there is a regulation and this is officialized, the agencies will come up with their names and will be responsible for what they report. Where this regulation is not cleared, the possibility of misinformation is much greater. Regarding Mr. Baychev, I will not comment that the issue is neither sharp nor up-to-date. I think that's ridiculous. It's not worth commenting on. The very fact that we are here now discussing the issue of sociology within the debate on the Election Code disproves its statement. I will repeat what I said in my statement: the aim of the proposal is to eliminate an inequality between social networks and between traditional media. There were lines during the discussion that actually the regulatory authorities were not doing their job. Facebook is not a media service and is not subject to such regulation, so an official website may not publish anything on its own platform or release a red tab and a blue Mercedes, but on its Facebook profile it can run the results one to one and this is not a violation. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u471	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. Here you go, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u472	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In relation to the proposed amendments to the Election Code by the honourable Mrs. Savateva and a group of MPs, I strongly object in the way and approach in which these proposals were made, as they were made in 12 without five, metaphorically speaking. You hardly have any reason to speak on behalf of agencies that do sociological research and the media. If you wanted to do these studies with broad public support, you would have announced it much earlier, perhaps in the proposal that was made at first reading. Now you speak on behalf of imaginary, of course, communities. It will show whether this is a political decision of the leadership of the Political Party GERB, masked, as by the way, and many of your other proposals, as a proposal of MPs. Apparently after GERB's national meeting and Mr. Tsvetanov's speech, the management of GERB actually realized that the upcoming campaign for representatives, for members of the European Parliament, is too short. There are holidays, there are many days off and you want to compensate for the possibility of campaigning, the possibility of manipulation of public opinion. With what so far have the texts in force led you to make a proposal for their amendment? You're talking about sociology. Actually, it's about research. You're talking about responsibility. Who is responsible when presenting research to the public? And the latest polls showed a very big difference in attitudes and depending on who is the contracting authority of the studies or were worried that Bulgarian citizens on the day of reflection and on the day they vote can make their choice that does not suit you? That you propose that polls be announced at the last minute, in the last hours of voting, I think it is reproachable, and will lead to a distortion in terms of information to those who freely have to make their choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u473	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Nedyalkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u474	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! That's a very short statement. To a certain extent, I understand the motives of the importers. As a man who has always been a storonist of freedom of speech, of freedom of expression, I would support such texts if they really matter to the media. I think that here in the two texts that are proposed, in the two proposals of the colleague Sawateva, they do not concern the media. They refer to something else entirely to sociology in election day, and so in general to sociological research. I also understand the situation, which is a few years back, when disclosure of poll results from sociological agencies is expressed in one or another not very accurate and even a funny form. And that's understandable. It is here that, in time, we will see a ratio between personal data, the damagingness of privacy and freedom of speech and freedom of expression. Then I ask myself: what position would we take if here we accept the position of complete freedom of speech, of publication and without any restrictions on sociological research, do I not speak whether they are manipulated or not? This is not a question of discussion, so perhaps we should approach it more carefully at this stage of this publication. Any disclosure of sociological research would lead to a violation of people's privacy, as they would have said in time, when looking at another point, but not going in there. And something else, see Art. 1. 204. If paragraph 3 is repealed, the member shall obtain one such form as may be said to be that the respondents who are in front of the sections may announce the results they acquire in each section if this article is not present. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u475	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. - What's the line? You have the floor for a line, dear Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u476	Honourable Members, very briefly I will confirm something: this is not about disclosure and non-disclosure of sociological studies and consultations. They're also a fact right now, and now it's there. It's about official and illegal disclosure. The idea is that what is currently being released illegally, to be made public and to have a weight. As to whether it's the media's proposal or a hidden proposal [[shows]] , this is the letter I received on 19 April 2017, and it is signed by 15 media. This letter was received at least ten other MPs. I just kept it, and when the Election Code was opened, we consulted lawyers and made appropriate proposals for changes. They are absolutely consistent with those made by colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u477	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. Second line? I can't see. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u478	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Sawateva! Quite briefly: here you really need to look for some balance. A large part of the media also wants to gain more media space using one of the most fragile topics such as the elections. The fight there is also about market share and to achieve results that will be, so to speak, blackened by the media later, subsequently. This is precisely one of the reasons I didn't want to say it in the speech, it is achieved in other countries precisely because of this way of reviving the media space pressed on by the Internet, by Facebook, and other forms of communication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u479	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote your proposed proposal to the National Representative Diana Savateva and a group of MPs. [[Definitions between President Emil Hristov, expert from the Committee on Legal Affairs and Members of Parliament.]] Please cancel the vote. I again put to the vote the proposal presented to you by the National Representative Diana Savateva and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 132 MPs: for 6, against 62, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. Please continue with the presentation of the texts, dear Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u480	Dear Mr. Chairman, we continue on the Additional Report with a proposal from the National Representative Diana Savateva and a group of MPs: A new § 11 is being created. ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u481	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Statements, coworkers? I won't. I put to the vote the proposed proposal submitted by the Parliamentary Representative Diana Savateva and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 124 MPs: 5 against 56, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u482	From the main report, Mr President, the Commission proposes to create a new § 10. I make the clarification here that I follow the numbering as reflected on the basic or on the supplementary report, and I ask that this be taken into account accordingly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u483	With a new numbering.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u484	With a new numbering.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u485	Yeah, that's 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u486	Yes, § 11, that is, § 10, which becomes § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 206, para. 1 shall be added at the end if the section is designated for engine vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u487	Thank you. Statements? You have the floor to speak, dear Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u488	Dear Bulgarian citizens! [[Laughter and lines from GERB and "United Patriarchs."]] I appeal to you, as is traditional in the last few months, because with the ruling majority there is no dialogue and no understanding and there is no point in talking to people who have given you some drastic examples of what is not a Bulgarian Parliament, how it is not violated, should not be violated Bulgarian legislation. So today my traditional address is to you, not to them. This text, which we are now going to discuss and vote on, is the first of several to refer to the engine vote. I remind you that in 2014 the engine vote was introduced in the Election Code with a road map in 2019, i.e. now to have one fully secured in each election section in Bulgaria. Instead of this happening, today we are witnessing an experience of this modern and modern achievement of the Bulgarian electoral legislation to be reduced or repealed. We ask ourselves why, since the President of the Budget Committee has money in the budget for machines, since there are technical opportunities for them, why are they gone for five years? Because the governors of GERB want to replace your vote; because the engine vote is a guarantee of an honest vote, and they do not want one; because GERB are preparing to fake the elections in 2019! [[Voices from GERB: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u489	Mrs. Ninova!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u490	What is the way to achieve this? [[Noise, chanting and banging on the banks by GERB and the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u491	Don't make any suggestions, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u492	One is the outcome: by breaking the law adopted in 2014, or at least by failing to comply or being reduced in a way that you will see afterwards. Unfortunately, today, not only here and now in this text, several times the government has dramatically broken the laws and Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria: you can no longer appeal the decision of the CEC with a cassation appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court of the Supreme Administrative Court of the Republic of Bulgaria; they have refused to clear the dead people in the lists by rejecting our proposals; they have reduced the quorum in the committees so that the ruling party can make its own decisions; there will be no machine voting to buy and change the vote; you will also have no preferences, as you will see later, one small step, to choose majority persons, and not so frozen parties, and this right will take you away; naturally, to manipulate you. [[World lines and shouts: "Eee!" by GERB and "United Patriarchs."]] Dear Bulgarian citizens! Theoretically, laws are passed in order to last, not for a single majority and not for a single parliament, the law applies to everyone and theoretically should be long-term, not to replace any party when it comes to power. Today the government of GERB changes the legislation, but how long will they manage? Tomorrow the BSP will come to power, for example. [[Speaks and lines by GERB and "United Patriarchs."]] A law must have durability in Bulgarian legal peace and in public relations. This law serves the party that is in power to stay there by falsifying the elections. This is today's Election Code. Our battle today is not for BSP and it's not conjunctive. If we only follow our party interest, we would support such a thing, because today they rule, tomorrow we will take advantage of it. No, that's not our goal and it's not the battle of the BSP! Our battle today is for basic values in Bulgaria and in the Bulgarian society.. free choice, transparency, publicity, rule of law, free will. We're not gonna stop her from fighting in this room. If everything ends today with the adoption of these amendments that GERB are making, we are bringing all this to the Venice Commission, we are presenting all this to the European ambassadors in Bulgaria to know how European elections will be held for MEPs in the European Union. Let the ambassadors know from now on what elections are being prepared. We also address the Ombudsman, who has already expressed his position, to the President, who has also expressed his position today: Mr President, veto and we from the parliamentary group will submit this to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u493	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u494	Another sentence, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u495	Finish your thought, please, briefly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u496	We turn to every Bulgarian who wants to be free, to all free-thinking left, right, centerists: we are different ideologically, we can argue as much as you want on tax reform and on health reform, but let us all unite today because we have a cause for unification and it is to stop the dictatorship of the Borisov regime today and any dictatorship of any party tomorrow. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u497	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Bikov. [[Voices "Eee!" by "BSP for Bulgaria" and lines: "Where is Spas Gurnevski?"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u498	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Of course, Mrs. Nino is entitled to her opinion on the various texts, it is normal to have a power of authority and every political power to express her opinion and concept on the various issues. What is worrying, and not only in this statement, is the suggestion that elections will be faked. They did not pass in the Chamber, we must be very responsible for this process, for the electoral process. When confidence in elections is violated, then democracy disappears, the institutions are illegal and society falls into chaos and all those Bulgarian citizens you talk to start living badly. What you are doing without any evidence, because the elections have not passed, there is no way you can have evidence that they have been falsified, that they are corrupted, almost bordering on an attack on the democratic order of the country. This is the basis of democracy. Democracy is an extremely fragile thing, it can end in a few hours literally. We have seen such cases, not in the distant past, but very recently not in Bulgaria, thank God! But democracy can end very quickly when elections become illegal. It doesn't matter if there were forgeries in the elections or if there were forgeries, we'll make our campaign on the fact that they will be falsified. Why? Because we know we're gonna lose them. This can work at your congress when you come out after the elections, only it is a blow to the democratic foundations of the Bulgarian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u499	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Mr. Nenkov, and Mr. Kirilov is after him. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] There are only three lines, unfortunately. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u500	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mrs. Ninova, I will start from where my colleague Bikov finished on the legitimacy of an election. Undoubtedly, elections are the great achievement of the civilized world, for choosing its rulers on a legitimate path, over a certain period of time, without coming to any oppositions in society and in other ways to bring down the governments of these countries. What you're doing is very ugly and I'll tell you why. Because in order for elections to be really legitimate, you have to have two major factors that have to be fulfilled. First, the elections to be held under the relevant law and to observe as it is, as the majority has accepted it whether I like it or not, the majority is what determines what the rules will be. Secondly, each of the political parties should recognise these elections. If you have noticed, in other countries, much more developed than we as a democratic one, I do not remember, or if memory lies to me, you correct me, to see in France and in Germany anyone have gone out and said the elections have been taken, we do not recognise the elections. I remember when GERB lost the presidential election, what we did, and what our leader did is he admitted the elections, admitted the loss and never questioned the election of your president under your code, adopted by your majority in the Central Election Commission. [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] , and I don't remember any of our colleagues, including me, saying: elections have been faked, we don't recognize these elections. And this is the second very important condition: whatever electoral rules there are, in the end, every political party must be at the height of being elected...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u501	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u502	...to recognize any winner or loser, so please don't cross that line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u503	Here you are, dear Mr. Kirilov. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria Look to your right, look to your left! Is this democracy?]] I've made a decision. Stay calm. Colleagues, there's a line where you raise your hand. So I've noticed, I've made such a decision, I'm not taking anyone's word away. Mr. Nenkov and Mr. Kirilov raised their hand almost simultaneously, and then... I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u504	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members of the House, Dear Mrs. Nino, Dear citizens of Bulgaria, our voters, our listeners! Dear Mrs. Ninova, the event of the last two weeks has come from the CEC. Here's this report, so I'll present it to you, please take a look at it. Mrs. Ninova won't look at it. This is a report by "Sova Haris", of "Sova 5" AD, a contractor of a public procurement "supplier of market research, analysis and consulting within the meaning of art. 44 of the CPO to determine the estimated price............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It's a long name. This report is from January 30th to the CEC. The CEC is a contracting entity.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u505	Succinctly, Mr. Kirilov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u506	On page 71, the following is written: "Venezuela. As a supplier of 14 consecutive choices in Venezuela, since 2018. The main reason is that more than 1 million votes have been forged in the last elections, and the assessment of this is of the company itself. Dear Mrs. Ninova, with these million and a half false voices using machines, your partner and the person close to you Maduro has been selected. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u507	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Dear Mrs. Ninova, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u508	Dear Mr. Kirilov, common sense, if you have it, should dictate to you these days to remain silent about Venezuela, at least until you find out how the petrodolals arrived here, by whose account and during whose rule! So you better shut up about Venezuela. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] On other matters. Dear Bulgarian citizens, not us, but 81% of you, according to the [[(Noise and lines from GERB: "Eee!" This is absurd!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u509	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u510	And 72% of you are of the opinion that in the elections people are forced to vote in a certain way. For us Bulgarian citizens, your opinion is much more popular than GERB's or anyone's, personally as a member of parliament. Next, in France and Germany, they did not dispute the elections. Ladies and gentlemen, have you ever heard of the existence of these MPs wearing sacks on the night of election day in order to challenge elections? When you talk to these people about buying votes, replacing protocols, they look at you as an alien, they don't understand what it is or how it can happen. What do you expect in France to appeal elections?! I'm telling you, there's no MP carrying sacks back and forth at night, and that's from the ruling majority. As for the attack on democratic order. Several years in a row the removal of corruption in the management of GERB was defined as undermining statehood and therefore you even put the fence on a list of national security so that the truth about the thefts there would not come out. The protection of the animals of those people of Strandja who are still alive have not died, you described it as a coup d'état. The indication of your unconstitutional behavior on our part now defines as an attack against the democratic order....................... the absolutely mistaken replacement of the truth and the facts in the Bulgarian political life! Well, with this replacement, we're going to fight, not just here, and not just on the occasion of the Election Code, because you just gave birth to some of the fake news fighters. For example, that BSP has a majority in the Central Election Commission. The main fighter against the false news is gone. Tsvetanov is gone, so I can tell him in the eye: what fake news do you fight with when you let them go the most? [[(Noise and lines from GERB: "Eee!" This is absurd!]] Yesterday you reported that BSP had appointed the CEC. But the CEC has been elected by the National Assembly and has not been appointed but has been chosen. Dear Bulgarians, GERB has seven people in CEC and BSP has six. Not to mention how many other parties have.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u511	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u512	Stop with the fake news, replacing the facts. What you've been doing for 10 years, not a few, is really killing the rule of law, killing democracy, ending the Constitution...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u513	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u514	...and this can only be ended if the free-thinking Bulgarians unite against the dictatorship and the Borisov regime. [[Comments from GERB. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u515	Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u516	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kirilov, unlike you, I have been an observer of the Venezuelan elections, and I can tell you the mechanism on which it is voted in Venezuela, and there is no theoretical possibility of being falsified because there is a machine-voting that does not even use electronic machines to be hacked. You go into the section with your ID card, they check you on the list, and you go to a table where there's a little front with a simple cash register, whatever's in the groceries, mechanical. Across the street you have the parties written: GERB "01," BSP "02," DPS "03," you vote with the corresponding vote, which enters the memory of the machine, a small receipt comes out, which is like the newsletter, you take it and drop it in the urn, and before you go out, with the indeterminate ink with which I soiled my finger, I could not delete it for five days, so you should not vote twice. When it comes to 1900 hours, you hit the total and get a taboo where the result comes out: GERB 2000, BSP 1000, DPS 500, [[GERB lines]] Look, I'm making you brushes. You open the urn, sort the ballots and start comparing them to the taboo that came out of the machine. One ballot cannot move, and then the sectional committees, which are the nests of forgery, have only registration functions because there are observers, and the ballots with the result of the tablogram of this machine, respectively, go to the respective regional election commission. You can't fake a voice because, again, the machine is mechanical and you can't hack it, so what these gentlemen write, I've seen with my own eyes. How do you vote? It is true that a little longer is the vote, there were queues, but there is no way to fake the elections. Let's get there with the engine vote so that everyone can trust the result and no one can question it. I guess this time will soon come, but when we come to power. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u517	Thank you, dear Mr. Pawnov. Are there any lines? Any other speeches? Okay, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u518	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to read you something: we are proposing the introduction of a machine vote to limit the control of vote and election forgeries. The machine vote will help overcome subjectivism in the work of the sectional election committees so that people are sure that their votes will be taken into account correctly. What's changed since then? Absolutely nothing in this direction and therefore over 80% of Bulgarian citizens believe that the election results are manipulated, that they have been pressured for whom and how to vote. Here I was given some examples with France and Germany. Good, but I don't know if the one who gives the examples knows that a change in their electoral rules lasts 2 years, not like here at the Legal Commission, for 10, 15 minutes. There is one change made for 2 years. And if this crap that you created today in Parliament with the Election Code happens there, not yellow vests, but blue helmets won't help them. Only it happens here under your dictatorship. Therefore, I suggest that you end this agony and introduce one member first into the Election Code. Next you can write, of course, whatever you want, and it sounds like this: "All kinds of elections are null and void if GERB does not win them. Make this article first: "All kinds of elections are null and void if GERB does not win them, solve your problem and be happy! Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u519	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Svilensky, you have the floor. After him, Mr. Gokov, after him, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u520	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am sorry that Mr. Kirilov left the Chamber, but it seems to me that we were having this debate when we adopted the budget of the state. And then just so long and perhaps with the same arguments we were arguing whether some 50 million should be included in the budget or not. And after a long debate, again extraordinary committees, breaks, if you remember, you didn't accept it, then it turned out that it was recorded somewhere in the budget and that the money for this engine vote was provided. Me, and then, and now I'm going to raise the question: does anyone in this House doubt that machine voting is an obstacle to buying votes and that it is the best way to account for results? And if there is one of the other MPs, please raise your hand. Anybody have any doubts about the engine vote? Here we are, colleagues from the Bulgarian Rhodolists, two are already raising their hand. And when we are all convinced that there should be a machine vote, becomes the chair of the Legal Commission, pulls out a report that is still standing in front of the bank, and says how in Venezuela machines had compromised the vote and how we should not do that. Let's get out of this split personality. Do we want or do we not want a machine vote? If we are clear that we want a machine, then let's talk about the other topic: can we introduce it, can we not, 1000, 2000, 5000? Here we throw arguments at whether the vote in the machine voting is fair and when it becomes necessary to introduce, you say that the vote is not fair, they can be manipulated. There's no way people would believe that a machine vote is fair if we in this tribune say they can be manipulated. And when everyone, only two people raised their hand that they didn't believe in the engine vote, that is, 238 MPs should believe, let's see now why don't we introduce it?! Because you're worried about an honest vote! There's $50 million in money, there's $50 million in money for each section. We all agree that this is the most honest vote...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u521	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u522	...but you don't want to enter it. Someone from the ruling majority get up and say why you don't want to. The only argument could be that the time to the European elections is already shortening, but for the local elections, what is the holdup for eight months? Not 9000 machines, 99,000 machines can be manufactured and bought, as long as there is willpower that elections must be fair. But when you want to corrupt them, when you want to fake them, they're part of your steps. And when Mr. Bikov says: "Let's see, let's pass the elections and then see if they are fakes! "It wasn't, Mr. Bikov, you bet it in the Law step by step, article by article You bet the forgery and manipulation in the Law, as you did in the Law on Public Procurement Law on Corruption, so here in the Law on Elections you are doing the Law of Manipulation. Bulgarian citizens can't lie to them, they see it, they realize it and they can't trust you. So let's say from now on, because there are a few more texts on the engine vote, if someone comes out and says they can't enter, say why they can't. Once again, when these two separate, the vote won't be fair and that they can't be. I say again: there is money in the budget; there is a desire in 238 MPs, at least stated, but when the vote suddenly works your self-preservation mechanism in power to have more time to distribute orders, posts. But do it in an honest way! Why are you afraid? Tell me what's scary about a clear, honest, transparent vote! Make a program, get candidates out, come to elections, convince people, win them fair! Why do you have to lie to them all the time? Thank you. [[(Reply from GERB: Did the Presidents honestly win?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u523	Mr. Prodanov, Mr. Bikov, Mr. Popov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u524	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Svilensky, you speak here, we want or we don't want a machine vote. I don't agree with you because we shouldn't or shouldn't want to. In the current Law in 2019, machine voting was to take place in all sections. If a Bulgarian citizen does not comply with the law in force, what is next for him? Punishment, prosecution, fines, prison. If a citizen of GERB, who is a MP, does not like the law, instead of fulfilling it, changes it. So the question is not whether we want to or not. Here is the question of democracy. When we talk about mode, that's what we mean. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u525	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. Mr. Bikov, then Mr. Kutev. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u526	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Svilenski, I regret that I may have to give you news in advance, but this point is about to be voted in, where we will gradually introduce 3000 machines at least to the European elections. [[noise and lines]] , 6000 at least in the local elections, they can be more, which shows that we are not so afraid of this machine vote. Another is the question in your criterion for falsifying elections, which we have heard from Mr. Pawnov. According to him, the Venezuelan model is obviously far better than the Bulgarian model. In Venezuela there is no doubt about forgeries and in Bulgaria elections are faked! I just don't know why Maduro and Guido aren't here. [[noise and lines]] And there's one there! [[(Replicates from BSP for Bulgaria.) How can there not be?! There is!]] I'm sorry, I got up to say that the engine vote would be phased in, and it would be in pretty fast stages, and it wouldn't be postponed. That's where it's going. I don't know what this debate is about, why this pathos, when we're about to see this point and not now?! [[Noise and lines.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u527	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u528	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Svilensky, you said that perhaps the only hypothesis not to introduce the engine vote was that the European elections were imminent. That's not true. Since 2014, machine voting in the Election Code has been introduced. By now, all 12,000 sections should have been machine-voted. What were you doing here from 2014 to 2019, so you didn't bring him in because you were in charge?! The Council of Ministers is yours. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u529	You're asking him?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u530	I don't agree with Mr. Svilensky. He said that only... [[Replications from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Come here and tell me from the stands what I wanted to say and what I didn't want to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u531	Don't get into an argument with the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u532	Besides, no machine voting! An appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court is not necessary. Decisions with a simple majority in the CEC, SIK, RIK, anywhere where GERB and any other twin party, a dining partner, will be able to make all the decisions that you want to make. This is your Election Code! [[(Noise and lines from GERB:]] This is your electoral code. And it's obvious because since 2014, we've introduced this thing in the elections. And instead of you obeying the Law as you must obey the Law for a new CEC, you do nothing, but on the contrary you change it so that it pleases you and you have official victories. [[Noise and lines.]] That's why I told you: write your first article: All elections are null and void if GERB does not win them and solve your problems.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u533	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Mr. Svilensky, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u534	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Popov, thank you for the line. I agree with all this stuff. I really missed saying that, yeah. The law has been in force since 2014, there is a road map and now in 2019 there should be 12 000 machines.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u535	It's not 12,000.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u536	That's right, Mr. Bikov, I'm transferring the line to you now. 12,000 machines. But let's remember and go back 7-8 hours at 9:00. What kind of proposal did you come into the room with, remember? [[Noise and lines.]] Do you remember with what proposal you entered GERB in the Chamber and with what proposal entered the Commission? With 1,000 sections.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u537	What kind of offer now?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u538	You're 3,000 now, but who believes you? Does anyone believe you? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Does anyone believe you when you change your mind hour by hour?! Tell me: do you want 30% to be honest with the elections? Because you don't want to be 100% honest?! Do 12,000 machines have 12,000 machines, and you want 3,000?! Because trying like this is how it's gonna work?! With 30% we can still hold out, you still won't make it. When you say you want fair choices, think long term. Place your bets, I say again: the money is there, the sections, now we change the Law, change it so that the current law can be implemented in each section. Because Mr. Prodanov is right: every Bulgarian citizen, when he breaks the law, chases him to the ground, but the MPs from GERB can break him whenever they want and as many times as they want! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u539	Who's breaking it?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u540	Yes, yes, here in the National Assembly. That's right, we've broken it dozens of times today. And no one will take responsibility. So seriously look at this question, because these are the important things: the electoral lists, where these two million then pours them... I'm sorry there's no election specialist here to have this debate with him. Because it's very easy to put the emblem on you for the big election specialist when you've made the Law such that you're flicking it everywhere.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u541	But the law belongs to Maya Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u542	It's very easy to do this: two million more voters, ballots, fake protocols all you want and you win the election! So you can earn it for another 25 years, only people won't let you do it anymore, because people figured out how you win the election, with what manipulations, and now you're showing it with your fear of introducing the engine vote. And if you're not afraid, and if you're sure of the policy you're leading, there should be 12,000 sections with real ballots, with real protocols and real election lists! This shows the power of a party. Unfortunately, you didn't pass this exam today, colleagues. Thank you. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u543	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u544	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. I will start by saying that I am a third term MP. Here I see from the ruling people who are fifth and sixth in my opinion. [[Laughter, excitement in GERB.]] I think there is, I don't know. I don't see him, I don't know what term it is, May 6th, so there is. However, the point is that for my short parliamentary practice, I have not been reported in such a way that there is a basic report, after which there is a temporary report. What are we doing right now? We've been looking at one point in the provisional report, we've been going to the main report for a while, we're going to take some time on it, then we're going to go back to the provisional one, but just for two points to get back to the main one. Above all, the texts in the two reports are virtually identical, with the exception that, against the same text, one report says that the Commission supports it, the other report says that the Commission does not support it. This is an example of how the National Assembly cannot work and how it should not be managed. That's why my procedure is towards you. This way of management cannot lead to effective legislation. By the way, it cannot even lead to effective driving of a car if these principles apply to any other profession. If this should be used to manage elementary processes in tailoring, I'm telling you that shirts will come out without sleeves. In this regard, I suggest the following. That's why I took the floor now. Obviously, the point of the engine vote is going to be long. Obviously, sooner or later you will have to rest, because that is the Rules of the National Assembly. I ask you very much to do so, that immediately in the Commission of Mr. Kirilov to activate the administration and until the end of the rest of the holiday to bring together the two reports in one, which is the least he can do to systematize this dialogue in any way, because it has just been said that one document says 1000, the other document says 3000. You see, this isn't about formal differences.! It's about an absolutely outrageous way of doing business that shows low qualifications. I therefore ask you to take the necessary measures so that these two reports after the break come back united so that we know what we are voting on. I apologize: just so you know what you're voting on. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u545	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. I listened to you carefully. Am I to understand that you're proposing on behalf of a parliamentary group interrupting?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u546	No. I suggest unification of the two materials as it should have been.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u547	If you don't have such an offer, we move on. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Hristov, I apologize, Mr. Gokov was before you, then Mr. Bojankov. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Gokov was before Mr. Bojankov and then Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u548	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm joining the debate about the engine vote because I'm a fan of this engine vote. I will tell you why I am a supporter because I attended some elections as an observer, along with about 1,500 other observers, where there was a machine vote. Since then, if I can use that word, I've been a fan of machine voting because I think it suggests an absolutely fair election result and it's impossible to manipulate the election. Now Mr. Kirilov and Mr. Bikov explain here how some machine results could be manipulated. I didn't see it happen there. In full cooperation with all political forces and because there would be no opposition in this country if there were a chance to fake machine elections. I will get to one other country. It is Bulgaria. Bulgaria, which has been saying for 30 years that it is a democratic country and democracy is established in Bulgaria, and its population, once again I have the opportunity from this tribune to say it: if not the whole population, at least 90% of it believes that the elections in Bulgaria are being manipulated. Perhaps in this House the percentage of those who think otherwise will be smaller, but I am sure that the Bulgarian people believe that the elections in Bulgaria are largely falsified. Bulgaria is now a member of the European Union since 2007, i.e. now 10 years will become, we are members of the European Union and in such a European country indeed, as Mrs. Nino said, we are causing confusion in people when we talk about buying votes in Bulgaria, that counterfeit protocols and so on. I'm not gonna talk about the bags. I'm not gonna talk about who's wearing them or who's not wearing them. In the Law, in the Election Code and at present it is written that since 2019 the vote should be machine and in all, around 12 000 sections, there should be machines. In the budget there is money allocated for these machines. It became clear from the statement of the Minister of Finance. Until a while ago, there was talk of no one to deliver the machines. I think this is also not a problem because only to be declared a public contract, and within a month in Bulgaria there will be 12 000 machines - not only for rent, if you will, to buy them and so on, whatever you want. So this problem is off, too. Most of the Bulgarians want machine voting to minimize electoral manipulations. We are all convinced that machine voting leads to objective results, and then we come to the question: then what are the real reasons why the majority does not want machine voting? Or now we can secure a professional victory by not introducing the engine voting of the few upcoming choices, and further on we will think about it and still correct the Election Code. Whether it's 3,000, next year 5,000 or 10,000 is in question because I don't believe you. If you could have been trusted as a majority and as a party, you would have respected the Election Code and now we should have had machines. That you will now promise that in years there will be 12,000, and now only 3,000, it is unbelievable. If someone here stands up and says what's the real reason why we don't put in the engine vote, maybe I'll agree and think about it. I'll even think about how to vote, but I didn't see any argument, other than some reports here that Mr. Kirilov quoted, with unknown data.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u549	I explained where it came from.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u550	You may have explained, Mr. Kirilov, but I don't believe you because... [[Relations from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] I'm not going into dialogue. If you want, come back and explain where you're getting this data. Until you have some motive against machine voting, or any obstacle to the introduction of the machine voting, I will believe that your real goals are different.................. to manipulate the election results. For now, thank you. If you have lines, I'll answer you, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u551	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. A line, dear Mr. Kirilov? Are there any other lines?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u552	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Gokov, again, this report was in no way known to us. Here, I'm showing you the report. [[Shows the document.]] Here! I could show it page by page, with pictures. I can quote all the companies described by the researcher who did the research for the Central Election Commission. This is the result of an award by the Central Election Commission. This 150-page report is posted on the website of the Central Election Commission. I don't want to do it, I mean not to think of it as advertising for Sova Harris. I don't want it to sound that way, but my impression of these 150 pages is that they have made an effort to explore objectively the market first, second problems, third the history of using machines and reach an objective analysis of advantages and disadvantages. I deliberately do not quote the delivery prices of individual suppliers, I do not quote the products of several manufacturers in the world of such machines, but if you take the time and get acquainted, albeit partially, with this report, you will see that this method of voting outside Bulgaria is gaining less and less confidence, on the contrary it is discredited. If we are talking about machines and machine voting and we are talking about a new trend in this direction, these are newsletter scanning machines and they are introduced into some of the US states. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u553	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Another line? I can't see. Mr. Gokov, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u554	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kirilov, yes, a good report of 150 pages! And what does that report say? I didn't see the engine vote was too bad. If it's too bad, Mr. Kirilov, why would you introduce 3,000 machines? Tell the Bulgarian people: we postpone the engine vote no 3000, no 12 000 will be there, because worldwide there are moods against the engine vote. Mr. Kirilov, first of all, I don't know whether there are moods against machine voting, but more against electronic voting. There's a difference, if you don't know, to tell you. Secondly, you are quoting a 150-page report ordered by a single authority, the Central Election Commission. Shall I tell you what the spokesperson of the Central Election Commission said? He said we don't want a machine vote because it's impossible to deliver machines. In fact, I quote: "We may want to go into space, but we can't. " - Remember these statements? Now how can I believe in the objectivity of a report by people who, as a composition, are against machine voting who have ordered a report for which they have paid and that this report is objective? And you tell me, meet the report. When do I meet Mr. Kirilov? You guys are piling them up, meeting last night until 12:00, you're suffering from sleep deprivation. [[Relations from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u555	Mr. Kirilov, please sit down! Don't engage in dialogue with Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u556	You made a line for me, and I'm addressing it. You're suffering from sleep deprivation and you're talking nonsense because you're going out... [[GERB lines.]] You may be outraged, but you go out, you meet for 15 minutes, you come back here and everyone has to read and prepare for 15 minutes on the things you've done and what you have in your head, and you think everyone has to comply with your ideas. You can't guarantee an election victory! You're going down. These facts will keep you one or two choices, it won't become any more? You need to be sure of that! And as long as you delay it, whatever you do, the engine vote is a way to remove GERB from power, because otherwise I do not know how you will be removed with the manipulations you are doing in the elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u557	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. In the manner of conduct, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u558	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Please pay attention to the speakers of this tribune when trying to interpret and reproduce personal data, regardless of this being true or false. In addition, I think that I was also affected by my colleagues from the Committee on Legal Affairs, with which we were actually in good faith last night until late discussing. However, in this regard, I will add two facts: Mr President, I have not been in the way of getting acquainted with this report in any way. This report is official. This report is accessible, I see that colleagues are technically equipped and can use it at the moment. Besides, dear Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u559	You have your reasons, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u560	Yes, and we are going to e-government and the website of the National Assembly. I want to say that another younger colleague last night, when I said to him: "Calm down," answered me: "But I am very sleepy, Danny! " And it wasn't the chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u561	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Bojankov? Mr. Mirchev? Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u562	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I remember here in this hall, at the end of last year, when we adopted the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, how the GERB parliamentary group brought out over a hundred wells of water to explain how we did not need machines, how we could not have machines for the next elections, how we should give up the machines at all, but because of the great public pressure they formally left some 1000 units. I remember then, Mr. Bikov was a great defender of the thesis that machines should not be, and I thought he was doing it for a single purpose from collegiate to his colleague Svetoslav Ivanov, who will very hardly carry machines on election day, and much easier to carry bags [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] because we know how GERB make elections.. their MPs bring the well prepared protocols and ballots to the sections. We also remember the chaos in Arena, Armeets, which helped all those bags that weighed on Mr. Ivanov, to be able to come into use more easily. Here I will open a clamp: Your biggest electoral and electoral manipulator Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov soon came back...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u563	Sorry, Mr. Mirchev, you can't say that! Especially in the absence of MPs!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u564	I can talk. His job is to sit here, not to be absent. He came back from a foreign country, from some snacks, and he was talking about cyber attacks. Here I will quote what Mr. Toma Bikov of GERB said at the time when we were looking at the budget on the machine voting: that he was a supporter of the machine voting, but he changed his mind because there were cyber attacks. Mr. Bikov, after your electoral Mr. Tsvetanov came back and said there would be cyber attacks, you should be an even bigger enemy of introducing machines, but you once again changed your mind, that's normal for you. I remember the time when you were going to put Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Boyko Borisov in jail when you were hanging around Mrs. Kuneva. In medicine, that's called schizophrenia. This is not a disease for which I am pleased with you is the lack of any morality. GERB lacks any morals.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u565	Mr. Mirchev, please! Please! You can't treat yourself like that and turn around like that from the stands!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u566	And what we're witnessing right now is nothing more than a political deal with the DPS, because the day started with a thousand machines and without a quorum, we're talking about three to six thousand machines, but we have a quorum, and we're about to see how the Preference is going to fall. This is your amoral deal with the DPS because you run with them because you want to manipulate the elections, fake them and steal democracy in conjunction with the DPS. That's what you are, Mr. Bikov! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u567	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. Personal explanation, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u568	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Mirchev, once again I changed my mind so I could see your face after we put in a machine vote and defeat you with it. Then let's see what you have to say.! We will introduce these three thousand machines to the European elections, we will see the results in these three thousand sections and then I will rub you in for these results by the end of the term of office of this Parliament, because it will be complete. As for moral qualifications, I have long said that with you and your party representatives, I do not discuss moral issues because you are not my criterion. [[(Voices from BSP for Bulgaria]] I just don't care what you think about it! How else can I put this?! I've explained these things to you. But I'll tell you something else. If you remember 2016 During the reign of this authoritarian regime, your party managed to win presidential elections. What is this authoritarianism that allows the opposition to win presidential elections? Know one thing, ask people who advise you: never in the last 30 years, rather always in the last 30 years the Bulgarian people have had the opportunity to overthrow someone. Always! There is no case in which the Bulgarian people wanted to overthrow someone and did not do so in democratic elections in the last 30 years, not in the last ten even. When you talk about forgeries, manipulations and so on, you must realize that you are about to break this democratic tradition, which is very fragile. And to really come authoritarianism, no matter which part of the political space from whether from the left, or from the right. But in the place of democracy really comes dictatorship. And if you keep doing that, we'll get her there! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u569	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Replies to Mr. Mirchev's statement? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u570	That was a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u571	Yeah, it was a personal explanation, and that's why I'm asking for lines. I don't see any lines. Dear Mr. Christov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u572	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As usual, we will give a slightly different look. Somehow I'm tired of starting all my speeches like this, but you don't seem to be tired of hearing them that way. Here the dispute is whether there should be, whether there should be, whether it should be 12 thousand, whether it should be 1200, whether it should be 3000 and so on. But something that somehow suited us to start with it is whether, in general, the machine voting itself is, how to say, a modern idea, i.e. whether it is a modern idea. Mr. Svilenski very nicely asked a specific question to all the MPs, only me and my colleague Takova raised our hand. I will allow myself to follow Mr. Svilensky's example and ask you: how many of you currently have a cell phone that is older than four years? [[Heckling]] Two people raised their hand. In this regard, I would like to ask purely pragmatically, at the moment I am not attacking anyone and so on, just thinking out loud and I have the honour of doing so in your presence: what are these machines that, however modern they are now, in four years' time, will be modern or at least sufficiently running both as software and as hardware? Not a chance. Now we're going to spend some money that we're risking, a large percentage of them disappearing when we buy these machines. We'll buy them and in four years we won't be able to use them. We're being run around here by some craft companies that make some machines, and we're now wondering if we should buy 12,000 of these machines. However, I am not an IT specialist, but I am sure that you, all present here, or if not all of you, are familiar with modern technologies and we are fighting this dispute just because you have to have this argument because our viewers on television will see how a dispute is going to be made about whether we will implement the legal provision and the road map from 2014, or whether we will oppose it in order to have political arguments to attack the media afterwards. Yes, we must certainly implement this legal road map, and we must introduce a machine-vote. Why shouldn't it be an electronic vote? Yeah, now you're gonna say, it can be manipulated, it can be manipulated. I ask you the question: when we pull the flash drive out of the machine in the polling section, this flash drive becomes somehow imaginary, it becomes virtual? It stands in the hands of the same people who can manipulate protocols, ballots and so on. In my work, I have had the opportunity to work and develop, or at least to commission, various projects to process databases. All major banks store their databases in international data centers that are licensed. What is the problem with e-voting databases to go to such a licensed centre that will not allow them to be manipulated subsequently? That's practical thinking, fellow Members! This is practical thinking and everything else is political speaking, which, again, I say, I understand why it is done, but it is not pragmatic. There's gonna be some money spent that, we know, most of it's gonna disappear. Personally, if you ask me, we don't have to vote not 1200, not 3000, not 1,000, and as much as the number of sections, but zero. Zero of those and go into real talking, pragmatic talking, namely for introducing electronic voting, not machine speaking. I urge you to stop because all those who spoke before me are already repeating the same thesis, we all heard this thesis. We still have a lot of work to do on this bill, so I suggest we stop talking and eventually move on to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u573	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u574	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Hristov, you obviously didn't understand the difference between engine and electronic voting. In the engine vote, as I told you earlier, it's a simple machine that's mechanical, no flash drive, no hacking. [[Replications from OP.]] There are four actions of collecting, subtraction, division and multiplication. Besides, there's no hardware, no software, he's not getting old. This machine, after it is purchased, can be used many times in May for the European elections, in October for the locals. In addition, millions of ballots are being saved. You know how it is in the law for every single party that participates in the elections, as many ballots as voters should be printed. In the mechanical machine there is a roll and the economy is huge There's no flash drive, there's no way to hack it, but there's no way to fake it. At 7:00 comes out the taboo, you have the result, the sectional committees themselves, where are nests of forgery of the protocols and making fake ballots are isolated, only with registration functions. It's dangerous on the engine vote. And not 3,000, it's got to be 12,000. This is no expense because you can repeatedly use this machine. Make one more difference between machine and electronic. The electronics can be hacked. Moreover, as colleagues from GERB say, my friend Tsvetan Tsvetanov is not here, you are giving the opportunity for hybrid attacks. Do not let, as happened in the US, Trump win with the help of Putin and Russia. Therefore: for the mechanical vote, but against the electronic vote. Thank you. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u575	Thank you, Mr. Pawnov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u576	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, my reply is very brief and is based on something radically opposite to what the Chair of the Legal Commission in the Chamber. Today, the Public Council issued an opinion to the Central Election Commission. [[GERB lines.]] Exactly to Mr. Hristov, the Public Council, who still understands from what elections are and how they are made, comes up with a positive opinion on the machine vote, in which he says: "It will allow to show the potential of the machine voting to limit the subjective factor in taking into account the results and reducing the number of invalid votes. The machine vote would optimize the work of the electoral administration, which we are so worried about during the voting process and would minimize the errors in reporting the results. As you can see, this is not about anything else, but about an extremely progressive process during the election process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u577	Here's your coat, dear Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u578	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Pawnov, with all due respect to you, mechanical is the typewriter on which maybe you can work, I can't. [[Radio, partial applause by GERB.]] All other devices, if I can call them in general, with which machine voting will take place, are digital means, whether they are connected to the Internet or not. All of you attended a demonstration of a machine, I took the liberty of calling it craftsmanship, where you have a touchscreen. There's no way he could be mechanical. Let's not kid ourselves that these machines can be more secure when someone produces them somewhere in Bulgaria. This guy who made this machine can get into it whenever and as he wants. Back to the e-vote. Then, when the database is stored in an international data center where they store their data and banks, then no one else can penetrate except the Data Centre itself. Believe me, the licences and the image these Data Centers have is much more important to them than who won the elections in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u579	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Mr. Stoinev, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u580	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is clear to everyone that if we want a transparent vote, a true vote without doubt about forgeries, we must introduce the engine vote. This is clear to absolutely everyone and this was clear a few years ago when we voted the law. The problem at the moment is that GERB and the ruling Patriots do not want the elections to be transparent and we are now trying in some way to postpone this problem in time. The very fact, ladies and gentlemen, is that for 2017 we have 294 thousand invalid ballots. Do we want to bring this number down to zero? If we want to bring it down to zero, then we really need to introduce the engine vote because, I assure you, and you understand that when the engine vote is, there is no way that the ballot can be invalid because the pen has come out of the box because it is a beak or a xx, and the person has done something else, or the committee is scratching the ballots accordingly to be invalid. It is about approximately 300,000 invalid ballots for 2017. I think it is quite normal if we want a real vote to take the engine vote. I don't understand why this delay has money in the budget. We had a big debate for a reason, not for a reason from GERB assured that money is the least of the problems, because they are also struggling. Or are they supposed to have Euro-Atlantic values, and it turns out they don't?! Well, colleagues, it turns out not! At the same time, we're being offered some kind of deal. We are offered a deal which the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is offered to GERB, and, of course, GERB accepts it. The Patriots, I don't know if you heard me, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is saying again what the agenda is - three thousand votes, three thousand machines, then six thousand machines. I don't know if anyone's paying attention to me.! They are entertaining themselves, but the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is offering three thousand machines and these three thousand machines, thanks to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, will probably be voted on and approved. That is, perhaps the state is governed by GERB and by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. The Patriots are sitting and talking again, of course. They're handing out millions of decrees for municipalities. For the Patriots I do not know what remains, but at the same time we are offered a deal and GERB agree to this deal. Why don't we do it right now?! The problem is you don't want to. You know that you are manipulating the elections, and there is nothing to be angry with us here, because the Bulgarian citizens themselves believe that the elections in Bulgaria are being manipulated. And I don't understand why we shouldn't accept these machines. We all know that they can be made very quickly. Three thousand machines? the deal between GERB and DPS. Let's see where these three thousand machines will be placed.! [[DPS lines.]] In large cities, yes, if possible throughout the region of Stara Zagora. I'm a fan of that. Will they be in the big cities?! Personally, this is happening in smaller cities where committees are easier to manipulate and will insist on being in small towns and small towns. Then there'll be six grand. Where are those six grand gonna be?! I don't know why the Patriots don't offer 6,500 or 6,200?! However, here this Parliament is governed by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and by GERB. Fellow Patriots, I don't know what you're for, except maybe consummating that power. After all, this is the truth, and you must somehow react, because some people pass the laws while you are not at all. Then you will probably be canceled and the preferential vote will still be gone. That is why we from the BSP for Bulgaria are insisting that we remember each other and from now on we introduce the machine voting completely. Colleagues, this is the most transparent way to make sure there are no invalid ballots. We know how to manipulate and how to make invalid ballots by colleagues from GERB. Three hundred thousand are the null and void ballots that were registered...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u581	Don't make such suggestions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u582	I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. ... in the last elections and I think it is shameful for a country that is European, Euro-Atlantic and in the 21st century. It is quite normal, colleagues, even if we reject the proposal of DPS and GERB, rather to unite around the BSP's proposal. Let's have machines in all sections of a hundred percent. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u583	Thank you. A line?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u584	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Stoinev, I'm very worried. You were the DPS minister, and if someone was running the DPS, it was you, and I don't know what moral right you have to be the judge of us Patriots?! We didn't know where we were. You don't know! Your MPs are talking here about a mechanical machine with a tooth wheel and a crank and an olive oil. [[Laughter and excitement.]] You don't know where you are! You don't know! That's the truth and you're going out to keep us morally right the machines! Why did you win the presidential election? What prevented you from having machines?! My concern, Mr. Stoynev, is that this is how you behave as an opposition to certain people. God forbid, if you come to power, what a miracle the Bulgarians will see! [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u585	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u586	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoinev, I completely disagree with your speech and your call to introduce the machines, hoping that they will understand you. They will not understand you, Mr. Stoinev, because if they now accept the machines to be 12 thousand, this means that all the work they have done so far, discussing amendments to the Election Code, including what quorum decisions are made, whether public registers should be introduced, whether an appeal can be appealed or not, will become meaningless. There will be rules that could falsify an election, not having the right to appeal them, and having a solution by simple majority, which belongs to the government. The machines will not allow this mechanism to enter into force. That's why they don't want them, Mr. Stoinev, that's why, not for anything else! You're wasting your efforts convincing people about the introduction of machines. It's against their interest. This is against their psyche, it is against their mentality of behavior, which mentality is only for the benefit of how to win an election and how to distribute a pie instead of how to protect people's interests.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u587	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Third line, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u588	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Stoynev, because you repeated several times that we are making deals, we are accepting proposals from the DPS. Well, we have obviously also made a deal with you because we have agreed to reject the second protocol. Was that a deal?! Where did I see you? Are you at the station? Because apparently you're in the station, too. According to this logic, the management is of BSP, DPS, United Patriarchs and GERB, and of Volya. Most probably because we accepted some proposals for them as well. Because you call us the authoritarian regime, we are such an authoritarian regime that we have 95 MPs of 240 MPs, we don't even have a full majority. Where did you see this authoritarian regime with a president, an opposition leader, who from the parliamentary tribune says we are going to fake the elections?! In what authoritarian regime does this exist in the Thirty - Fourth National Assembly or in the Thirty - Fifth National Assembly because some of us lived in those times?! I was small, but I'm sure I was. There has hardly been such a strong oppositioner as Mrs. Ninova to come out here and tell Todor Zhivkov: "You will fake the elections because you win them by 99.9%. "This is dictatorship, colleagues! If you call a deal accepting any proposals from the DPS, you should also call the adoption of proposals from the BSP again a deal with us authoritarianists. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u589	You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Stoinev. A statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u590	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm starting backwards. Dear Mr. Bikov, for the authoritarian regime, agree that you win in all Gypsy sections, GERB wins in all Gypsy sections and maybe this is the only reason you don't want the engine vote. And that's clear! It's a fact! [[Noise and lines.]] Secondly, to Mr. Angelov, see, the BSP rules openly with the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and I see nothing wrong with that, all the more so that we have achieved some outstanding results. In your government, gentlemen of Patriots who applaud when the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is receiving millions for their municipalities, and the mayors of BSP are leaving the Association of Municipalities, some of you are opening toilets along the borders. And that's the difference between you and me. I would like to conclude with this call: the best thing is for this bill to be postponed, to calm down the passions, to wait for Tuesday, if necessary at an extraordinary meeting, because the way the Legal Committee works is completely unacceptable, does not respond to the spirit of parliamentaryism, and I believe that no one is profiting from it. Either way, sooner or later machine voting, transparency will see the light of day and it will not benefit you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u591	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Here you are, dear Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u592	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, as far as I can see about ten hours we are working on a law that is very significant. Why is it significant? Because every year, when there are elections, the government tries one way or another to make an election law and in these electoral rules to introduce those desires and wills. Colleagues, today we are trying with the amendment and the amendment of the Election Code to change those gaps, those things that we have seen since the previous elections, which for one reason or another hinder the democratization of the electoral process. That's the idea, guys. The fear that has taken over you is to make sure that we do not allow all Bulgarian citizens, whether they live in Bulgaria, whether they live in Silistra, whether they live in England for one reason or another, expelled from this political table, whether they live in America, you from GERB, OP and BSP, united and did not give the opportunity to democratize the electoral rules in this part. The other thing you've united on about deals, like Mr. Stoinev I won't talk about, is that fear. You're afraid of minorities. The right side is afraid of the Roma, the left side realizes that they are afraid of the gypsies, of the environment, of that minority, which we are still trying today for one reason or another to enable every citizen who was born in this country to be able to campaign in his mother tongue. Did you unite against us? Then why didn't someone come out to say that there was a deal between you?! Did you join BSP, OP and GERB? We, with our heads down for thirty years, following democratic rules, cannot campaign. Have we told you anything?! How did you see that only the municipalities of DPS and GERB receive these funds from PMS? I saw that the municipalities of BSP received as well. Your fear is not in this, colleagues, it is your fear that if we eventually do so that we introduce a phased machine voting and there it comes out that so far, through fear, through pressure, and if someone has tried to go to manipulate the voter, to cancel, not to give the sectional committees the opportunity to handle the pens, if you want, you deal with the solamites and the cresters, you, if you want, act with your electronic system, but the issue is that all citizens are convinced that their voice, which they have given for BSP, for DPS and for GERB, is safe and gone right there. This is the democratic process, colleagues, for this is what we are fighting for today! We are not fighting for the purely Bulgarian expression "Gyeongsurat" as Mr. Valeri Simeonov says. We are not fighting for that money that I see that you are very fond of and want to take it, Mr. Stoinev, because you were also Minister of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. [[Applause from OP]] , and at the moment what you are trying to direct the arrows, the hatred, to heat the entire public against the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, to extract some minimal dividend from which you will have no benefit to society, for the unity of the nation, for the democratization of the electoral process, for the creation of that Election Code, for which we will all walk out of here with proudly raised heads. And if there's anyone else out there trying to protest, let's explain to him why we're doing it right now. You're leaving and you're putting back that fear that you're making in elections. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] That's why we're here. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms, fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u593	It's time to graduate, dear Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u594	Thank you, Mr. Christov. We're not here a center where you can direct your hatred and clear your accounts with each other when you can't make your deals! We are about democratic electoral processes that we need to introduce today into this code. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u595	Thank you. - What's the line? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u596	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Atalay, you are talking about democratic processes. The 2017 elections for the National Assembly, the last elections the four percent, the 3 million barrier of 420 thousand 524 voted 136 thousand 820 people! You've received 316 thousand votes, the O.P.. 318, willia. 145 thousand votes, just above the barrier. Do you know how many invalid voices there are? 169 thousand and 9 invalid votes in Bulgaria. Over 4%, above the barrier, with 30 thousand votes above the permissible threshold for entry into the National Assembly. It's anything but democracy. When there is a machine vote, a large part of these invalid votes will not be invalid, because the chairman of GERB or who is chairman there is usually GERB, in the last elections in the census, will not say that the hixie has been distorted lightly and respects it as a invalid voice; or that it has slightly come out of the box, but has not entered into another invalid voice again. [[Radio, GERB lines.]] The machine does not allow such subjective treatment.... they are afraid of it! I was hoping that you would support us in this proposal of ours for machine voting, but everywhere, not just the three thousand machines in the big sections where there are already difficult forgeries. The biggest forgeries are in small settlements, in small municipalities where there is a great influence of the so-called local feudals. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u597	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Mr. Stoinev, do you have a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u598	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Atalay, yes, it was a time when the Movement for Rights and Freedoms did not support nuclear power, and at the same time you had said for Unit VII. We wanted to cancel the flat tax, but because of you we didn't cancel it. It's just what coalition policies are and everyone has to comply. But everything was clear, transparent and in public! While here at the moment is something radically different, that's what we're talking about. I cannot accept being angry when facts are shown in the stands, accepting it as some kind of aggression, and whether it is a threat to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. This is not, it is more to your coalition partners, who are here on this side of the Chamber, to whom GERB do not pay any attention, comply with what you offer. And I don't know why you're offended that we're talking about a deal here! I say: why not 3500 these machines, why not 6500? Why exactly 3006, how did it come to this? Someone has to explain! Within how many minutes did this decision take?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u599	Say you're sorry to the DPS again.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u600	That's what we need to know now. But fellow Patriots on this issue are silent. We will see how they will vote. I repeat, our proposal to the BSP immediately, at any cost to have a full machine vote in all sections! I know you don't like it, colleagues, because this will prevent exactly those null and void ballots with which you de facto play and take people's votes and win elections. I'm not saying it's mass, I'm not saying it's everywhere. [[the President signals that time has run out]] But this phenomenon exists and once and for all it must be eradicated by our electoral system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u601	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u602	He speaks three times today on this text!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u603	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Atalay, my line is to make it really clear because you and Mr. Bikov and the Patriots are talking and talking about bargaining, let's say what is a bargain. It is a bargain when the meeting cannot begin in the morning, because there are 110 MPs from GERB and from the Patriots, and the others are not. The construction of the controls is on three legs.. it's gone, it's unstable. All of a sudden, at 9:30, it's 121 votes. Here's the bargain.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u604	When you make the quorum, isn't it a bargain? [[Reply from MP Yordan Tsonev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u605	No, you checked in, Mr. Tsonev. It's a bargain. And then we ask: against what? How did they get in with a report on 1,000 machines and after two hours came a report on 3000 machines? We, for having accepted the proposal to drop the protocol, as you can see, both the first and the second, and the third time, have not given a quorum for this meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u606	It's a big deal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u607	Because this National Assembly with every hour of work is working against the interests of Bulgarian citizens...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u608	Dear Mr. Svilenski, you are currently suggesting to the Bulgarian citizens something that is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u609	And no one has any interest in this working day going on, and at all... Mr. Chairman, I can still speak what I think and whether Bulgarian citizens believe me is the subject of another conversation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u610	That was necessary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u611	So don't fix me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u612	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Atalay, you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u613	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, thanks for the lines. In energy, there is an expression of a replaced phase of thinking. I was talking about democratisation of the electoral process. You're talking to me about haggling. When you find out what I've said from this tribune, after you move your phase, it could probably be after we put an end to these debates. And to think, and to come to the conclusion that I told you, and it was to work, to democratize electoral processes, to make people go to vote freely, calmly, without fear. Because anyone who falls in opposition accuses the government of causing fear, but when you are in power and comes to the shoulder of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, then you see that the Movement is not like the people who make bargaining, but like those who stabilize the state. Colleagues, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, if the first time has not been registered in the morning, the second time has been registered, not from the assumption of bargaining, but from the assumption that we are elected MPs and as MPs elected by the people, to create those laws that will benefit them. Otherwise, it's the easiest. I welcome your vision, I welcome your visits, and you will see our program. Hopefully, after all, we will form a common vision for Bulgaria and not rely on the concept of Krasimir Karakachanov for some of the minorities called so-called. [[Radio.]] Colleagues, let's get back to the debate. Mr. Hristov, I propose that we put an end to the debate on this very text and move on to the following texts, because after six or seven paragraphs comes the proposal, which I think will be useful for Bulgaria to adopt, again related to the engine vote, and whoever wants then, let him take the floor again. I think that the opposition has already spoken, especially from those in power today. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It's a good thing Mr. Kirilov isn't in the room, so the debate and the vote are going well.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u614	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u615	Don't let him in the room. He'll make another mistake. Thank you. [[Happy tidings.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u616	Please. If you'll allow me, Mr. Atalay, I'll take that as an update. Colleagues, are there any other people who would like to speak? Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u617	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It's a purely legal moment. It says here, "If the section designated for engine voting, the question is: who determines? It does not define the legislator, it does not define the National Assembly. In this case, Bulgarian citizens are left at the mercy of the administration. She will say who, although by law everyone has the right to vote by machine. The administration will decide who will be so lucky to actually vote with a machine and who will not. As the debate took place in the spirit of the delegitimation of the electoral process, on mutual charges who is more guilty of this delegitation, colleagues, put yourself in our place. You were just talking about France, about how in France people did this and that. As a lawyer, I also tell you, as someone who has lived in another country, such a bill has been adopted for years, such changes are the result of years of discussions and work by experts. In Bulgaria this was done overnight. Although the Code was adopted years ago, it wasn't until last night that the experts thought about where they were going to pick up 12,000 machines. Say with your hand to the heart: is it professional and responsible for the election process to think yesterday, until the night, where were we going to put the electoral machines? And think about it: if such changes and the cancellation of democratic rights, the cancellation of a preferential vote, the annulment of acts that become inexcusable if this had happened in France, and it was voted on a committee of five people who were half asleep at night, five people who decided on their knees what to be and not to be, how would French citizens react?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u618	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u619	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Since again the talk was made in bulk. a few words ago Mr. Stoynev accused us that because as an accusation it sounded that in all Gypsy sections we won. Not that it hurt so much to say this, but it's a symptom of how you make things bigger and how you generalize them without them being true. And I'll give you examples. The Presidential elections in 2016, which you believe are the only fair elections in the last ten years, held during the reign of GERB, in Samokov, in the Roma neighborhood, in the 47 votes for the candidate of the authors of GERB Tsetska Tsacheva, and 1411 votes [[(noise, lines and shouts by GERB:]] for our esteemed Mr. President Radev. One thousand four hundred eleven votes! Are those voices bought? Have you heard GERB come out three days after the elections and say: they bought the Gypsy votes in Samokov. You didn't hear because no one said it. Nobody said that! On the contrary, we said three days after the elections: we congratulate the newly elected Mr. President and hope that he will be a united nation. In 2017, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. There are 518 for BSP and 28 for GERB, organized elections during the official government: Samokov 136 votes for GERB, 654 votes for BSP; in Asenovgrad are 518 for BSP and 28 for GERB. [[Noise and lines from GERB: "Bravo! "]] Then charges for Mr. Genov buying votes! [[Noise and lines.]] And then we didn't say you bought those votes because we didn't have any proof of that. But we didn't cry that someone faked our election! On the contrary, we went out and said: in 2016, we were responsible for losing, we did not understand something. We have not felt anything in the Bulgarian society. And that's why we won 2017, not because of the forgery. Because if you are saying that there were forgeries then, please contact Mr. Radev, he was then ruling this country and he had control over the sections, on top of that with the Central Election Commission elected during your reign. Therefore, once again, I will call on you to be more moderate in this debate, when it comes to the Election Code and elections. Let's at least be specific! There is no harm in criticising every text, there is no harm in expressing a position, but to say that the presence of machines or their impropriety is already a forgery. There are countries where there is no machine voting and it is not about forgery. It's not a forgery in itself, it's a technical method. Yeah, he can be good, he can have some risks, flaws, pros, cons and so on, but it's a technological process. This is not a political issue in itself. And here political statements are being made and the legitimacy of the electoral process is being challenged.. something that really reaches unprecedented levels. The bad news is that this is part of your election campaign, which will continue until the European elections. That's worse! And then it'll go on when you explain how you lost the election because they were faked. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria "How do you know?"]] And you still won't understand why you lost them! Just because they don't like you. They don't like you! Not because of the machines. [[(Applause and shouting from GERB:]] Because people don't want fanatics in power. They don't want to be run by scandalous people. They want peace. That's what people want. They want stability, they want predictability, they don't want swaying on one side of the other, revolutionaries, Madourization, as some say. [[Noise, lines, laughter.]] They don't want Madourization! They don't want elections, like Mr. Pawnov suggested we make them like we did in Venezuela. Well, that's not what they want! They want to go, if they don't like management, vote against it. It's happened in where-where even more stable majoritys. In 2001, the management of the UDF was a full majority, 137 MPs in parliament, judiciary, whatever, and finally the NDSV by a majority in parliament! Then who stopped the Bulgarian people? Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u620	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. First line of Mr. Popov, second line of Mr. Kutev [[noise, lines, whistling]] And Mr. Ivanov. I wrote them down. That's how they were announced. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u621	Dear Mr. Bikov, I am sorry that I am going to get into this, but I recently have a habit with all the people I talk to about politics, when they say: "We are doing this, you are doing this!" I am asking: "Who are we?" "To be honest, my personal political experience shows that including in system parties like BSP often it is not very easy to determine who we are." However, it is you who is giving me justice in this way to say: "We are winning, you have lost, I want to ask you: and when you won in 2017, did you win in 2014? You! Where were you in 2014, where were you before that? You're not there! And who are we, who are you? Who exactly are you, you personally? You guys were in 2014. On which side of the election? Well, then how do you talk to me about BSP insecurities? [[Noise and lines.]] I've been involved in the last ten choices as a member of the headquarters, I've made a lot of choices.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u622	He didn't say anything like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u623	Don't call, Mr. Ivanov! If you'd like to take the floor. I've made a lot of choices. In the meantime, we, at least part of us, have always been on one side of the barricade. We've always talked about things, we've lost choices, we've won elections. You specifically on which side of the barricade were you in 2017 and in 2014 that you gave justice and moral assessments? Who are we and who are you? I don't want to remind you of any specific statements. As you can see, I'm tolerant enough not to! I assume you have an answer to that.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u624	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Second line in the manner of conduct. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go. You have the floor, Mr. Atalay. [[Noise and lines.]] There's a line? I apologize. It's starting to get hard for me, too. Okay. Mr. Popov, Mr. Ivanov [[Noise and lines.]] And a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u625	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Bikov! In 2017 the difference between GERB and BSP is 150 thousand votes, the President is over one million. So much for buying votes. You decide who bought $1 million and who bought $150,000? Or at least give money to these people for the election after all, and that's the way you want to earn it by writing a code! That's what you're doing right now. Don't compare the President with the parliamentary elections! And yes, there are countries where there is a paper vote, but there are people who believe in their politicians. When do you put bars on windows in a house? When there are thieves outside. That's why we're offering you an engine vote. These are those, figuratively speaking, bars against this vote that you predict here and which will become in the Election Code. Absolute lack of any rules! Absolutely not! And you will have a professional victory. That's your goal! This is your goal and you do it every day, constantly, in all laws and now, lastly, in the Election Code. And with regard to the gypsy voices, these two sections, where you quoted them, must hurt you very much that you lost there. Apparently, you didn't get the exact numbers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u626	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u627	Mr. Chairman! Colleague Bikov, I took this line, prompted by your speech, namely what people want. Well, people have been showing it for so many years....the democratic elections! What system we will choose and what replacement and at what stage we will replace the machines will see that the result will again be tragic for the party on the left. I don't know why they come out here and explain the leaders of this party's headquarters? Do they not trust their election headquarters so much that they want to condemn the elections from now on as well-known? Obviously, such confidence and self-esteem have as leaders and organizers of the electoral process! However, one other thing brings me back to your speech, namely: what do people want? They want stability! They want a predictable one! [[Noise and lines.]] And that's what people want in order to raise their incomes, as they've been increasing in recent years. Because we see investors coming to Bulgaria, we see international institutions and rating agencies, which in the last two years have raised Bulgaria's credit rating three times from perspective to positive, and it is precisely because it is not only the economic environment that is stable, but also the political one. That's why the colleagues on the left who replicated you earlier couldn't express themselves and say, really answer, why this difference I would ask you again, because I couldn't hear the difference well from 20 to 1000 votes, and there those citizens who voted, were they so democratic in belief towards the representative of the BSP that they had raised as president, or because of any other beliefs? Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u628	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u629	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear citizens! [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Kutev, it's a fundamental question who are we, who are you? First of all, I think that we are all Bulgarians, so that the division of........... is under duress of the democratic system..... in different parties. If your question is where I was, as was the question, since 1996, when my conscious years were, then I was 16 years old, I was always part of the right hand. Always! [[Noise and lines.]] Always! By the way, one of the reasons is your party, because then my family, which is an ordinary family, lived with about ten dollars a month. That's how we lived. And since then, I've always been part of the right. After that, I was a conservative believer. My right hand has stopped being both right and conservative! It's gone! And now he has his right hand. Again. And that's GERB. I'm back in the right, I'm not in the BSP. Maybe Mrs. Nino 1996 was in the right hand, now in the left. I accept that, too. Churchill was like that! He was both liberal and conservative. I've only been to the right. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] Well! About the official victory and Mr. Popov's cue to more data. In the Faculty of the Faculty, 3 sections won GERB, 13 sections won BSP. They're bought, aren't they?! Again, we're not discussing this, that's not the point. [[Noise and lines.]] That's not the point. We'll see who's winning, who's losing. My appeal to you and I don't want to pick a fight because this debate is really different. It's not a question of making jokes or making fun of who I am and who I am. I know you don't love me. And I don't care about that. [[Noise and lines.]] The important thing is that we still have some red lines that we don't cross. And we begin to cross them not only with regard to the Election Code. We cross lines almost every day now and this will not bring good to you, not us, and especially the Bulgarian citizens. That's the problem. What we're talking about here is hardly that important. For Mr. Ivanov, I would say that as always, he is objective. [[Applause from GERB.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u630	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. [[Noise and lines.]] Before I give the floor for a personal explanation, Mr. Stoinev, before I give the floor to Mr. Atalay, I will read you the parliamentary control message for February 15, 2019, Friday. I. Question Debates Debates on the asking of MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on the policy of the Ministry on the implementation of electronic wineries. II. Questions and Questions Answered: - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer 5 questions from the MPs Ivelina Vasileva, Dimitar Boychev and Diana Savateva; Stefan Burgev; Stanislav Vladimirov; Veska Nencheva; and Sevim Ali; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer one question from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer three questions from the MPs Donka Simeona, two questions; and Irena Anastasova and one question from the National Representative Tanya Petrova. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question from the National Representative Vasil Antonov; and 27 questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the MPs Ivan Dimov Ivanov and Dimitar Danchev; and to a question from the MPs Dragomir Stoinev and Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on two questions with written answer from the MPs Stanislav Vladimirov and Lyubomir Bonev; and Milena Damyanova; - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to three questions from the MPs Dimitar Boychev and Diana Savatev; Georgi Mihailov and Ilian Timchev; and Ivan Chenchev, and three questions with written answer from the MPs Donka Simeonova, Violeta Jelev and Georgi Gokov; Mikhail Hristov and Teodora Halacheva, and Valentina Naydenova; and one question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Stefan Burgeev; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Rumen Porozhanov on three issues from the MPs Rumen Georgiev, Svetla Bachvarova, Nikolai Ivanov, Ivan Genov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov to a question written by the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Violeta Jeleva; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov to two questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Krasimir Yankov. Due to the absence of MPs for respectable reasons, the answers to a question from the MP Nikolay Tishev to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova are postponed. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister for Environment and Water Neno Dimov will not participate. Due to the use of sick leave, the Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Affairs Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will not participate. Moving on, fellow Members. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you are, dear Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u631	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I couldn't understand if you'd called the meeting that you'd read so many names...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u632	I have to admit, I really wanted to.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u633	And it made me uncomfortable and I got off the stand, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u634	No, I just have to read the questions about parliamentary control before 6:00.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u635	It's the way it's supposed to be. Mr. Chairman, I have a special respect for you. I know you're very serious about being a strict person, but when the debate on this point is proposed to end and you then start reading the announcements for the next day, people are under the impression that we will close the meeting. My request is that you don't say another word until you put my procedural proposal to the vote, because some people have already come to... where is Mr. Churchill here? Mr. Churchill, I've seen you as a liberal. [[Radio.]] You often visited the DPS, Kasim Dahl, for a long time you carried his bag. [[Radio.]] I'm gonna have to ask you...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u636	Mr. Atalay, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u637	I would ask you not to sit in Mr. Kirilov's seat to you, Mr. Chairman, once again very seriously. Colleagues, if you want to be serious, let us follow the rules of the National Assembly. Put to the vote my proposal, my procedure, if it doesn't pass, then let's go, if you don't want Churchill, if you want De Gaulle to come out who wants to come out. Let them present themselves from this tribune.. have such an opportunity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u638	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. I'll give you the floor for sure, Mr. Stoinev, for a personal explanation after the vote. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Ramadan Atalay. Vote 151 MPs: for 101, against 47, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. You have the floor for a personal explanation, dear Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u639	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, I do not see my esteemed Mr. Bikov because he said one statistic, GERB applauded him, but indeed this is perhaps the exception to the general rules and principles, because in two sections BSP were before you. It must have hurt very, very much. But when I look especially and Mr. Hristov knows, I hope that Mr. Bikoff from his brief modest, creative experience, staying in Stara Zagora knows that Lozenets, for example, has about...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u640	One hundred thirty-six, seven and eight sections in which you always win.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u641	...seven sections. And in all these seven sections of the last elections GERB are the first political force, provided GERB de facto collapsed their houses, but the Roma saw and believed in the Euro-Atlantic values of the political party GERB. Isn't that right, colleagues? That is why these results are really explained. Now, colleagues, if you want the Bulgarian people to want stability and to believe, it is primarily to believe in those parties that respect the laws.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u642	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u643	It's a personal explanation. Because the most important thing is to obey the laws. When you have a law that says you have to have a machine vote, you have to have it. When there is a law that states that there must be a change of the Central Election Commission, there must be one.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u644	Mr. Stoinev, please enter into a personal explanation to Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u645	Everything else, honourable colleagues from GERB, are completely free writings from which you do not win at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u646	Thank you. In the manner of conduct, Mr. Manev, come in. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u647	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, the personal explanation is for me, and also by the Rules of Procedure in this Parliament, it is hardly involving spreading lies from this tribune. [[Noise and lines.]] I don't think the personal explanation is the front for making suggestions from this tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u648	Use other words, please, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u649	So take an attitude in such violations......... and seek only the provocation in the speech of our colleagues, Mr President, especially when it comes to your city.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u650	As you can hear, I reacted because... Personal explanation and you come in, Mr. Pawnov. [[Replications between the National Representative Manoil Manev and the MPs from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Manev, please sit down! Please, Mr. Manev, sit down and don't get into a fight! We're listening, Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u651	Dear Mr Churchill, I can't see you. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u652	I'm sorry, Mr. Pawnov, if that's how you're gonna turn into your personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u653	He himself said it was the Bulgarian Churchill because he changed parties.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u654	That doesn't give you any reason...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u655	Mr. Bikov, you are not the Bulgarian Churchill, because you are a political pompal. [[Radio.]] You were at Kasim Dahl. Now you don't know where you are...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u656	Mr. Pawnov, please...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u657	You're calling us, but you're not GERB, you're a civil quota.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u658	Personal explanation should not include insults, epithets, and qualifications.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u659	I also want to tell you that you have no information. The machine vote in Venezuela was introduced by Hugo Chavez and I was then an election observer. Hugo Chavez won the election by 78% and no one protested. Last year in May Maduro won the election and when...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u660	Mr. Pawnov, you are far from the personal explanation...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u661	... Trump decided that he had to take it down, the problem is that there is a lot of oil in Venezuela.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u662	I'll take your word for it, Mr. Pawnov. You're not on the subject at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u663	So we can continue with you, Mr. Churchill. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u664	Thank you. Mr. Pawnov, sit down! Colleagues, I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on the Commission proposal to create a new paragraph, which will be number 11, with a text, according to the Commission proposal. They voted 128 MPs for 77, against 32, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u665	Which Report are we working on? And if we are working on this report, we have one proposal, Mrs. Nino, which is dropping out, and the Commission does not support the proposal, and only after that we are going, the Commission supports, does not support and creates a new 11. We haven't voted that out yet.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u666	Just a minute. [[Declarations between the President and the rapporteur Daniel Kirilov.]] Mr. Ermenkov, we did the right thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u667	Mr. President, I ask you very much for a re-vote, and once again I would like you to explain to the Members of the National Assembly what we are voting on to make it clear where we are, why we are, because of these disputes that we have been having so far, from this way of making reports with additional sides and uploaded from one to another, we have lost orientation. So I'm asking you one more time, let's reschedule, but let's know what you can explain if you can't, at least Mr. Kirilov can do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u668	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Kirilov for an explanation? But we are already working on the main report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u669	That's what I said when I reported it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u670	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Re-vote the Commission proposal to create a new § 11 with a text according to the Commission's main report. They voted 153 MPs for 100, against 51, abstention 2. The offer is accepted. Procedure, dear Mr. Kutev. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u671	Dear Madam President, I made the procedure that is related to exactly what is happening at the moment 40 minutes ago. I have never seen such a vote with the two reports before. That's when I proposed to you. I didn't want a break for the band. What I wanted back then was for the Commission's collaborators to take the two reports to sum up in one. For me, in those 40 minutes, the two reports could have been collected and we could be working on one at the moment. This transfer of texts from one to the other, I say it again, against the same text in one report says that the Commission supports it, the other says that the Commission does not support it. Against the same text here in one place it says you want a thousand, and on the other you want three thousand machines. You can't work like this. This National Assembly has never worked this way. This is an absolute insult to the way the National Assembly works. Make sure that with a break or without a break, the Legal Committee finally makes a meaningful report on which to work, and as long as we have transferred the texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u672	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. I will report whether we are working on the main report or on the additional report. Mr. Kirilov, please continue reading on the main report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u673	The vote under paragraph 10, which becomes 11, in respect of art. 206, para. 1 of the main report, colleagues. We're moving on to art. 212. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u674	If you keep quiet, we'll be able to navigate. Guys, there's a lot of noise in the room. Keep an eye on what the rapporteur says, and I think things are gonna work out. Let's be calm!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u675	Paragraph 10 of the Additional Report, Members, as regards art. 212.. We have an importer text. Proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: Paragraph 10 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 10, which becomes § 12: ................................................................................... In art.212, para. is created. 5. A machine vote is not produced in polling stations with less than 300 voters when voting with a mobile electoral box, at polling stations in hospitals, old people's homes and other specialized institutions for providing social services, at polling stations of vessels under Bulgarian flag and at polling stations outside the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u676	Statements? I can't see. [[Heckling]] Procedure? Come in for a procedure, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u677	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Today is Valentine's Day, Trifon Zarezan. It is 6:00 p.m., the vineyards have not been abandoned because of these discussions today. I wonder if we're human, don't we have women or men?! Tonight's still a holiday. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u678	Quiet down, everyone!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u679	Nothing imposes this atrocity that we do to ourselves today. On behalf of our parliamentary group, I propose that the meeting be suspended, that we continue tomorrow or at an extraordinary meeting on Tuesday. What we're doing is completely unnecessary right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u680	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. I'll put your proposal to the vote. Please vote on the proposal made by Mr. Vigenin. Vote 149 MPs: 63, against 58, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u681	Madam President, honourable Members! I came out this morning with two reports in my hand. The third one who came, I don't have which hand to hold him with anymore.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u682	We're working on the additional report now.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u683	There is no basic text, there is no additional text, we are working on a second reading of the Law amending the Election Code. Believe me, the entire parliamentary group that is behind me is very difficult to explain which text we are currently voting for and to constantly look at the one protocol that was completed last night at 12:30.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u684	Mr. Milkov, please get to the point! This topic has already been heard several times by your colleagues in the manner of conduct. Let's get to the point of § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u685	Please don't make me suffocate during my speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u686	I'm just pointing you in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u687	Thanks for pointing me in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u688	Otherwise, there will be a procedure in the manner of conduct, if I do not be so precise.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u689	My speaking time is running out right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u690	One minute, I'll give you more. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u691	Dear colleagues! In the many speeches just now regarding machine voting, we heard about the privacy of some colleagues, about party deals of others, emotions, and many interesting things. I'll pay attention to one thing. There's money in the engine voting budget! A fact that has learned several times, first in the vote on the budget. Now we understand that it is still possible for spring, for the first elections to have 3000 pieces, which means that it is possible to make them. It remains absolutely misunderstood why you are canceling the principle that is currently in the Law, namely the ubiquitous one, that there should be a machine in each section and that, as colleagues suggest, it should be only the machine. Because when there's a paper and a pen, you do the tricks. When there's no paper and pen, there's a machine, there's no magic. [[Heckling]] A hundred, 110 and 120 times I'm going to tell you in the hope that you'll finally give some logical answer: why can spring have 3000 machines, and there's money for 12 400 and it's not 12 400? Why do we take texts an hour at a time? The acceptance of 3,000, 6000 is a bargaining chip. There is money for 12 people said clearly yesterday that they can produce 12, as long as we tell them in time. And we'll have an hour at a time! [[Noise and lines.]] So, machine voting in each section, removing the leaves and pen and this will be an element of the fair elections in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u692	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches, colleagues? I don't see any other speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote first the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 137 MPs: 42, against 62, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the editorial of § 10, which becomes § 12. They voted 136 MPs: 97 against 39 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kirilov, please proceed.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u693	What report?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u694	Mr. Kirilov will inform you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u695	Madam President, honourable Members, on the main report! Please, on the main report! [[Single applause.]] This is § 11 in respect of art. 213 We have an importer text, we have a proposal from Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 11 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u696	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u697	I apologize, Madam President, but I have a question for Mr. Kirilov. I really don't understand, I guess I'm confused, but we just voted § 12 and now we're back to § 11?!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u698	It's an old numbering, it'll be renumbered.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u699	I mean, she's old, and how do we do both? I'm telling you, by downloading the protocols, you can't take anything out! We're gonna have to do this whole meeting over again. This thing goes into court and falls in court without me being a lawyer. Mr. Kirilov, I don't know how you confuse these things. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u700	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 11 of the Main Report. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] They voted 116 MPs: 114, against 2 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Tsonev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u701	Thank you, Madam President. As far as questions arise, however: from which text, by which report, I would like to ask the President of the Commission, who reports.. he correctly communicates on the Basic or Additional Report, to communicate the paragraphs as appropriate by importer, with the proposals. No numbering shall be communicated to the new paragraphs. This is the work of those who form the law after it is passed. There is no way in the course of the adoption of the Law which paragraph takes place two forwards or two backwards, because new texts appear in the course of the Law. My proposal is this: so that there is no ambiguity, the new paragraph will be numbered as follows.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u702	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. We're moving on. Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u703	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! In connection with Mr. Tsonev's procedure, I stress that I always seek to follow the signature of the report, as by importer, so that we can, first of all, follow the parliamentary practice, second of all, have sufficient data to navigate with regard to specific texts. We proceed to the next provision in which to support Mrs Cornelia Ninova's proposal on the main report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u704	Do we have to watch paragraph 12?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u705	Madam President, Mr. Ermenkov is not listening. According to the basic report, colleagues, § 11 of the basic report in respect of art. 213. You notice that I always attach the paragraphs to the articles of the Law. [[Reply.]] Excuse me, § 12 of the Basic Report in respect of Art. 214 "Instruction text'. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 12 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u706	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 12 on the main report. They voted 115 MPs: for 85, against 4, abstention 26. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u707	Proposal by the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on the main report. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 13 or with the corresponding renumbering: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 215, para. 1, t. 7 is amended as follows: "7." the form of the minutes of the selection panel; the factory number of the minutes shall be entered in the minutes for the transmission and acceptance of the electoral papers and materials under para. 4; if there is a difference in the factory numbers of the individual lists of the minutes, this circumstance shall be described; the form of the minutes shall be transmitted sealed in an envelope in such a way that only its factory number can be seen; the envelope shall be stamped and signed by the members of the regional or municipal electoral commission and printed after the election day has ended, the census of votes and the draft of the minutes;
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u708	Statements? I don't see any speeches. We are voting for the creation of a new § 12 which the Commission proposes on the basic report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u709	They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. You're welcome, dear Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u710	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, since we have been in plenary for more than five hours, I propose on behalf of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u711	Second procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u712	Dear Mr. Chairman, once again related to the holiday, I suggest something that is clear. The rapporteur has just read § 13, and Mrs Karayancheva has read § 12. This is absolutely unacceptable in this House! You have to understand that all of this makes sense. For this half hour, while we're resting, give the Legal Committee a clean bill of health and come up with a summary protocol. What you're doing is beyond any parliamentaryism. And it's important! Do you understand? I told you before: if citizens were doing their job the way we are doing it right now, this country would close in two days.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u713	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. I'm calling off the job in 15 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u714	The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the Chamber to continue with the work.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u715	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposal of the MPs Volen Siderov, Desisslav Chukolov and Nikolay Alexandrov is created a new paragraph:
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u716	Mrs. Alexandrova, let's just say this is based on the main report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u717	Thank you, Madam President. Before reading it, just to say that the Commission is proposing a new paragraph to be renumbered. From now on, we ask that the paragraphs be renumbered. A new §... is being created: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 218 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: In the election for MPs in front of the electoral room and voting booths, a panel shall be placed on which the names of the candidates of the parties on the regional candidate lists are written in the same size, type and format. The lists are arranged according to their order in the ballot. A circle shall be placed in front of the name of each candidate on the candidate list of a party, including the consecutive number of the candidate with which he is registered by the relevant electoral committee on the relevant regional candidate list. 2. A new para is being created. 5. In the elections for Members of the European Parliament in front of the electoral room and voting booths, a panel shall be placed on which the names of the candidates of the parties and coalitions on candidate lists are written. After the name of each candidate on the coalition candidate list, the name of the party proposed by the coalition concerned shall be indicated. The names of applicants who are nationals of another Member State of the European Union but are not Bulgarian citizens shall be written in Cyrillic form in the way they are written in their application for registration as candidates. The board referred to in this paragraph shall be of content and in form as provided for in para. 4. 3. Previously on AMC's... 5 and 6 become respectively. 6 and 7. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u718	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the unsupported proposals of the MP Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Vote 65 MPs: 8 against 9, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u719	Proposal by the MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid on the main report establishing a new paragraph: A new §... is being created: ????????????????? Article 3 is replaced by the following: 218a: Art. 218a (1) Two on-line surveillance cameras shall be placed at the premises of each selection panel and the first of them shall cover the entrance of the room and the second shall cover the working place of the members of the selection committee. (2) The installation of the cameras shall be in a way that does not violate the secret of the vote and their scope shall not cover voting booths. (3) The Central Election Commission shall provide and provide technical online surveillance throughout the election day including listing of ballots and shaping of relevant protocols. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u720	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid. They voted 102 MPs: 12, against 8, abstention 82. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u721	Paragraph 13 of the Commission's basic report. Importer text. Proposal by the MP Gergana Stefanova and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 13 is amended as follows: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 219 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: Each selection section shall be equipped with video recording. The video recording shall be included at the end of the election day under art. 220 and shall be excluded after counting the votes, drawing up the minutes and packing of election papers and materials by the selection panel. The video is broadcast live on the site of the Regional Election Commission, respectively to the Municipal Election Commission. Video cameras must be directed in such a way as to cover the work of all members of the polling section at all times. The records shall be kept for a period of four years and, in the event of disputes, until they have been resolved. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 13 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u722	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Gergana Stefanova and a group of MPs. They voted 113 MPs: 41, against 7, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 13. They voted 110 MPs: 82, against 3, abstention 25. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u723	Proposal by the Parliamentary Representative Anna Alexandrova on the Commission's main report. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Hamid Hamid by the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: The decisions of the Central Election Commission under para 2 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1, t. 1, 2 and 3 may be appealed before the Supreme Administrative Court in accordance with Article 1. 58.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u724	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 13, proposed by the Commission. They voted 120 MPs: for 89, against 31, there is no abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u725	Madam President, we are now moving on to the Commission's Additional Report, which proposes to create a new § 14, but I propose that they be renumbered as they overlap: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 250, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 247, t. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u726	Statements? I can't see. I am voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 14, which will be renumbered. Vote 117 MPs: 74 against 1, abstention 42. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u727	We now return to the Main Report. Paragraph 15, the proposal of the MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 15 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u728	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 15. [[Noise and lines.]] We're calling off the vote, fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u729	Madam President, please excuse me and let us vote on § 14 on the main report I will report because I accidentally missed it. Paragraph 14, the text of the importer of the proposal of the MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 261, para. 1 the following additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 is added at the end, which may be up to 100. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 is finally added with the number 100 added in front of it
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u730	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Zarkov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u731	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Reporter, it's okay to be confused. It's just inhumane work for a long time, and you were one of the ones sitting yesterday till midnight. Get to the point. One of the requests that were made by the importers when they proposed in mid-December amendments to the Election Code was to oppose what they call in the motives of the Then, even on the day when they proposed their decision, which at the beginning was to remove the number of the party and remain only the number of preferences, they began to offer other alternative options. It has been two months, no proposal has been made in writing until yesterday to the Commission, or today rather to the Commission, the people's representative Hamid reminded Mr. Kirilov of his promise and he made this proposal on his feet. The proposal states that by 100 will be the parties, over 100, i.e. with a unit in front of the numbers, will be the preferences. Why do I think that's wrong? Firstly, the so-called 15/15" error occurred for the first time five years ago when the preferential vote was first introduced.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u732	It's not the first time. Read it, boys.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u733	Since then, votes have been... Mr. Lazarov, this is the stand that speaks. Madam President?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u734	Please, colleagues, do not replicate the speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u735	Thank you. That's when we made that mistake. Over time, people who had the same number as the one who fell on their party were also campaigning on what makes it absolutely impossible to say whether it was a mistake or just a result of the campaign. Second and foremost, for each such rule it takes time and people learn to vote with it. Both voters and election participants begin to learn, that is, we. This time you don't give it to people, but you do. But something worse, let's say that such a problem exists and we may be looking for a solution. Why is this not the right decision? Because it does not take into account one of the major problems of our electoral process, namely the large number of invalid ballots. The more complicated the ballot, the more likely there will be mistakes. My great concern, honourable Members, who are proposing this proposal, is that we will prevent one mistake from creating another kind of error that we cannot predict today, but which will most likely happen. And third, which makes me not to support this proposal, it seemed as if it was the first step to predict a specific attitude towards the preferential vote that must be made as complex as possible, as unattractive as possible, with as little sense as possible, as we will see a little further in the Election Code. For all these reasons, we at the BSP will support the proposal of Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid, the importing text to be rejected, and we will not support the Commission's proposal to set up on foot, Adhok rules that will further complicate the ballot and, I repeat, will create new mistakes, new phenomena that will be dealt with, I am sure, new national meetings, as this has no future. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u736	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? Mr. Karadayi, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u737	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Zarkov, it is with the proposed text that one such problem is being solved, which you referred to is about the invalid votes. When campaigning with the numbers corresponding to the number of parties, those looking for the preference, the voter chooses party 2 and candidate 8 for example, however, notes This is the main error, the main statistic of invalid votes. The model proposed by Mr. Tsonev and Mr. Hamid, I think it is the one that solves this issue in relation to the minimization of the invalid voices. Indeed, you are right that in relation to preferences, the invalid voices that we produce have increased more than once. It is for this purpose that these proposals are also being made, and I believe that they will largely resolve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u738	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Second line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u739	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Karadaye, thank you for the line. You are a man who knows very well the election process and the Election Code in relation not only to your political existence, but that you were also a member of this committee, and in better times, I could say. [[Laughter and excitement in GERB and OP.]] I cannot deny that there is logic in what you say, but it seems to me that the large number of invalid votes came from the fact, and would have been reinforced by the fact that the original proposal to drop the number in front of the parties would have resulted in many people voting only with a preference, for the simple reason that they were used to voting with numbers. And there will be numbers, numbers will appear not only because of the lot, but because of the campaigns it's been running. However, it bothers me that this 100th thing will not have time to have to. It will not be necessary in the practice of the electoral process and will lead to a tide of preference, to more difficult preferences, but this is a debate that we will be having in a moment...... whether it is good or bad. In my opinion, we have enough objective prerequisites to think that this is a good thing. Unfortunately, we were not put in the conditions to have this debate seriously. We are placed in conditions to discuss it at 7:15, after 40 hours of intensive work. The result of this is that in the Bulgarian electoral process the ballots were all colorless, colorless, with squares, with rhombus, with teas and no teas, and the problems of the electoral process remain the same. That is why I appeal for the permanence of legislation. Since we don't have a frankly better solution, let's give time to those who aren't perfect with the practice to clean up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u740	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u741	Madam President, honourable Members! I am well-meaning to ask the importers: if I am the tenth on the list of a particular party, who will my preferential number be, 110?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u742	110.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u743	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u744	On the contrary, you have recorded that my preferential number will be 10 010.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u745	Is that how we did it?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u746	Sorry, that's how you did it. You're in a hurry again. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u747	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u748	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor to remind you that the original intention of § 14 was not only to solve the problem 15/15, as it became popular, but to solve another problem related to voting not for numbers, but to vote for parties, for ideas, for personalities, something which, unfortunately, now the extremely perfidious technology of buying and motivating in the second way of votes often calls into question. We, the United Patriarchs, signed the original draft of the law with this idea and insist on it, which is why we call on the MPs to reject both Mr. Tsonev and Mr. Hamid's proposal for a correction and to vote on the original version, which not only solves the problem 15/15, but also creates a more favourable environment for fighting buys and the related vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u749	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u750	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor on this point, because if the importers were referring to the fact that the preferences start at 101, they should not forget that there are many parties in Bulgaria. Imagine if 101 parties are registered, what happens then, as recorded at the moment? There's plenty of parties registered, aren't there? Very well we must account for this text whether to vote, remain the old one, or accept our proposal, which is to drop the number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u751	Thank you, dear Mr. Sabanov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u752	Dear Mr. Sabanov, I still hope that the times will not return with more than 100 parties to run, although you may be right in principle. I use the form of a replica to propose a solution to the problem that Milko Nedyalkov posed. In my opinion, it is real and can be solved simply, instead of adding a number 100 to it, you write with an added number of one. And now another question is that we can change this number not to be one if you hold on to something else.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u753	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Second line? Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u754	I, to the editorial of colleague Sabanov, propose the following: 2 read like this: 4 an added number 100 to it shall be added at the end.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u755	Thank you. A hole, Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u756	Dear Madam President, it is for this reason that we propose dropping the numbers so that all the accounts from each of the different figures and different numbers do not become so confused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u757	Thank you, dear Mr. Sabanov. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u758	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I'll be brief. This text made sense this morning when the principle of importers was that machine voting would not be applied as a principle, but would only be applied in 1000 sections. The sections were 12,400, and so for others we had to arrange a book "how not to confuse people. " We adopted it during the day, you adopted it.... and it quickly introduced the machine vote, not fast enough as we believe, fast enough as you do, but it is fast.. 3000, 6000 this year. Why should rules that have been applied for years be touched, we say on the principle of the durability of legislation. People aren't stupid. We are talking about applying two more choices if you are right that the third then all sections will be only with machines. Why touch the rule that applies only this year when people were constantly showing themselves how to vote properly? Therefore, on the principle of the permanence of legislation, of the change in your attitude to machine voting, I suggest that the text be removed and that we do not touch the rules that are currently in place.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u759	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u760	Dear Mr. Milkov, just to ask you to add one more argument to this, why drop what is proposed by the Commission, because soon we will go to § 17 on the old report, where the preferences become so that it can be valid, the candidate must have received actual votes no less than the regional electoral quota, that is, a term. Either way, whatever you write here, whatever preferences you write, they won't have any value, so whatever the text stays, and they drop out, and you write it down, and a thousand and a hundred to write up in front, and one and one to write down, the result will be the same.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u761	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Any other lines? I won't. A hole? There won't be. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm going to read Mr. Ivanov's editing now. She was: "2." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 Finally added the added number 100 to the added number. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u762	Madam President, I will make an offer to postpone this text at the moment, to proceed a little further under the Code, and to make the proposal work. This is the document that citizens see in the newsletter. Added number 100. Mr. Ivanov collects numbers with consecutive numbers. How exactly do you collect first, second, third, fourth, fifth with 90, 100, 200, 30? That's picking apples and pears. One is numbers, the other is consecutive numbers. What are you collecting? Let's postpone it, see exactly how the text should be and then vote on it. I don't think it's a problem. We are making important legislation, and this is the most important thing that citizens will see about the newsletter that will be glued. If we go wrong there, it's too bad.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u763	Colleagues, there is a proposal from Mr. Svilensky that we postpone the text for a while, that we can move on, so that we can clarify exactly how to formulate the sentence. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u764	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor just to say what was the original vote on this text on yesterday's: 4 to finally add the 100-plus, by empowering the reference to find the most precise text to the legislative statement. My fellow referees have proposed this text. I take it that, in view of the interpretation of my colleague Nedyalkov, the reading could be the way he did. Therefore, I am making the following proposal: I am making the proposal, as the Legal Committee voted on it, plus 100. Another number is a number, colleague Svilensky. Plus 100 is still a number.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u765	Mr. Kirilov, formulate the sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u766	Point 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 is added at the end of the 100 plus. That's the shortest expression I can think of.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u767	Mr. Ivanov, do you withdraw your editing? Thank you. Hey, guys, do we have any other speeches? No. I put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's editorial amendment: ......... 14......................................................................... Point 2 to be done:. 4 is added at the end of the 100-plus. We are voting for the editorial amendment that Mr. Kirilov just made and Mr. Ivanov withdrew his amendment. Vote 149 MPs: 95, against 43, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 14 of the Commission Report, with the wording of paragraph 14. 2. They voted 132 MPs: for 91, against 41, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u768	Madam President, thank you for giving me the floor for a negative vote. Perhaps everyone in this room has at your disposal the Election Code and you may be adding what we are accepting right now. Point 4 would sound like this: The number written in each round means the number with which the candidate is registered on the candidate list of a party or coalition plus 100. Thank you for your attention. [[Laughter and applause in the Bulgarian BSP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u769	I put to the vote the Commission's support § 15, which Mrs Alexandrova read just now, from the main report. Cancel the vote. I put to the vote the rejection of § 15, colleagues. They voted 147 MPs: 128, against 12, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u770	Proposal by MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs from the Commission's main report. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new paragraph renumbered, recorded § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: It is therefore appropriate If an error is made in completing the minutes, the sectary electoral committee shall destroy the wrong protocol by placing an inscription on the wrong and signing all members of the sectary electoral commission. The Selection Election Commission shall return to the Regional Election Commission the incorrect protocol, the factory number being verified by the number of the minutes entered in the minutes for the surrender and acceptance of the electoral papers under art. 215, para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u771	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 15. They voted 147 MPs: for 147, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u772	Proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 285, para. the second sentence is deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u773	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 16, which the Commission proposes. They voted 139 MPs: for 139 against and abstentions there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u774	Proposal by the MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid on the Commission's basic report, which is generally supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 298. 2 is amended The preference (preffers) for individual candidates shall be valid if the applicant has received actual votes not less than the regional electoral quota.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u775	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u776	Madam President, honourable Members! I think that in this situation you should have the courage to stand up to the voters and tell them the truth because you are not telling them that you are taking away their right to vote for personalities, but by technical means you are meaningless of the preferential vote. In fact, you make up the vote of two and a half million Bulgarians who clearly expressed in a referendum that they want to vote for personalities. If you look at the statistics, you will see that between one and two million people are using the preferential vote, it has proven to work, and this is the only majority element in the system right now. I am sorry, colleagues from GERB, but also those few people in Bulgaria who have remained and believe that you are some European and democratic party, and they will give you up with this withdrawal of citizens' rights. What you're proposing is a total depreciation of the offer. I give you an example: if, by now, in the region of Veliko Tarnovo, one candidate needed about 2 - 3 thousand preferences, which is not little at all to move with preferences, it would now take 15 thousand preferences, and for a MEP, according to these proposals, more than 150 thousand preferences. According to this criterion, no person would enter the Bulgarian Parliament or the European Parliament with a preference. This is the abolition of citizens' right to vote for personalities and nothing less than that, fellow Members. Have courage, stand up and say it. Because this is the proposal of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, but I do not know why GERB supports it, even less know why colleagues, so-called Patriots, support this proposal of the DPS and should finally become clear to their voters that they are one. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u777	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u778	Dear Mr. Bozhankov, since you asked a question about the substance of the proposal, the colleagues from the DPS, I suppose, will answer, will explain. Dear Mr. Bojankov, but the two previous votes were on your proposals, which we supported. Why didn't you ask a question then: but why GERB supported our proposals? But why did the Patriots support our proposals? But why did the DPS support our proposals? I'm sorry, populism must still have a limit!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u779	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Come in for a second line, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u780	Madam President, honourable Members! The referendum proved not to be a vote for personalities, but as the brightest form of controlled and corporate vote, and this is not in a single report. It is in practice and in the comments of absolutely all observers. I'd like to ask who I'm making a line to, does he feel in conflict of interest in this corporate vote? [[Heckling]] If we're going to attack each other, if we're going to talk like this, I'm telling you directly and directly: this is a corporate vote! That's what the owners of big companies do, that's what those who want to buy and control the vote. The DPS from the first day of the introduction of the reference was against. In each vote and amendment of the Election Code, we have tabled proposals to drop the referendum entirely. We are consistent and have no problem with our constituents. We are consistent and every reference that has been carried out on corporate and family grounds with us, we have rejected it by removing the MPs from our parliamentary group who have been selected on this corporate, generic or other sign that undermines the integrity of the vote. That is why we face you in no deal with GERB, at least with the nationalists, to tell you that from the first day we are against this practice and will be against it until it is liquidated, because it is not a vote for personalities. In the lists of each party each person is a person and he is arranged there, according to all the rules and requirements not only of the party, of democracy, according to the needs of a parliamentary group of how many lawyers he needs, how many economists, how many specialists in other areas.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u781	Time, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u782	So please let the DPS not be gum in your mouth, because you will receive absolutely every statement you try to attack the consistent and principled position of the DPS, you will receive exactly this type of resistance. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u783	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Here's a third line, Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u784	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Bojankov, in your speech you tried to mislead us with the idea that you are defending the rights of the citizens, and with one such pathos, which would be good to have from this tribune when it really is about the rights of the Bulgarian citizens. But when the texts in this Election Code were only one or two hours ago on the agenda, neither this pathos we saw personally in you, nor in BSP as a whole, nor in GERB as a whole, nor in any other. When the constitutional rights of Bulgarian citizens are violated, you are not there. I mean, you're violating constitutional rights. Now, right now, to talk about someone voting for personalities, is there no personalities on your lists? Each of the parties and each list consists of individuals, including, by my understanding, the lists of both BSP and DPS, and GERB, and all parties. Personalities can also be voted on. The electoral code gives this opportunity. Let these individuals, who will have enough votes and do not want to be tied to the parties, persuade the Bulgarian citizens and they really vote for majority candidates, the independent candidates are such, there is such an opportunity to appear and will receive the sufficient trust of the Bulgarian citizens to be here in the National Assembly, elected as independent, and the alternative option is the responsibility of the parties who arrange the proportionate lists and make the proportional vote should not be eliminated because the rearranging of the lists has seen that sometimes occurs in local elections with seven-eight votes, but in the national elections with a hundred votes. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u785	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u786	Dear Madam President, honourable Members replicating! No doubt there can be and there can be abuses by any right, but that does not mean that we have to cancel the right itself. [[Noise and lines.]] If big capital doesn't buy places with preferences, it can buy places with leaves. This could theoretically happen in a local vote to buy certain people and buy their place on the list. And this has happened before you had the preferences. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm answering you to the point. Please don't replicate me from place to place. I do not deny the expert potential of political parties. I do not deny their right to form one core of experts. Your parliamentary group is one of the most expert, and I do not deny that either. But this right is protected by the leader of lists because he takes all the votes that have not scored a reference. That is, the party can always guarantee the leaders of the lists, respectively the core, respectively the party elite. Our call is: leave from second place the crumbs for the people, so that they choose someone. It's not too much, is it? Because, colleagues, we're practically canceling the preferences. We're not talking about anything else here, and I'm asking you to be clear about it. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u787	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. Mr. Veselinov has the floor to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u788	Honourable Members, Madam President! Indeed, this may be the highlight of today's programme... the subject of preferences. We hear that big capital can buy a seat on the lists, that big capital can buy a party. For example, I hear that BSP is a large capital party. But in this case, there is another logic, and that is why we, the Patriots of IMRO, will not support this practical cancellation of preferences. All of us as politicians face the bad image of politics at all, but the purpose of the preferences texts is to identify the citizen with a particular MP. Indeed, there was a referendum, there was a request for a majority start in the elections. It's our only form of majority. In fact, the Bulgarian citizen is basically disgusted by the fact that the parties choose their MPs often on the principle of obedience, then the chosen one chooses those who choose them as ministers and so on, and in fact the principle of control of power is largely blurred. The idea of choosing individuals is an idea for these people to have a responsibility to the citizens and not to the parties first. Of course, in theory we should also have chosen under the old system, as they say, the same responsibilities, but far more dense is the connection when a person gets the direct civic vote. By the way, I will not declare a conflict of interest, because although I have been repeating throughout the campaign that we should not vote preferentially in order not to create invalid ballots, because that is indeed the problem, in the end I had enough preferences to rearrange myself if I were in the next place, but that is not the issue. In my opinion, we all need to realise our responsibility in re-inspiring confidence in the political process, that is, citizens believing in this political process. Instead of discussing the removal of the sacred cow of the first, say, in the lists for MPs or municipal councillors, we are actually discussing how in no way can anyone be displaced. I declare that all of us, the MPs of IMRO, will vote against the proposals made. Moreover, if these proposals still pass, I very much hope that some glamour of reason and consistency in behavior will divert colleagues from GERB from this extremely wrong move, we will start a debate on a change in principle of the way of electing MPs, respectively the municipal councillors, so that the majority start will be leading.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u789	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Ermenkov, Mr. Simov, Mr. Gokov and Mr. Vigenin, Mr. Milkov, Mr. Zarkov, Mr. Svilenski and Mr. Kutev. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u790	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I bring you back to the beginning of our discussion in discussing the title of this law. When I reminded you that in art. 3, para. 1 from now the Acting Code is written that this Code should ensure free expression of the will of citizens and guarantee this free expression and when discussing what to write in front of it, whether it be plus a hundred, a thousand or one, I have paid attention to you that we are dealing with pointless work, bearing in mind exactly this paragraph, which we are now discussing, § 17, which it proposes in art. OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 2 to write such conditions that make the preferential vote impossible. I understand that this is indeed their consistent policy that they have always led against the preferential vote as such, believing that it does not reflect the will of the party's leadership, which should be leading in the formation of the lists. Their opinion, I don't question it, every party has a right to make an approach. I am surprised, however, that colleagues from GERB, who one year concerned us with how they wanted to have an absolute majority vote, all MPs in the National Assembly to be elected majority and here swore that they would make proposals for majority vote. Mr. Kirilov went to studios on TV to explain how GERB were for the pure majority vote, but no one else had understood them and had not supported them. Now suddenly we are offered a text, supported by them, in which the majority vote is destroyed, gone. It's gone, and it can't be, because it can't and there's no way in one list of six people, a majority of them being good enough to get votes that are going to be equal to the votes that an independent candidate comes in with. It's ridiculous! It's ridiculous! This thing I want you all to admit it. Again, the DPS has the right. They're consistent with politics. They have no right to be angry with them or to pay attention to them, that's their understanding. I ask my colleagues from GERB: is this your European understanding of democracy? Is this what you're trying to expand this democracy and give the right to the ordinary person who voted, except to support the party's list by voting for the leaves, to support the one who seems to be the better. Is this how you want to stimulate an increase in voter activity? Isn't that one of the reasons we introduced majority to the lists? To have more interest in people going out to vote, to be those people who have sent us here their number is greater than what it is now so that every Bulgarian citizen can feel parliamentary represented and his voice can be heard. Including the personalities who enter parliament. Were there few protests outside that claimed that there were dolls in parliament sitting and just pressing buttons? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I'm not the one saying it. People are saying it outside. You, with this cancellation of preferences, are only deluding this impression that party obedient people are being sent to parliament, only they can be the ones who will be in the lists and the people, voters are not entitled to any rearranging. If this is your principle of democracy, excuse me, you are very wrong! We can't, we can't, and we will never support such a text. On the contrary, we should try so hard to make sure that, on the one hand, preferences are really an incentive for more citizens to vote, preferences to be an incentive to rob that negative vote, through the possibility of voting for the person who is in the lists, but according to them, it is not first, but third or fifth, and wants to enter parliament, and then people will be sure that the envoys who are in this Parliament are theirs and not the parties'. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u791	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Will there be lines? The line, Mr. Karadayi, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u792	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I congratulate you on the pathos for protecting the rights of Bulgarian citizens, but in the spirit of your questions I would like to continue and ask the same questions to you personally and to the BSP. Is this what you understand about protecting the rights of Bulgarian citizens? Is this your principle and understanding of democracy? By voting in art. 38, para. 2, points 7 and 8, without having a constitutional basis, and only on the principle of some address to withdraw the right to vote at all the Bulgarian citizen and he cannot vote at all by limiting his rights to vote, fighting here for any preferences? You restricted him from voting at all. What kind of preferences are you talking about?! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u793	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Second line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u794	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Karadaye, we have not forbidden anyone to vote. [[Loud noise and lines from DPS.]] We didn't forbid anyone to vote! Whoever is willing will also find the opportunity to go to the respective election section and vote there. We have not restricted anyone's right to express his will during elections, to express his opinion and to express his opinion in the official Bulgarian language [[DPS line: "Demagog! "]] which is Bulgarian language, of Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u795	Mr. Hamid, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u796	I ask you very much, when we talk about the subject of the.............................................then we do not involve those thin national differences................................................... [[strong noise and lines from DPS, shouts: "Eee! "]] who can't fix things, but can dig deeper into the problems that exist, and we have to be blind so we don't see them. Let's focus on what's called the..... vote................................................................................. Any other thing you're trying to bring in here, almost as disbarred, is demagogy. [[blowing noise and lines from DPS]] , an attempt to pick up a certain part of the voters who may already be a little disappointed by your leadership. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u797	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u798	Thank you, Madam President. I'm addressing you. Make sure that Mr. Ermenkov and not only him, but all other MPs understand once and for all that we patriots of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. [[beeping loudly]] I, Mustafa Karadaye, the patriot... [[(Loud noise. Banging at banks. It's a rally from the O.R. (Laughter)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u799	Colleagues, please be quiet. [[Loud noise.]] Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u800	We are part of the Bulgarian nation! We are part of the Bulgarian nation! You'd better understand that! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u801	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Mr. Simov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u802	Madam President, honourable Members! Right now, I'm most sorry that we have to have this debate in front of a half-empty room. It is clear evidence of what a sharp contrast parliament is in with what excites people outside. There are people who are protesting right against the violation of the preferences of the social networks are excited, people are protesting, and here my colleagues from GERB have found other interesting activities. However, it is their right, only I wonder which image of GERB is authentic. In 2017, I, like Tasco Ermenkov, remember what beautiful, romantic love flowed between Slavi Trifonov and GERB party. Slavi Trifonov looked tenderly, GERB representatives looked wisely and agreed that they were all for majority vote. Today, two years later, with the greatest pleasure, with legal slaughter, unseen in this part of Bulgaria, you are now cutting down everything majority in this list. Preference is not a problem of the electoral system, it is not a preference that disgusts or makes the corporate vote unsolicited is what irritates people! People feel unpresented and preference is a way to bypass what they find to be dictated by party elites. People don't want to vote for those suits, they want to identify with someone, and you take that right away! Today you simply deprive them of the right to make their choice! And what it turns out is that party elites bring some much higher wisdom than the voices of the people who are at the heart of democracy. Invasion is a political crime! Instead of expanding it instead of thinking about how to deepen it, we are currently removing it, making it inaccessible and, believe me, it will explode in the faces of those who are dealing with this political experiment! The city's right hand has gathered 90 people. There'll be more tomorrow! There'll be a lot more people coming out to say their voice. It is not far away when this will be judged as a huge political mistake, because everything that goes against the interests of the people, against their attempt to show that they have a voice and want that voice to be heard, even when it is contrary to party elites, is now being taken away! And they'll just never forget it! We must do everything we can to leave this preference. This is the way to get people to keep voting. Everything else will prove once again to those angry outside that in this Parliament we not only do not make politics, but do our best to go against their interest! If we don't prevent it, then the political disaster that's about to come, you don't have to be Vanga to see it! Preference works, people use it! By the way, when we have discussions about flat tax, I hear very often, even by representatives of the DPS, that once a right cannot be taken back. It's the same with the reference! We made people see what political freedom is, freedom of choice, and now we want to slam their political bars. This will not be forgiven! And this must be terminated in this room! Finally, I would like to address the representatives of GERB in this House, however few there are. Your biggest parliamentary star is a preferential candidate we are talking about Spas Gurnevski. If you screw him up, who's gonna read a declaration every Friday against the godless communists?! Have you thought about that?! [[Loud noise and lines. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u803	Come in for a cue, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u804	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Simov, from your pathetic statement. Mixing, interfering to the right, left, I got the impression that you solved your problem with the leader of the list for the upcoming Eurovot, which was about five years ago. 15/15 - Will you make him the leader?! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] He collected preferences and became a MEP. Here, congratulations, you solved your problem, make him your leader! [[Loud noise and lines. Applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u805	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Second line, Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u806	Thank you, Madam President! Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Simov, I could certainly use the same pathos to expose your arguments, but I will try to keep it calm so that we can somehow get into a more relaxed tone when discussing this topic. Majority element, we don't mind. Majority choice, we don't mind either. And we've said it many times, only it's demagogy! The reference is demagogy, and I'll tell you why. Political parties, Mr. Simov, represent political brands, as in business there are brands. There's Coca-Cola, there's Pepsi-Cola, there's Adidas and so on. This brand is filled with content, tradition, programs and so on and so forth. What majority is there in branding with this brand, which hundreds of thousands, millions, even with you and with GERB, and with a small part of the company in 99 percent of the cases, clientelist in 100 percent of the cases, I would say, branded with the branded with the brand "BSP", 120 years old party, but to come out majority and say: I am Alexander Simov, I am the person Simov, I am the person Tsonev, I suggest you protect your interests as a person and I will not be dependent on a party and I will not be dependent on elites, and I will not be dependent on anyone! Hundreds of people have worked hard to make your program a vision for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u807	Time, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u808	And with this program, someone will come up with 5,000 votes to become an MP?! Please don't demagogize! The argument about the majority of preferences is pure demagogy! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u809	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Third line, Mr. Bojankov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u810	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Simov! [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u811	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u812	It is true that each party has a different relationship and is entitled to it. As fellow Members of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms said, they have colleagues who have excluded and sat in the back. Obviously GERB has such a problem. Apparently part of the Patriots. The BSP set an example with 15/15, but I'll say something that we know inside the BSP. Momchil Nekov is a successful, popular MP who does his job well [[beeping, speaking indistinctly]] because it is the responsibility of parties to include people who, if elected, will not be ashamed of this political power. How do they fall into this list? He didn't, not from Mars! They end up going through meetings, don't they? If parties put into their lists people who should not be in parliament and are ashamed of someone, it should be a matter of internal discipline and rules in the selection of members of a party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u813	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Please, Mr. Simov. [[Noise, lines, calls.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u814	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Lazarov, in fact what colleague Bozhankov said is the answer to your question. Who will lead the BSP leaves depends only on BSP and BSP will not be ashamed if it is Momchil Nekov, as problem 15/15 will not and there has never been. Every participant on the BSP list is worthy to lead it. If it's different with you, it's your problem! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Tsonev, you may be right! I can't help but get excited! For me, the preference is a matter of a personal cause, because I deeply do not believe that any party apparatus can and has the last word when you have to line up a list and nothing corporate is involved here. If something is being used unfairly, that doesn't mean the pattern is wrong. It just has to be done so that it is not used for corporate purposes. Yeah, but you don't do that. You're making the offer unattainable! You're taking people away from her! You lift the threshold in such a way that it can remain what your party leadership has indicated. And that's where I'm supposed to replicate you. Yeah, BSP's a brand, brand... BSP is a brand brand that makes more and more people identify themselves. And you know what? BSP as a brand can say: "Only we in this Parliament are defending the preference, only we are the voice of angry people, only BSP understands them. " [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u815	Thank you, dear Mr. Simov. In the manner of conduct please, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u816	Dear Madam President, to give each fellow Member the opportunity to express which less emotionally, which is a little louder.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u817	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u818	This is the right of the MP, of course you can't follow, but take some measures at times, because some colleagues in their excitement, in their sensitivity, have become confused. They went that way a little bit. [[Radio, noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u819	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. I'll take a note. Mr. Gokov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u820	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, I admit that until recently I was not a fan of the preferential vote at least because it creates tension in the party ranks. This is shown by everyone by their speeches you are making here in support of this proposal, which, as I understand it, comes out of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. A careful reading of the party's ability to influence the election process has led me to think about it. The people, both inside the party ranks and outside the parties, want to have an opportunity to influence who decides their fate, so I believe that the increase in quotas for the size of the preferential vote is essentially anti-democratic. It negates the right to majority choice. Now I'm sure Mr. Tsonev will give me a line that there's nothing majority in the preferential vote. I don't agree with that. This deprives citizens of the opportunity to shift the lists, to move forward those who like, who think they are more worthy candidates. Do you remember the referendum initiated by Slavi Trifonov? I guess you remember him because, as short as his memory is, he wasn't much of a long time ago. Then all parties swore in the majority vote, as I recall. Only BSP was very careful about the issue and suggested a mixed system which, of course, was not accepted by the majority in any way. It was not initiated by the majority of changes in the Election Code to come to this day, when with one proposal we want to remove from the Election Code and the little majority that is in it, because the increase in the preferential quota is in practice, again I say, mockery with the desire of 2.5 "3 million Bulgarians who voted preferentially in the last elections. You're talking about a phenomenon here. I don't know what, or a mistake. 15/15, which turned out to be, first of all, it's not a mistake. And, secondly, it was the beginning of the preferential vote and then it was normal for people to get confused. Now more and more people are aware of the power of the preferential vote and are using it as a lever to move forward people who think they will do work in the European Parliament, in our Parliament, in the municipal councils, so they vote preferentially more people. I want the preferences to work in practice because with this proposal you are making, colleagues from the DPS, I do not want to discuss the motives with which you are doing it, because a very large part of the reasons I accept them for what you are proposing. But how do you get people to vote and attract more voters to participate in the elections with a non-working preferential mechanism? I think you don't hear people's voices outside, and I think they're not left at all, these people, and I consider myself a left man, but I think in this case like them. They are gathered outside under the title: "Let's save the preferences." "Do you not hear that they are crying out: "Omission!" - colleagues from GERB? Aren't the other troubles enough for you, and you're getting into this trouble with this vote against the preferential vote to turn the rest of the right-wing people against you? By the way, you're probably counting on today to be a holiday and everyone's celebrating and somehow noticing that we're sitting in the middle of the night and we can accept all the crap we want. You hope that no one will read the Election Code and we will have an Election Code where there will be some preferences as an option, as an element, and we will wave it around as some kind of democratic sign, as a majority choice, we will brag to foreigners, if you will, with it, and at the same time it will not work. I want to tell you that we have no concern about the preferences in BSP, no matter how much you think you do, because people fall into our lists because of the democracy of our party, of BSP, which I claim to be the most democratic party in our recent history.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u821	Get it over with, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u822	I think that only candidates who are worthy to represent themselves and the party and to work for the people who have trusted them are included in our lists, so that there is nothing wrong with the preferences and that you want to take them away is not good for democracy in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u823	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? Here's your first line, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u824	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Gokov, I don't know. I have you for an intelligent person, but when a MP has proposed some texts and you call this nonsense, I am obliged to tell you that all that you are saying from this tribune is complete nonsense! First of all, no one takes away any preferences. Secondly, this is a European practice of calculating preferences. I will quote you two countries - the Netherlands and Austria. Check it out! That's the quota over there. The next is when in the current Election Code we have a true majority element, such as the independent candidate, he and the current text in the Election Code, the preference, the vote, his result is calculated with this quota without being preferential, he is working on this quota. Then why would one major element, the real one, the independent candidate have the respective election quota, and the one that got into the brand, in the party list is 7%, notice from the vote of the party, not from any percentage even of the cost of the mandate? Why? Don't you think that these 7% of all the votes of this party are offensive to 93% of the votes of the same party? Doesn't this opposition mean anything to you? And you say that when they come to you, they are bright personalities and it is probably still not short of our memory that when we had a real majority choice for MPs, we had 27 MPs. We had a real majority election!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u825	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. For the second line please, Mr. Letifov. [[Noise, lines and calls from the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u826	I will refrain from answering the hint and ironic cue of Mr. Mirchev and I will stick to the line I have stated to make. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Gokov, after all we are Grounders with you and with great respect I will repeat some of the arguments of my colleague, but also ask you a question. We're talking about the preference of a manna from heaven, which, you see, will solve all the problems if she stays or if we decide that this case is as you suggest. However, to remind you of something you are actually saying and you are doing. You dispute this National Assembly and its legitimacy and its professionalism and its morality, and this National Assembly is chosen with preferences! Well, then what should become clear if we compare a few folk meetings backwards? It turns out that where there was no majority element, no preferences, there was a far higher rating and confidence than society. Then the question is: what really makes Bulgarian citizens trust us is the very reference or the fulfillment of our commitments and moral behavior here. We challenge the National Assembly, we challenge this power, but it turns out that they are chosen preferentially. Isn't that right? We have to decide exactly where we're going at some point, because there are no goals, no priorities, but we demagogize so that another scandal can cover another scandal. This is not the agenda of society! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u827	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u828	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gokov, since colleague Hamid in his line said that you were talking nonsense and it is unacceptable for me to address colleagues like that because everyone has their own opinion of whether you think it is nonsense or not, it doesn't matter. He has his own opinion on the matter. Because you said... [[Reply from MP Hamid Hamid.]] Yeah, yeah, I'd like to justify myself to ask him a question. And because, Mr. Hamid, you said that we didn't actually remove the preferences, but we raise the threshold so much that we completely depreciate them, Mr. Gokov, my question to you is: if according to the DPS, we don't remove the preferences, but we really deconstruct them, what do you think about making the threshold for entering the parliament 10% and next time we remove the DPS from both sides of the building? [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u829	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u830	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I will start backwards. By the way, Mr. Mirchev, I'm not going to tell you what I think about the threshold for entering parliament. This is what every Bulgarian thinks that the threshold should be much higher than what is currently in order for fewer people to enter parliament, fewer parties so that there are no random parties that stick to someone and thus parasite, vegetate on the main organisms. So much for that. What I think about it is not very important. Unfortunately, the Bulgarian people have taken away the opportunity to say what they think about this issue, which you are asking me. To Mr. Hamid: Mr. Hamid, I have by no means described DSS's proposals as bullshit. I said we're doing shit tonight with five reports, with 10 reports, and people outside are protesting that's what I mean. If you are offended by the fact that I have said some nonsense, I assure you that it does not apply to your proposals. At the moment, the proposal you are making for the preferential vote, you are practically removing it. Why didn't you offer as a party to remove the majority vote in the preferential vote so it wouldn't be there, and you're making it impossible to reach? You're sure you're convinced of what you're suggesting there won't be any candidate to cross those barriers and boundaries you're talking about? That's why I'm saying I don't consider your proposal bullshit. I would support it if it were elevated to a reasonable level. I don't remember if you were the initiator, but I do remember that Dancho Tsonev was the initiator of that 7% when we adopted the Election Code. I remember it very well because the Election Code has voted in this National Assembly. So I don't know what you've evolved into since then, but that's the way it is. Should the majority candidate be independent? The party won there 20th, 30th, or five percent and entered parliament. Within that 5%, there's nothing wrong with one of the candidates fighting 7%. I don't want to develop this theory, much less run out of time. I will tell Mr. Letifov: the pure majority choice, Mr. Letifov, I do not think it is appropriate and good, but there must be elements of majority, of preferential vote and people to know that it depends on them, it is not just the party that arranges the leaves.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u831	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u832	I'm done since I'm out of time, but it's a subject that's very long and...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u833	Stop.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u834	...we are now trying to resolve it with quick action without having the necessary debates in the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u835	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Personal explanation please, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u836	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Gokov, I accept your apology, I suggest the same to you. If you didn't say anything about my proposal that it wasn't bullshit, I'm withdrawing my words to you. You didn't say it, and I didn't say it. First, however, we need to stop manipulating, because we have been expressly against it since the introduction of preferences. Not only have we not offered a threshold, we've been against it since day one. Open the transcripts. At least you can accuse Mr. Tsonev of entering a threshold. Open the transcripts. We were against admission. Why do I say this is a European practice? This threshold...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u837	Mr. Hamid, please, to the personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u838	...if there is a person, this threshold is completely real and attainable. However, if there are any...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u839	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u840	...if there are any, the father of which is a oligarch...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u841	Mr. Hamid, let's stick to the personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u842	...someone deribey in some small village, and secured the purchase of the votes, and with 2000 votes became MP, ask colleagues from Blagoevgrad there a mayor of the village cannot become with 2000 votes, and they have become MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u843	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u844	Mr. Mirchev, don't worry about destroying the DPS and whether it will enter parliament. [[The President Emil Hristov turns off the microphones. Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u845	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u846	Dear Mr. Chairman, I appeal to you in the manner of conduct. First of all, you give my line a personal explanation, and how do I address the one who gives me a line except by name? Secondly, the statement was practically a speech, and it was a replica of my line. Now I have to ask you to give me my coat...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u847	Make a judgment call.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u848	I'm not going to take advantage of this, but please don't do these things because they transferred to Stoyan Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u849	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. He thought Mr. Hamid might have felt hurt. The way you're holding Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u850	Mr. Chairman, I understand Mr. Gokov's concern, but you should have made a remark to the replicator who was replicating Mr. Hamid's lines and who basically didn't say anything to the text, but was making some criticism of his own dreams about what was going to happen to the DPS. What you didn't let your colleague say was that these were his genetic experiments. Thank you. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u851	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Mr. Sabanov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u852	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I understand the DPS thesis, and there's nothing wrong with defending your thesis. Since you've been in parliament, since there's a majority vote, and a preferential vote, you've been defending a thesis. However, I cannot understand the colleagues from GERB who have brought so many preferences not only for the entry of some of their MPs, but many votes have added to the party itself, which may not have voted, and we are not talking to any party about whether it is GERB, United Patriarchs and BSP or DPS. When there is a majority or preferential vote, then people choose someone, perhaps they would not vote for the party, but vote for this particular person. You have no doubt that when, if the preferential vote falls, the percentage of voters in the elections, even in the local elections, will be lower than in the last elections, because, you know, there is no way that everyone can be first and second on the list? In a multi-mandated area like Silistra, for example, from which I am, there are four, four MPs can enter. Not every party can be first. This is the only way people can choose to move what the party headquarters has told them, or to show at least at the party headquarters that it was wrong, not to fight or what the BSP has proclaimed, how do party plants not give people a choice? On the contrary, the people who are convinced for example the supporters of GERB, of BSP, thus showing the party leadership that it was wrong and giving it a chance in the next elections to be corrected eventually. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u853	Thank you, dear Mr. Sabanov. - What's the line? I can't see. You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u854	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I listened very carefully to the debate and going back in time, I will tell you something: whenever changes are made to the Election Code, people who make changes to it in most cases make some bills, but they never come out the way they do when changing it. I am referring to the following example: in 2008 There are colleagues here who were present, inspiring to change the Election Code was Mr. Parvanov. As GERB stepped up and in the upcoming elections everyone knew that GERB would win, decided to bring in the majority vote. Then Mrs. Maya Manolova defended this thesis brilliantly. That's it. That's it. That's it. The electoral code was changed, but in 2009 it became so that 27 majority elected candidates were from GERB. Colleagues, BSP, do you know how many there were? Zero! Example: Mr. Danailov played against Mrs. Menda Stoyanova in the town of Plovdiv. Guess who won? I said "nula" for BSP, so it is clear that he has not defeated Mr. Stefan Danailov with respect and respect for him. What happened next? When the local elections came, again with an attempt to defeat the Political Party GERB, decided to change the choice of regional mayors to not be majority. Let's switch, let's try. BSP's okay. We changed and again you lost. I'm talking about Sofia, Plovdiv, Varna, I'm talking specifically about the choice. When we associated this National Assembly, we proposed to you, the entire Parliament, a majority choice. I would like to ask: how did your political party vote? You're hiding, you're not there. Now we hear tirads here, pathos. Today, admiration for Mr. Tsonev, I think he made a very good point because a political party that has a platform that conducts politics must go out to its voters to defend its policy. When an independent wants to separate himself from the political party, he can come out and run as an independent MP in the National Assembly. This is also a vote of democracy supposed form. But I ask: when three, four example corporate MPs come in here, whose political platform will they protect? I'm talking about people in the business who can and can afford a corporate vote to come in. So when we talk about democracy, the higher form of democracy, this is the choice and opportunity to choose, choose a platform and personality. I really suggest that with such loud phrases here and demagogizing from the stands, I think that we all think and have participated in an election process, each of us to think about how far and how far we can continue to deceive our constituents. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u855	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Are there lines? The line, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u856	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Associate Professor Ivanov! I followed your statement with great attention. It was built on the following thesis: You recalled cases from the past in parliamentary practice when every sharp change or change in the Election Code has punished those who made it. We are right now at the debate on limiting the preferential vote. My question to you is: do you think that exactly limiting the preferential vote will play a bad joke on those who offer and support it? Because if you ask me, I can also point out examples in this Chamber, where the preferential vote has led to the choice of some individuals with whom at least I disagree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u857	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Mr. Kutev, I'll give you the floor after Mr. Vesselinoff. Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u858	Dear Mr. Ivanov, I have two main disagreements with you. The first is related to your analogy between the preferential vote and the majority vote. This may have been a retrospect, but in any case, the preferential vote is better than the majority vote in that you actually vote for a cause, you vote for a list that the party has already given confidence to, for people who should have already been checked. The only thing that remains for the citizen, however, is to choose personalities from these people. That is why, first of all, when you proposed a full majority vote, we were against this from the IMRO speaking, I am not talking about all the colleagues in the parliamentary group, but we are absolutely about the preferential beginning as a form of majority. The second thing I would like to draw your attention to is for all the historical examples that you have given of changing the electoral rules for the purpose of some party benefit that turn against their originators. At the moment you are walking into the trap of the DPS in the same way that BSP was trying to change rules and was losing out on it. At the moment, you're losing it, think about it! It's not too late to change your mind and leave the preferences.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u859	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Dear Mr. Kutev, line three.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u860	Dear Mr. Ivanov, the truth is that BSP has also always been very consistent with the so-called majority element.................................................................................. Personally, I believe that they are part of or are a form of majority elements, so I fully support them. This is how BSP has always done it, including then, as you pointed out when we lost to it and there is nothing wrong with that, on the contrary, it shows the principle, even then, because I was a member of the Bureau. When these decisions were made, I remember hearing Mitko Dubov, personally on the Bureau, saying, "We won't have any." Not that we didn't realize that we wouldn't have any, then we made the decisions we thought were responsible for the state. But that's not what I wanted to tell you. I rather wanted to say a few words about trying to declare all this work for demagogy. No, it's not demagogy! We have a sharp gap between the so-called political elites and what people on the outside are looking at. This is a huge problem for the party system that is being transferred to the political system. These are tensions that are characteristic not only for Bulgaria, they are characteristic for the whole of Europe, probably for other parts of the world as well. This is the task in front of this political class, if there is such a concept at all, because politicians are not the class or should at least not be, but this task must be solved by this National Assembly or by any subsequent one, if it does not resolve it. But this rift, if we continue to allow it to increase, this thing will have severe consequences, as I said, for all party systems. Trying to preserve the party systems you are currently doing under the influence of the DPS, we will eventually behead them. This is the way! [[The President gives a sign that the time has expired.]] Sorry, I'm done, Mr. Chairman. This is her way of calling this demagogy, excuse me, but it's a form to say it softly, of political shortsightedness that will end very soon.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u861	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Professor Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u862	I will start by saying that without parties there is no democracy. Nothing else has been invented, so if we deny and want to somehow reduce political influence and no parties, then I think we will have a huge mistake and a huge problem. Erosing the trust of parties, and parties have their own leadership, without commenting what it is, but I would say that in this way, destroying the confidence of parties, we will also destroy democracy. I'm going to say one more sentence about how we want to win our constituents. In my opinion, it is with us representing their problems, not having a choice of people who are interested in changing the system for their own benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u863	Thank you, Associate Professor Ivanov. You have the floor to speak, dear Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u864	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, first to address colleagues from GERB. I don't know who put you in on what you're doing right now. The changes to the Election Code literally 100 days before the election, I don't know who put you in this collaboration with the DPS and specifically on this issue. We feel like it's a deal after all. You were the people who just two years ago insisted on a majority choice, now you're standing on the right, you're silent, because you have nothing to say in reality, you're going to press the buttons in a moment to support this proposal, which makes the preferential vote completely meaningless, and spit on what you've done so far. I don't really understand you because of all this you will lose. It's easy, of course, we can stay. Since you don't like pathetic speeches, I'm going to try to say it calmly: that's all you lose and only you! We should gloat on the left, but what is happening now will have its reflections on the country. Why? Before me spoke Mr. Ivanov a man who has long been in the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSS. What are you doing now? You are changing significantly the content of the Election Code. Your procedure is absurd: a meeting on the nights of the Commission, meetings on the nights of parliament. You are making substantial changes that are entirely inconsistent in a rotational environment with the opposition. In a moment, you will also vote against electing a new Central Election Commission, despite the law. When we, as a member of the European Union, observe elections in other countries, if this happens, the red light lights up that unfair, undemocratic and unfree elections are being prepared. You should also be aware of this, because the world is not only here, there are people outside who will ask you why you are changing your position on the preferential vote and your partners will ask what is happening in Bulgaria that all of this is being done. I hope you're aware, but I'm afraid you're not aware, and I'm saying it with real concern. As for the preferential vote, yes, BSP is the party that did not fully support the majority vote, but we supported the system in which there remains 50% majority vote, 50% vote. Then you decided that wasn't enough, and you didn't support us. Now, with conviction, we must say that you are betraying two and a half million Bulgarian citizens who wanted majority vote. Preference is a way to give people a chance to still express their preferences, not to impose party elites on them, where the first one is first, the second one is second, and the third one has no chance and therefore does not give the effort to campaign. That's not true with the corporate vote. Do you put in your lists people who are corporate feeds? Probably not! Probably not! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] From my personal experience, the people in the campaigns in which I have been involved in preferential voting so far, the experience is positive. Yeah, it's awkward for party elites both local and national, but it gives people a chance to say their opinions. The separation of this Parliament, especially the right now, of GERB by the people is so great that you do not even realize what you are doing right now. Don't support this change! It's essential, it makes up for everything we've done in the last few years. It makes the chance and the freedom we gave the people, and now with your votes you will take it away. People won't accept that, you're taking a huge risk. Do it, of course, it is good for us, but it is not good for the political system in Bulgaria, it is not good in terms of tearing away this elite here, who has confidence of 8%, and the people who will have to come to elections tomorrow and vote. Don't be afraid of the people and the rearranging of these lists! Don't give all power to the man from Bankya, the man from the Sarai to line up your lists and send you here to parliament. And that makes sense, but let people have the chance to have the freedom to choose those who think they should be in this Parliament. Thank you. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u865	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. - What's the line? I can't see. The next statement is Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u866	My fellow Members, I am beginning my speech and will take into account everything that has been said. The position of the DPS is clear. We understand it, but we don't share it, I don't share it, and that right should be given to every MP. I understand her, I respect her, I hear her, I listen to you very carefully, but I don't think so. I'll try to explain why. Preparing for today's debate, I requested a reference from the Central Election Commission, which, in an urgent order, has been made to me, almost 58% of the people have voted preferentially. I have to ask: 58% of the people who voted preferentially are corporate votes? If I didn't have that reference, given your experience, I'd at least shut up and think about it. But when 58% voted preferentially, gentlemen, these people voted because, first of all, the rule had acted enough time, they also understood from the list the team the party had assembled and were satisfied to choose their candidate. It's a psychological effect that can be seen both in sports and in every event. The group is selected and arranged according to the criteria that you point out are good. By passing the reference, which is very important to me, I will determine my decision, I am trying to determine yours, but almost 60 percent of the people voted preferentially. I am going to the next stage with regard to the anonymous and non-party people in the National Assembly. I've entered with preferences, not like 10/10 and I'm not a corporate vote, so I can talk absolutely from personal experience how this became possible and how far it looked when I was only watching you on TV. Right now I'm standing three feet away from you and listening to you live, talking, and I can assure any citizen that he can do that. Participation in a party, of course, allows the individual, using party mechanisms, to realize his ideas for improving society. Personality alone, where to? I'm not telling you any jokes. Personality, alone among 240, will not be able to use the power of the party as an organization. That is why I was a member of the list of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, but exclusively with the meetings with ordinary people I entered as a preferential MP. This undoubtedly creates internal party issues to resolve, but let them remain internal parties. Finally: Bulgaria has an excess of mistrust in the National Representation. That's 8% of every single one of them. People are willing to take part directly in difficult times, people raise a shield to one person and say it for years. At certain times they need to participate in the choice. Do not compare us to the societies of the Netherlands, the societies of the Netherlands and the other countries you are quoting do not have these internal problems. According to the historical moment we are in today, it is good for people to make choices preferential. This proposal, which colleagues give, de facto although nominally still writes in the law that there are preferences, they will become inaccessible. And that's after the first choice that people don't listen to us right now, they don't read the Election Code, but by voting for candidates and by not being able to move them, the whole process will be meaningless and that will be negative. There is no way I can support this proposal. I hope I was sufficiently justified: sixty percent of the people are not a corporate vote! Last word: I hope in the debate we will eventually hear the opinion of the ruling party. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u867	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u868	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, the debate is developing between the DPS and the BSP two parties that clearly stated what they were thinking and arguing. This is a parliamentary debate. The silence of those on whom the final decision depends, I don't want to qualify it, it's too late. [[Noise and lines.]] Some of my colleagues at the DPS said the preference wasn't manna from heaven. He's right, it doesn't solve all problems, it doesn't solve maybe half, but it attracts enormous attention. I'll tell you why I think. Because all parties here have proved unable to read in recent years the clear signs that Bulgarian society gives in respect of our entire political system, a major part of which is the way it is secreted, in which it is chosen. All sorts of things we did that were a mistake. First of all, we passed that referendum, we passed it, we didn't participate in it, we didn't say what could happen to the majority, which are the pros, which are the minuses. Secondly, since the referendum definitely said what citizens want, and it may not be clear exactly what they want, but what they do not want the system as it is. And from then on, every thing that cracks it gathers hope and gathers approval. Then we went on to these games as if no one understood us. You've proposed a law you didn't want passed. We all talked about supporting something we didn't bring in. It's a common sin! And now, instead of looking for a way to atone for this sin, we mix with dirt in the open wound, you mix with dirt in the open wound! I'm not sure you're aware of what's going to happen from now on. But essentially, because the debate is worth it. What's he offering us? I'm going to try to be quite figurative. You have suggested something that I deeply do not understand. One third of the people vote with preferences 2013 and 2017 for the parliamentary elections. Nearly a third of the MPs elected here have been selected preferentially. If the criteria proposed now were applied by 2017 there would not be a single elected MP here! That's the proposal, zero! The very analogy with the so-called "clean majority candidate" that exists shows the inability to implement this proposal. The pure majority candidate only exists between the cover of the Election Code, no one has seen him live because it's not possible to happen. But there's criticism to preferences. Let us look at these criticisms and see if they are ultimately strong enough to overcome them. I don't think they are. Corporate vote is the preference. Maybe, but the lists aren't immune to corporate vote. The way the lists line up and the parties are not immune to this kind of interference. But there's the other way around. The preference, the possibility that a person may find himself in parliament, even without prior consideration of the party's leadership, may and will discipline this party's leadership. It will look a lot more closely at the people who line up in the papers. I am not a fan of the idea of saying that all parties are bad and all guides are bad, but politics is complicated, with many people, with many interests. Their cutting can be left in the hands of the citizens. It's unfair, they say, 7% to 93%, that is, 7% say one person, the other 93% didn't say, and that would tip the scales. Only no one prevents the first, second, third to collect preferences. We talked about permanence of the rules. In time, with the same rules, we will organize the same and just competition. Then whoever's on the list will know they're not guaranteed. This will lead to a competition both between us and inside. And that wouldn't be a bad thing, on the contrary, why not?! I was the leader of the list. My colleague Pencho, who spoke before me, is running a preferential campaign. He did honestly his preferential campaign, I did my party fair. We helped each other, we had a big score, everyone could be interested in this thing. Because, dear Mr. Tsonev, the brand gives no doubt a chance, but the brand needs personalities to nourish it and be constantly sought out. It's a double process. In conclusion, Mr. Chairman! [[(Noise and a replica by GERB: From Sofia it is downloaded in Ruse.]] To conclude, what we are risking today is further increasing tensions against a system. Only part of it is electoral, but the parliamentary one is in danger.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u869	Finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u870	And if we keep not hearing people's signals and not putting fresh air into this system, she is threatened, and that is a threat to people's freedom and they will rightly protest for her. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u871	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Kutev. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u872	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I've heard a lot of things here that, frankly, amaze me quite a bit. One of them was that the so-called vote we are now talking about and the way the preferential vote corrupted the integrity of the vote. I don't think that can be true. I apologize, but it can't be true, and the claim that you see, the preferential vote was a corporate vote, because, excuse me, gentlemen of the DPS, but there is one person in this parliament who obviously has a corporate vote and it is not preferential, it is a party vote. There's one that I don't know his name for now, and we all know who he is, but he's not here, but he's a party boy. By the way, he, too, could, if he wanted to, be preferential, he could go in through a preference, if he wanted, not because he is the best MP, not because he is the favorite representative of the people, not because he has the love and respect of this people, but because there are certain opportunities in certain circles. [[(Reply from DPS: In which circles?]] In a lot of circles, different. I mean, this is the typical example of corporate vote. And now, gentlemen of GERB, there are few left here. I know why you're small. I'll tell you why. First of all, because you have a difference of interest with the DPS. The DPS has their own way of functioning the party. He's been successful enough for them for years. They know very well where their interest is and they're working on it right now. However, your interest and their interest do not coincide. At least the interest of those, I don't know how many are in your group, but 20 or 25 people who are now selected with preferences, I would be very interested in why we didn't hear them, I would love to hear them, by the way, because the debate is about them. And not just for those chosen here by preferences. This debate is also for those who voted for them, they are your constituents. This mechanism, which chooses parties, including BSP, and GERB, this mechanism has other interests, are not those. He's not the same as the DPS. In other ways, voters are motivated. And you have no interest in this support, as we have already told you repeatedly. I ask you again: give these people of yours with the preferences that have come in here to come out and tell them how this is not worth it and let us stop it. Why aren't they here? You're not normally in the conversation. And I know why, I understand. Look, for me, the problem that we are currently solving is the refusal of preferences, what DSS colleagues are proposing is undoubtedly a waiver of preferences, there is no doubt about it, the refusal of preferences is a gross political mistake. I'm ready to stand up for this thing to the end. It is a rude political mistake because it leads to the severe problem in which our entire party system is located, respectively, in the way in which Parliament functions. We have a huge problem with the gap between elites and citizens, a huge problem. And with all these actions, we are deepening this problem. I therefore tell colleagues from GERB that in your case, in the DPS, the way of voting and motivating your constituents is such that you obviously do not mind. However, this is because you are playing a very different, with an excuse for the expression, a political market than the one on which the other parties play. I am convinced that if something does not reach in our democracy, this is that listening to people and what they want. Maybe people want things we don't like. They may not be right a lot of times. However, this does not mean that we should not follow what they want. The British government probably knew where Brexit would lead, but when the referendum said Brexit, it became Brexit. That's why they have a centuries-old political tradition that goes on and on. Because this is the way to real democracy. It's a path we haven't walked. We do not have the right to go back on this path at the moment, because our voters, again I turn to our colleagues from GERB, the voters we rely on because we are playing the real voters because we are playing the real convincing because of what we are doing and voting here depends on who will support us. This is the real question of democracy right now. That's something every one of us depends on. And the more compromises we make now, the more citizens outside will look at us and think of us as those surpluses that they actually imagine we are. [[Noise and lines.]] That's why I'm telling you this is a big mistake. It is a big mistake for all of us who are playing on a real political market and we are trying to offer citizens real political ideas by trying to move the country cart somehow in the right direction. Do not make this compromise, because it will affect both you and us equally, and all of the entire political spectrum! It's a rude political mistake. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u873	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Svilensky's statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u874	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! We are again debating a very important issue from the Election Code and, as everything important in this country, a budget and an Election Code, it is the easiest thing for the rulers to do at night, in the dark, not to look at us. But the people are here, to parliament, and they listen to us. They're gone, are they gone? Well, that'll save you temporarily. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] The position of colleagues from the DPS is consistent and I respect it because they have a consistent position, they defend it, they have made appropriate changes to the Election Code, they have imported it and they are defending it today. However, I cannot understand GERB's position. Only one MP has spoken so far. Mr. Lazarov tried to do some witty lines from the stands. According to him, it worked, we think it didn't. But basically nothing! Colleagues from GERB, colleagues from DPS are 25 people. To make this decision, you need at least 50 more votes. Tell me if you'll give it or not. And by giving them, are you consistent with what you told us just a few months ago that we did not hear 2 million 500,000 Bulgarian citizens, for not complying with the vote of the people who voted in the referendum. Why don't you tell me why you're not here?! Or will you press the button quietly again? But it is clear to Bulgarian citizens how you betray the interests. And whether or not there should be a preference, the elections have already proved it several times, both local and parliamentary. Yeah, the DPS has a problem probably with the preferential candidates. Why? Because you buy them after that. They leave and sit in the last row. And they've been voting with you since day one. And they have a reason why they should. Because you, besides going to the polls, other than changing the protocols, except that you're changing the ballots...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u875	Mr. Svilensky, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u876	What if you want facts to say, Mr. Chairman?! Arena, Armeec, just like that, the same thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u877	At least it's not in line with the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u878	Work 24 hours and 90% false protocols replaced. In the same way you want to do with the MPs. Yeah, you guys do it somewhere, but not always. And now you want to do this thing through law, you want to bet it as a norm. So preferences are a good thing. If you are completely against the preferences, remove them, but do not lie about how to be given a plus 100 in the ballot, and at the same time you have made plus 1000 difficulties so that one member can be elected preferential! We just watched what the election ballot looked like. Isn't that right? There we talked about how to vote preferentially. What's there to vote for when it's impossible to happen? Who will take 150 thousand votes to become a preferential MEP? Does anyone ask themselves that question? We're here on the hypothesis as with the engine vote. You want or don't want a majority element, and if you don't want it, come out of this stands and somebody say it. I hope Mr. Tsvetanov has already arrived where he is traveling and can at least tell you on the phone what his opinion is. Because otherwise we remain in a dialogue with our colleagues from the DPS, we argue, society gets the impression that this fight is between us and them. No, the fight is principled, and we want the government to say. IMRO has declared themselves. The other members of the patriots are silent and they are, if they are against, are not known. Let the government come and say so that the Bulgarian citizens know that the ruling majority is not interested in their vote and that it should only be as arranged the party list, such as to enter here without the importance of the voice of each Bulgarian voter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u879	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? I won't. A statement from Mr. Chenchev was made. Mr. Chenchev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u880	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At 21.00 plus 100 I will tell you back to the allegations that the preferential vote is a mistake, one fact: in the party list two candidates, in a preferential vote, are members of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, rearranging the leaves. It's an informed vote to me. Since 2014, people have had enough time to inform themselves what a preferential vote is and they want it for a reason. The DPS said about an hour ago that they had no problems with the offer they made corresponded with their voters. Okay, we'll take it. However, this proposal does not correspond with the voters, with the rest or most of the other Bulgarian citizens. That's true, and you know it very well. I don't see the point in twisting our souls here. It was no coincidence that we were welcomed before the parliament by Bulgarian citizens. It was no coincidence that, since yesterday, after the Commission's meeting continued until midnight, the social networks were already bawling and boiling. And these are Bulgarian citizens. I don't believe any of us here would deny it. A political force, parliamentaryly represented, makes its proposal on the basis that there is no problem with its voters. Okay, we'll take it. However, we do not accept that our constituents, your constituents and most of the Bulgarians want a preferential vote, because during the preferential vote they see expressions of their understanding of politics and that is why they already point to someone named by the party list, ranked there, and thanks to the fact that in the parties the guides take into account what kind of people are on the list, doctors, architects, engineers and so on, in which there is nothing wrong. But the people, in fact, who send us here, are entitled to their opinion. Raising the threshold makes it impossible. There's nothing wrong with not only telling this, I'd say, a political cause, because that's actually the demand of the population, but also defending it here from the stands. Well, it's a democratic process to have this debate. Another point is that he was led at that time, on that day. These are important things. The last thing I want to finish with, Mr. Chairman, everyone in this House knows that the preferential vote brings added value to the total votes received by the parties. That's true, and no one can deny it. I will call on you, respect this people of the ruling majority, honourable Members, and do not support this proposal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u881	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. Are there any lines? Mr. Tsonev, come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u882	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! There's been a debate. I would like to congratulate my colleague Zarkov and my colleague Milkov because these are arguments that are true arguments put forward in a way in which we should speak in this House. I had prepared myself in another way to present my party's thesis and my thesis regarding the preferential vote, but you tempted me with a common denominator in the speech, I addressed my colleagues from BSP, and so I changed what I thought to say. The common denominator is: there is a crisis in society, there is a crisis of confidence in parties, there is a crisis of trust in institutions. Don't make it pay for everyone, pay for the institutions, don't do it, it's a way to get fresh blood in, and so on, not to quote from memory everything. Colleagues, there's been such a crisis. There is, and it's very heavy. My claim is that's not the medicine. You're very wrong. If you think that majority in general is a medicine to solve the crisis of confidence in the political elites in Europe, in the world, and in particular Bulgaria, you are completely mistaken. I'll give you one example, because the minutes are running, and there are only five. France - 100% majority choice, for many years - severe crisis, yellow vests. Should we talk more? In addition, the majority elected president with great confidence, a representative of the New Wave in politics, the old political classes ignored in the last elections, severely ignored, and France in the worst crisis of trust at least as a manifestation. And you want us to treat our democracy with what cannot cure the oldest and greatest democracy in Europe? No, colleagues. You're very wrong. The diagnosis is correct, the drug is totally wrong. And that the preferential vote is not at all majority and there is no element in it, or not to say almost any element, there is no point in wasting our time explaining it. The real majority is to go out without the brand, with your name, with your words, with your message, with your program, with your promise, with your loyalty and honesty. And the fact that your party has done, as you have done, a vision for Bulgaria, the whole asset of the party, and we are now doing our program? That this program will be liked by one or two million voters and someone to climb on it and by 7% to do what? Get you some fresh blood? No, it's a scam. It's demagogy, let's not be cheating. It's demagogy. For this reason we believe that your attack on GERB, without being their lawyer, your attack on GERB all the time, it also started with us, but thank God that you corrected yourself and started talking that from the first moment, we have a consistent position on preferences. Your attack on GERB is of interest to the majority vote, supported the referendum, want 240 majority elected MPs and will have 160 MPs to tell you, and you know this very well. The example, I regret that I was given this fine example that what more loved person in Bulgaria than our favorite Stefan Danailov? So what? The unknown then, my respects to my friend and colleague Menda Stoyanova, who voted majority? Who chose Stefan Danailov's personality?! They chose the brand GERB, which promised something, another question is whether they fulfilled it, and therefore voted for the unknown candidate. And now we're advocates of democracy. I wouldn't want to answer Mr. Kutev because I'm getting into his gum. What democracy, what salvation of democracy, what things do you say here, from this tribune? Yeah, there's a crisis of trust in the whole system. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating. At first you took a minute while you were making the speech, though.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u883	No, we're not.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u884	The crisis of trust will be resolved by working for the benefit of the people, not with such debates as today, except for this point. On this point, the debate was meaningful. The other points were bullshit, disgusting to people, forgive me, I don't have that language. The contribution, precisely you who fought, you mean that you are fighting for people's trust, was not small in this chasm debate today on these issues. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u885	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u886	Dear Mr. Tsonev, you are one of the few people, because here the accepted address is the honourable gentleman, so Mr. Tsonev, you are one of the few people to whom I always say it with the true content of this, because I have always respected you as a parliamentarians and a person who thinks and stands for positions. Here, however, with regard to the democratic system, the state of society, the crisis of this system and the elites as a whole, including not only political ones, you and I are just diametrically passing each other. I don't believe we can find any common ground there. By the way, I am glad that this debate worked out because it shows this diametric gap, and on top of all that, it should actually be normal, at least judging by the party's belongings. After all, you belong to a liberal party, I belong to a socialist, so if we didn't have this gap, it would probably even be scary. So with all due respect to you, I would nevertheless like to return the subject to the crisis of democracy, which at no time do I consider foolish, naive or untenable. On the contrary, it is something, it is a challenge, who will be the road....... whether the one you propose or the one I am talking about will show the future............................ I deeply believe that the path of the attempts of the party system in some way to involve the discontent of the citizens, to think about it, to break it through with various mechanisms is the right way. This is a democratic road, this is a European road, and I believe in it deeply. This argument will end somewhere in the future. I guess he won't be in this room. It's okay to have it between you guys, but I think... That's why I said: the mechanisms the DPS works with are one thing, the mechanisms we work with are another, so...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u887	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Second line? Here you are, Mr. Ebatine, and after you for the third line Mr. Jablyanov. [[DPS lines.]] Yeah, there's a line. Excuse me, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u888	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Tsonev! We held a meeting this morning of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. If you remember, both you and Mr Hamid, I said that in terms of this text, the DPS would become a lightning rod in relation to its proposal, however right we are from a legal point of view and from a justice point of view. Isn't that right, Mr. Tsonev? Because the DPS is a special party, we are good when we need to be used in terms of bills that are of national importance, but when we stand for things that concern the justice of the political system, we become that political entity to which another political entity sews, in order to denigrate it and to be ethnised with regard to the DPS. That is, we have been here all night watching this debate become a debate about the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. As for you fellow Members of the BSP, many arguments have been made regarding the preferential vote. We DPS don't cancel the preferential vote. We are against this unfair threshold of 7% and we stand up for our position, which is consistent with our voter. However, you, who are too thoughtful, there were even people who are speaking, almost not found in the Leipzig Process and are the new Georgi Dimitrov, you who are so conceived in terms of this preferential vote, neither of you has proposed a different proposal, a different threshold, which shows that you have no serious attitude towards it, but only want to take advantage of populism. And if you were so sincere about your democratic views, why didn't you react when it came to taking a vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u889	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u890	We didn't hear your voice there at all. Thank you. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u891	Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov. You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u892	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Tsonev, honourable Members of Parliament, the crisis of confidence in political systems is a fact and I fully agree with you that technology can be affected limited to this process. Of course, the preference is an additional opportunity to express the will of the citizens, and that is why we are seeking to protect it, taking into account the need for its balanced presence in an overall proportionate vote. What I think is important to note and bear in mind as political forces for the times ahead is that the crisis is not the electoral system, the crisis is the liberal democracy, Mr. Tsonev, and the possibility of overcoming it has a direction called social democracy. Moving towards social democracy, combining social rights and social prospects for citizens with the opportunity to manifest themselves politically and cultivating the sense of social solidarity, this chasm, as some now believe, exists between the ruling layers and citizenship, should gradually become filled. What does that mean? This means the political leadership of the state to start managing the economy, and together with you, through the legislative process on behalf of the people and for the benefit of the broad public strata. Review the legislation, honourable Members! This legislation is on behalf of the people and for the benefit of a very narrow layer of citizens with good property status.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u893	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u894	The reason for the crisis of trust is this. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u895	Thank you. You've already got the floor for the doppelganger, dear Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u896	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, first of all, to return the good words of respect to Mr. Kutev. It's mutual, Mr. Kutev. I respect all my colleagues in this room, so thank you for your warm words. If I understand you correctly, you claim that I denigrate the crisis of trust that there is and the gap that is built between political elites, between politicians, between government and government. No, I don't underestimate her at all. On the contrary, I believe that the gap is critical and that is what our entire party thinks. And you will see in our program, which will soon come out, very clear and accurate analyses of this topic and proposals. So we don't get away with it. I'll tell you where we get away with it. You believe that we are making this proposal in terms of the political market, in terms of our terrain on which we are working. No! We don't have a problem with the preference, Mr. Kutev, colleagues. As well as when we discussed the proposal for electronic remote voting in the Commission, I said to my colleagues: the DPS has an interest in introducing electronic remote voting. We now have tens of thousands of hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens voting for us in Turkey. Then they'll vote hundreds of thousands. You bet your ass it is! But we defend the principle position that there are no guarantees for this vote, and in the case of the preference, we do the same not from a party point of view, but from the point of view that this is not a medicine, from the point of view that this is demagogy. I will agree that it is not only a corporate vote, at least Mr. Milkov is proof of this and other colleagues, but is a tool, a way through which this can be done. I think we have very clearly distinguished our positions with this clarification that our position is not in view of our terrain and our close party interests. Mr. Zablyanov, I have nothing to add, we are of the same opinion. "There is a need for social policy, it can be implemented by a liberal economy. We have shown this many times, and in our new programme you will see it - social policies through a liberal economy and through a market. My dear friend Ebatine, it was a very nice line from you and what you said this morning. Yes, so is the DPS very often used as a lightning rod and there is discontent against us. But I will end with an Eastern proverb that you know perfectly well: No one throws stones at a tree that gives no fruit. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u897	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Mirchev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u898	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Firstly, I would like to say why this meeting is in the middle of the night, tired, when journalists are no longer in the same group as during the day. This happens for one simple reason and this is exactly the elimination of preferences. It has been heard that this amendment is not the removal of preferences. At the moment the threshold is 7%, this amendment turns them into 101%. This is a complete destruction of preferences because the ruling majority of GERB and DPS are afraid of protests. There are already people out there protesting, it's not clear how many they'll be tomorrow. And you hope that when these amendments are adopted in the middle of the night, there will be no protest. Really DPS are consistent, they don't like preferences. Colleagues, the things I'm going to say in the next sentences, I'm not saying them with malice or to offend you. Your party is such a structure and so you have chosen, it is your decision, I cannot criticize you for it, but you do not like preferences because you are a militaryized structure. You have your party elite, and preferences threaten the party elite. The problem is that the policies you implement are related to the fact that when the elite is threatened, your entire structure may collapse. Therefore, in the past, the two Members of your party, who had preferences, were voted out in the last row. This is why things happened in the same way with the colleague of this National Assembly. You are afraid that the elite will lose because they will no longer be able to rule their own party. That's why you're sitting on the Ambrazor like Matrosov and defending this amendment because you're afraid for yourself. This is your party, this is how you created it, you can manage it with your request. It's just that it's important for society to know these things and to know why you're really against preferences. On the other hand, we have GERB. GERB is the European party, the Euro-Atlantic party defending European principles, and in Europe the majority element is embedded in a number of countries, including one part of them is much more developed than we are. They have defended this majority element of whether from populism, from being pretending to be a European party, I do not know, but today they have completely turned their opinion to 180%. What you colleagues of GERB are doing is destroying a democratic achievement, namely the preference. The question remains: on what basis is this certification between you and between DPS? And since I fully agree with my esteemed Mr. Tsonev, we do have a crisis in society, we also have a political crisis. This crisis is due to two things, Mr. Tsonev. One is the policies we produce here. The other thing is that people don't see their representation in this room. On the second problem, the solution was precisely preferences. People, when they recognize a political platform, also recognize those who want this platform and programme to be implemented by them to whom they can go and have felt that they can contact them and express their position and their opinion. This particular crisis of lack of representativeness is resolved through preferences. The political crisis appears precisely from the policies we produce here. And it is today that we do not understand and hear the Bulgarian population at all. We are creating policies that are against what Bulgarian citizens want because there is no politics in Bulgaria anymore, and as colleague Vigenin says, we have a certification between Bankya and the barbecue in Boyana. Colleagues from GERB, DPS will not pay the price. As I said, they are a more specific party and are thus strong, but you will lose a lot because you do not understand how far away you are from the interests of the people and from what they want. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u899	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. Come in, dear Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u900	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Mirchev, your vocabulary is only fear, military structure!? You dream about it, Mr. Mirchev. We haven't had fear before 1989, Mr. Mirchev. And then we had no fear. And then you could not crush the democratic population of Bulgaria. Remember that, Mr. Mirchev! And here, as for the struggle of the elites, no, the DPS is not afraid as a political elite of its voters, but 29 years we take care of the interests of all Bulgarian citizens. And understand this.. we do not divide them into a principle, whatever he was: ethnic, religious and any other. Remember that, Mr. Mirchev! If you're genetically burdened, we don't have that kind of problem. I guarantee it! Our democracy is a genetic burden. Democracy! [[Single applause from DPS.]] Understand this thing, Mr. Mirchev. What price will the DPS pay? I must tell you that for 29 years, and perhaps more, all political parties that have failed on the political field and market, as you use, are then justified by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. And somehow they don't get 29 years. We are not responsible for the political weakness of any other political party. We've got ours. And we don't forget that, Mr. Mirchev. We don't forget it in front of our constituents. We all have to work in the field. Everyone! And we don't forget that, Mr. Mirchev! But words like fear don't exist in our dictionary. And find out, Mr. Mirchev! For us, it's a diametric gap. It's not worth anything. If you talk about values, you'll find them here. They are human and European. And your complexes for European values are not ours. We wear them genetically, Mr. Mirchev. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u901	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Is there another line? You have the floor, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u902	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mirchev, I will also agree that there is a crisis of trust, I will also agree that this is not some Bulgarian and unique case. The crisis of trust is not because of one or another electoral technology, its presence or its absence from a particular electoral code. The crisis of confidence is because very often political elites refuse to be responsible because they are therefore elites to be responsible. This is the main function of a political elite. The discharge of responsibility I am also talking here in general, not even about the specific case, through seemingly democratic instruments, and the fall of political responsibility on voters because they have decided, leads to a crisis of trust. Because democracy is representative, voters choose their representatives so that they can make the decisions and therefore be responsible. Where there are problems, the problem is that sometimes some make the decisions and others bear the responsibility. As for your concern that GERB will fail because of one or another proposal of the DPS. If GERB fails, it will fail because of its decisions, not because of DPS, not because of BSP. In recent years, in which one way or another I have participated in GERB's party life, I have seen that there we are looking for responsibility and guilt, for any failure, within myself, and not outside of us, and we will continue on this path. But don't create the illusion...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u903	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u904	...that one technical solution or another would solve some crisis of trust, and by the way, as my follower, who...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u905	Thank you, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u906	... deals with creativity and you can read my article on this topic for the reference, since 2014. Search for it. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u907	Here you are, Mr. Mirchev. Come on in. You have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u908	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Letifov, you misunderstand me. I didn't say you were a failed party. Many parties are failing around you and it seems that GERB has come to order. I can't agree with you on fear. Your party is holding your electorate through fear that everyone is against them, that no one is defending their interests. So at one point, you also acquired the parliamentary group of "Attacka" so that you could find a boxer on the other side of the political field and keep your people in fear. Your party has always loved to share the citizens. She did it diplomatically, but that's the foundation of your policy. I will tell Mr. Bikov: Mr. Bikov, it is precisely the preference that builds a stronger connection between the voter and the chosen one himself. And I will repeat what I have also said in my speech: these subversive games and agreements that you are playing with the DPS lead to some policies that work exactly against citizens, and therefore always, as long as you are in this agreement, we will have a crisis both in politics and in society.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u909	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. Any other speeches? Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u910	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Stoynev just passed by and said: "Come on, let's hear something. " [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We GERB don't lie, we tell each other the truth. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Thank you. Give me five minutes and they'll pay for it. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Someone said deligrated systems or a control system. And thank you, Mr. Simov, for the wonderful ad, we're from Plovdiv. There's no deligrated system, there's deligrated parties. When I listened and for ten or eleven hours I kept silent, I had no intention of speaking thanks to Mr. Stoinev. All your speeches sound to your logic. You are descendants of a centralized party from the diapers, from top to bottom children are born and even in the diapers in the Mercedes, are predestined where they will learn where, where, what they will work. You don't know what it's like... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You have worked in conditions of democracy, but to use democratic principles and to see what the life of democratic parties is like, so you think so. You can't think otherwise. You'd be surprised if you thought otherwise. You are carved from the top to the bottom as rectangular, square thinking, and so you will think as long as there is this party in this world.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u911	Preferences, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u912	When we talk about... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We're talking about preferences here. I've been elected twice in my city with preferences. I have to tell you that when a democratic party, not a communist party, chooses with preferences, those who vote for you, do not vote for you alone, they vote for you and for which list you are placed on, whether they meet their values, their battles, their democratic thinking, and then they will support. Because I, if I become a preferential candidate in your party, have no one to vote for me in Plovdiv. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I can be in an environment that will follow the line, the path, the ideas of this party, where you enter into its quota. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That doesn't matter. Whatever I came to Plovdiv for, I've been chosen for everything, for you I doubt. So when you talk about the problems of the elite, democratic parties do not have these problems. First, there the choice begins from bottom to bottom through the lowest organizations and they start to offer even which civil quota to be, and it is judged according to the philosophy of this party. Then a democratic party, with democratic leadership, evaluates whether the candidate will be useful, puts him in its civil quota, arranges him in his place, and he, becoming an MP, an adviser from this party's civil quota, cannot do rural tricks in it, but will comply with the line with the one for which they have proposed and elected him. When you talk about elite problems. The problem of the elite is in the communist repainted Socialist Party, because its leadership and all the leaders are millionaires, and those people are poor and socially weak. That's the problem with the elite. Mr. Tsonev was right today, saying that a party, when going to the local, to the central government, should programme its staff, because here, in each of the committees, there should be decent, qualified people in each of the areas to lead the debates, to make laws. So stop this debate, it's a funny cry for you. You have another philosophy, you have grown up by other laws, and by those laws your party will perish. Let democracy evolve. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u913	Thank you, dear Mr. Gurnevsky. - What's the line? The way you're holding Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u914	Mr. Chairman, under your leadership this Parliament has achieved something unique. I recently read a book by Douglas Adams. Turns out the Vogons aren't literary characters, they're here among us. My procedure is with you, Mr. Chairman. When you see a vogon on the stands, please take it away from him. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u915	I'm glad you're reading books, dear Mr. Bojankov. I'm glad. Read books! Here you are, dear Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u916	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Let's get back to the debate and, more specifically, the preface. Preferences are, however, a major start in our electoral process, however disliked by some politicians or parties. It has also proved that the system of preferences, the way it works, works without fail. As said by colleague Milkov, 58% of voters in the last elections benefited from this. But with this, what are we offered? We are offered front-row positions to the favourites of the party's leadership, not allowing voters, party members, sympathizers, to make a certain rearrangement of the list. Here, we also received some criticism that we did not offer another percentage or something else to another electoral system. Colleagues, we cannot offer 10 or 5%, we are satisfied with the current electoral process, the current electoral system and the seven percent. The other thing I want to say. Thanks to the fact that there is a system that works and works, the percentage of voters has also increased. In this way representation is also received by the small parties in parliament. There are a wider range of represented people, and most importantly, colleagues, if we remove this thing, it will artificially increase the weight of parties that are low in electorate rates. In this way I address especially the colleagues from GERB, you will have to enter into political marriages, and you will always be on the side of the bride. In this regard, I would like to address the contributors to Mrs. Alexandrova and Mr. Kirilov, to say how does this proposal correspond to the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code, which they do? I suppose Mr. Kirilov, as a gentleman, will come out and say, does he support this proposal? We want to know whether GERB supports this proposal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u917	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs to plenary. I put to the vote the Commission's proposals to create a new paragraph with the corresponding numbering and text according to the Commission proposal. Vote 157 MPs: 99 against 58 abstentions. The motion is accepted. For a negative vote, please, Mr. Siddy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u918	Dear colleagues! Me and my colleagues, the IMRO Patriots, voted against it, because we believe that the preferential vote is one of the best achievements in our electoral system. What did you guys do today? In a referendum, 2 million people voted for a majority vote, but today you took away their opportunity. You let the parties determine exactly who to enter this building. You took away the opportunity and motivation of the people behind the list to work actively for themselves and for their party. I did not believe that we IMRO Patriots, part of the ruling majority, would call on the President to veto the adopted texts today and I say to you that I and my colleagues, the IMRO Patriots, will support the veto, if any. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u919	Thank you, dear Mr. Siddy. Moving on, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u920	On the Commission's report, a proposal from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 311 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: The decisions of the Central Election Commission under para 2 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1, t. 1 and 2 may be appealed before the Supreme Administrative Court in accordance with Article 2. 58.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u921	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 18. They voted 99 MPs: 80 against 13, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u922	Paragraph 16 of the Commission's basic report. Proposal from the MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 16 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u923	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 16. They voted 105 MPs: 94 against 8, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u924	Paragraph 17. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 17 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u925	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 17. Vote 101 MPs: 86 against 4, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u926	Proposal from the MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid: A new §... is being created: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 350, para. 1 the words "lived in the last three months in the Republic of Bulgaria or in another Member State of the European Union" shall be deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u927	Statements? Mr. Hamid, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u928	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! With this proposal, we propose that the seclusion of elections for the European Parliament be dismissed. You know this is our old proposal, but here we have new arguments. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The European Parliament, with a huge majority, adopted a resolution, and here I have to thank the MEPs from the political party GERB for all of them in favour of this resolution. I hope you have the same understanding on this issue, because in this resolution, colleagues, etc. 12 The European Parliament says: "It proposes that all citizens of the Union, including those residing in a third country, should be given the right to vote in the elections to the European Parliament. Believes that this will ultimately give all citizens of the Union the same right to vote in the European elections on the same terms, regardless of their residence or their citizenship; Resolution of the European Parliament, colleagues, with a huge majority, supported by all MEPs of GERB. Thank you for your support in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u929	- What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Karadayi, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u930	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I understand that there is an understanding of the proposed texts by Mr. Tsonev and Mr. Hamid, and that is why there may be no desire to speak, but let us remind you, once again, that, colleagues, this pathos, which was under the previous paragraph in relation to the preferences, I just want to point out to you that mostly colleagues were trying to suggest that the preference was being removed. No, she wasn't going away there was a question of having a normal threshold of preferences to produce an effect. But here, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, we are talking about compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, which in art. 42, para. 1 says which Bulgarian citizens have the right to vote, as well as the Constitution says in art. 5, para. 1 that laws cannot contradict it. In this Election Code, however, there are some texts that contradict the Constitution and take away the right of the Bulgarian citizen to be able to vote at all. And you are talking about preferences, yes, honourable Members, fighting for low, high thresholds or what preferences, but which ones? Taking away the right for the Bulgarian citizen to be able to vote at all, it is absolute demagogy to fight for any preferences. First, to allow Bulgarian citizens to be able to vote, to exercise their right to vote, to be candidates, and then to remain as a derivative on this subject all technical issues, where it is their place to settle in law, because they are not regulated in the Constitution. Therefore, I do remain convinced that there is clarity in the MPs on the particular text that we have proposed and will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u931	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid. They voted 103 MPs: 24, against 32, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise, lines and applause from DPS.]] Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u932	Proposal by the National Representative Anna Alexandrova for the creation of a new § 18. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 354 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: The decisions of the Central Election Commission under para 2 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1, t. 3 and 4 may be appealed before the Supreme Administrative Court in accordance with Article 4. 58.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u933	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 19. They voted 103 MPs: for 67, against 15, abstentioned 21. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u934	Proposal from the MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid: A new §... is being created: ????????????????? Article 360 to issue. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u935	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u936	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have understood and seen with the vote that has just been cast, how the people of democracy prohibit Bulgarian citizens from being able to exercise their right to vote, which is guaranteed by the Constitution, is written in the directives which determine the order and manner of voting in the European Union. Moreover, there is an explicit resolution of the European Parliament where the Bulgarian MEPs vote for the European Parliament, but when we come to Bulgaria, their parties do the opposite. The European citizens for the development of Bulgaria thus develop Bulgaria, as well as the Socialist Party with their votes and their behaviour. We've been witnessing this demagogy all day today! Moreover, they will now vote for a text that is a banned list! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let's make the Election Code a law for voting, not a law to prohibit voters from being able to vote. At the very least, this thing to do, to achieve. Everything else is demagogy! Europeans in Brussels - exactly reverse actions in Bulgaria! Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, this is what we have been doing all day, and we have heard about the rights of the Bulgarian citizens we have listened to in the last hour an hour and a half with many different arguments, but in a different thesis that the DPS wanted with those proposals to eliminate the preferences, it was a demagogy and your suggestion! The DPS offers a fairer threshold for the effect of preferences, but in the particular case when limiting the rights of Bulgarian citizens neither do we see this pathos nor do we see that concern for the rights of Bulgarian citizens given to them under the Constitution. So are the 10:00 a.m. votes. I do not see any European citizens for the development of Bulgaria. I do not see that they have supported the rights of Bulgarian citizens to be able to exercise their constitutional law. More than that! Immediately thereafter, at 10:27 p.m., honourable Members, I see one of the BSPs who supported the constitutional law of Bulgarian citizens. And I am convinced that he was convinced of his vote because that's what the Constitution said, however, immediately afterwards.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Now, however, after all this debate that we have been listening to, all the MPs concerned about the rights of Bulgarian citizens who are not regulated in the Constitution and by law must determine the order and the way there were very concerned about the rights, but the guaranteed rights of the Constitution are ready to violate them, as you did in the previous vote. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Now you have the chance and the opportunity to vote to prove that you are really concerned about the rights of Bulgarian citizens, the constitutional order, the European development of Bulgaria and to be proud and worthy European citizens, and not with a behavior in Brussels, with reverse actions in Bulgaria! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u937	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid to create a new paragraph. 360. They voted 109 MPs: 26, against 42, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. Here you are, Mr. Hamid, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u938	Thank you, Madam President. I haven't been able to vote, and I'm asking for a re-vote procedure. I was not able to vote until I thought which of the two conditions has been placed on a ban list so far on those who have been convicted of a crime, and those whom the court has put under suspension, i.e. madmen with a judgment.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u939	Mr. Hamid!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u940	Which of these two conditions meet two million Bulgarian citizens? Tell me!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u941	Mr. Hamid, please! We understand your procedure. Please, re-election mode. They voted 114 MPs: 24, Against 55, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. [[Single applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u942	Proposal of the MPs Volen Siderov, Desislav Chukolov and Nikolay Alexandrov: A new §... is being created: ????????????????? In Article 365, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Everywhere in point 1, the words "or the coalition" shall be deleted; 2. A new point 1a with the following content shall be inserted: 1a. a proposal from the coalition signed by the person (s) representing the coalition or by the person (s) expressly authorised by it (s) and containing, in addition to the props under point (a). 1 and an indication of which candidate from which party of the coalition was asked; The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u943	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. They voted 108 MPs: for 5, against 38, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u944	Under § 18 "Contributor text'. Proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 18, which becomes § 20................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 371, para. 1 the following additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 is added at the end, which may be up to 100. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 is finally added with the number 100 added in front of it [[Noise and lines.]] Plus a hundred, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u945	Plus 100.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u946	By making a proposal here with the corresponding symmetrical "votes" already art. 261. PRESENT COLOR KARAYANCHEVA: Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the version of § 18, which becomes § 20. Vote 94 MPs: 75 against 17, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u947	Proposal of the MPs Volen Siderov, Desislav Chukolov and Nikolay Alexandrov: A new §... is being created: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 3 is repealed; 2. In para. 4 words by para. The following points are inserted after point 3 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u948	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. They voted 105 MPs: 3 against 51, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u949	Proposal of MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. The preference (preffers) for individual candidates shall be valid if the applicant has received actual votes not less than the national electoral quota.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u950	Statements? I can't see. I'm voting on the new § 21. Voted 103 MPs: 84, against 17, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u951	Proposal of MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid: A new §... is being created: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 396 A.D. 1 words have lived for at least the last 6 months in the respective locality The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u952	And next thing you know, it's identical.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u953	Except with another member, it concerns art. 397. Proposal of MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid: A new §... is being created: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In addition, the Commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 words have lived for at least the last 6 months in the respective locality
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u954	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the first unsupported proposal of the MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid, which concerns Art. 396. They voted 114 MPs: 20, against 57, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the second proposal of the MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid, which the Commission does not support. It is in connection with art. 397. They voted 113 MPs: 20, against 52, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u955	Proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova for the creation of a new § 19. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 402 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: The decisions of the Central Election Commission under para 2 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1, t. 2 and 5 may be appealed before the Supreme Administrative Court in accordance with Article 5. 58.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u956	Statements? I can't see. I'm voting on the new § 22. 100 MPs voted: 78, against 21, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u957	Under § 19 "Contributor text." The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 19 be rejected. Proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 19, which becomes § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 1 the following additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 is added at the end which may be up to 100. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 is added at the end of the 100-plus. To be symmetrical with the other members we accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u958	I put to the vote the rejection of § 19. They voted 105 MPs: 91, against 8, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of § 19, which shall become § 23. Vote 95 MPs: 62, against 26, abstentioned 7. ............................................... The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u959	By § 20.. the text of the importer. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 20 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u960	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the rejection of § 20. Vote 101 MPs: 88 against 8, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u961	Proposal of MP Georgi Svilenski and group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Paragraph 20a is inserted: "Twenty-sixteen-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The number in the ballots of the parties, coalitions and committee committees shall be determined by lot by the municipal electoral commission held in the presence of representatives of the parties, coalitions and committee candidates registered no later than 31 days before the election day. The draw of lots shall be made publicly and registered candidates, observers and representatives of the mass media may also be present. In case of identity, parties and coalitions that registered candidates for municipal councilors or mayors in the municipal electoral commission have the same ballot number for each type of election for which they have registered candidates in the municipality. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The result of the lot under para. 1 shall be announced by a decision of the municipal electoral commission in accordance with Article 1. 87, para. 2. 3. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The parties, coalitions and committee committees which have not registered candidate lists for all types of elections in the municipality do not participate in the lot and no number is assigned to them and no blank order is left in the ballot. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u962	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. They voted 101 MPs: 24, Against 55, abstention 22. The proposals are not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u963	Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 433 para. 1 is amended as If an error is made when completing the minutes, the sectary electoral committee shall destroy the wrong protocol by placing the "wrong" sign and signing all members of the sectary election commission. The sectional election commission shall return to the municipal electoral commission the incorrect protocol and the factory number shall be verified by the number of the minutes entered in the minutes for the surrender and acceptance of the electoral papers under art. 215, para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u964	Statements? Mr. Kirilov, come in. Is it an editorial thing?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u965	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor on this provision, which is the third case in which we will support the opposition's proposal, Cornelia Ninova's and a group of MPs, in connection with the removal of the so-called second original protocol. We've been very serious about this matter. We have concerns about the fact that the lack of an alternative option to react immediately to the wrong original protocol could delay the election process in specific section polling stations, but we have supported this proposal consistently here for the third time in order to stress that we support the tendency to discipline the sectary electoral commission to not hurry in shaping the protocol, to use drafts and to achieve a more precise and strict certification effect and consequence in this document of the electoral process, which is, in fact, the most important document in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u966	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 24. Vote 110 MPs: 108, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u967	Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 444, para. the second sentence is deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u968	Continue with the 26th proposal by Yordan Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u969	Proposal of MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In addition, the Commission The preference (preffers) for individual candidates shall be valid if the applicant has received actual votes not less than the municipal electoral quota.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u970	Statements? I can't see. I shall put the new Articles 25 and 26 to the vote. Cancel the vote. First, we vote on the newly born § 25. Vote 96 MPs: 94 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on the creation of § 26. Vote 116 MPs: 76 against 35, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u971	Proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 27: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: The time limits under the Administrative Procedure Code and the Civil Procedure Code for the removal of irregularities of the complaint, the submission of a written reply to the complaint, the submission of a conclusion to an expert and the parties' summoning shall not apply. The Court of Justice may set a time limit for carrying out a procedural act which may not be shorter than one day and longer than three days. 2. Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: The Court of Justice shall rule on the legality of the decision of the municipal electoral commission within 14 days of the initiation of the proceedings, considering only the circumstances set out in the appeal lodged within the period laid down in para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 3. Paragraph 8 is amended as follows: The decisions and orders of the court of proceedings may be challenged before the Supreme Administrative Court within 7 days of the notification to the parties. 4. In para. The second sentence of the second sentence is replaced by a comma and after the words "wrong" in the statement is added to the statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u972	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the newly born § 27. Vote 97 MPs: 75, against 20, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u973	Proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 462 is Where the court has annulled the decision of the municipal electoral commission due to an incorrect municipal electoral quota or preferences (preffers), the municipal electoral commission shall determine the results of the vote in accordance with art. 453 and 454.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u974	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the newly born § 28. They voted 107 MPs: 79 against 28, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u975	Dear Madam President, we are now moving on to the Additional Report. Proposal of the National Representative Diana Savateva and a group of MPs: A new § 21 is being created: .................................................................. Article 475 is repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The motion has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u976	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the National Representative Diana Savateva and a group of MPs. They voted 108 MPs: for 6, against 47, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. We're going back to the main report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u977	Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 30: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 496 para. The first sentence shall be added to the first sentence, with the exception of the infringements under Article 3. 474, 475, 480 and 484, where the penalty is imposed by decision of the Central Election Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u978	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the created new § 30. 125 MPs voted: 94, against 28, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u979	Proposal of the MPs Volen Siderov, Desislav Chukolov and Nikolay Alexandrov: A new §... is being created: ????????????????? In paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions, point 12 is repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. That's the main report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u980	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. They voted 122 MPs: 14 against 54, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u981	Proposal by the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... In the additional provisions of § 1, p. The 15th sentence third after the words "Personal blogging" is added, except for the profiles in the social media networks referred to in the letters "a" and "b".
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u982	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the newly born § 31. They voted 124 MPs: 96, 26, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u983	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am moving on to the Committee on Legal Affairs' Additional Report. According to the text of the importer for § 21, there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal which is reflected in § 37. The Commission supports, in principle, the importer's text, but proposes to reject it as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 37.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u984	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 127 MPs: 39, against 65, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting for the rejection of § 37, as it is reflected in its systematic place. Vote 116 MPs: 93, against 20, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u985	From the additional report under § 22 there is a proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 33: ................................................ The transitional and final provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Election Code shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In para. 1 sentence first, the words "after 1 January 2018" shall be deleted and, in the second sentence, the words "samely produced" shall be deleted. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: Until 31 March 2020, the Central Election Commission shall adopt a roadmap for the experimental remote voting and shall determine the order for its production. 3. Alinea 4 is canceled. 4. In para. 13 at the beginning of the sentence, the first entry shall be added to the list by 31 July 2019. 5. In para. 14, p. 29 words. The Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 5 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts 6. In para. 22 words in the law shall be replaced by the Central Election Commission. A new sentence second is created: "The use of qualified electronic signature or identification on the basis of data stored in information funds is permitted. 7. In para. 33 words in the elections for Members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u986	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u987	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I cannot fail to make a statement on this paragraph. This speech will be extremely brief, but I think it should be convincing enough for all colleagues and citizens who monitor the development of the process of electronic remote voting. I stress that the work done so far on electronic remote voting is not cancelled, but that it continues. This is what we have explicitly pointed out by including obligations for the Central Election Commission to adopt a roadmap for the experimental remote electronic vote and to determine the order for it to take place by 31 March 2020. Furthermore, we have provided alternatives in para. 22, which provides for the possibility of identification not only by electronic identification through personal documents but also for other alternative means of identification. I stress that these proposals were made in the course of the discussions by representatives of the Bulgarians abroad and I will quote specifically the name of engineer Stefan Manov from Toulouse, France. I believe that although it is postponed until the legal objective has been proven to be fulfilled. Security of the vote, security of the system and protection of the secret of the vote, I believe that our efforts to develop this method of voting will continue in a successful direction. In addition, I will share with you that, at the invitation of a formation of the extra-parliamentary opposition, I was invited to an electronic remote vote for internal elections, to elect candidates for MEPs in the European Parliament. I congratulate these colleagues! I congratulate Ivo Mirchev, who is obviously one of the most active administrators of this system, which is made with the voluntary efforts of enthusiastic members and sympathizers of this formation. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u988	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Come in for technical editing, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u989	In Paragraph 33 of the supplementary report, which I reported earlier, we missed:............................................................................................. In fact, the text takes place: In the transitional and final provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, the following amendments and additions are made in § 145.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u990	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. First, let's vote on the editorial amendment made by Mrs. Alexandrova just now. They voted 119 MPs: 78, against 18, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of § 22, which shall become § 33, with the corresponding editorial amendment. They voted 122 MPs: 64, against 31, abstention 27. The motion is accepted. Come in for a negative vote, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u991	Madam President, honourable Members! At the risk of being accused of wasting the time of this House, I am obliged to pay attention by my negative vote to the position of the DPS parliamentary group on this topic: a remote electronic vote. I said in my previous statement that if we approach from a close party point of view, the DPS is interested in introducing an electronic remote vote. But we are against it, we have been against it, and we will continue to be against it, because there are many questions that are not answered. It is not true that the main problem is whether the network itself can be secure, whether it can be hacked into the IT language system or not. The main problem is who is behind the IP address with the signature, how will they establish the electoral administration or the selection committee, or who controls this vote, who is standing there? There stands the owner of the signature and is he himself or someone to whom he has given it to some coordinator, and so on. Our position on this issue is principled and does not come from our party interest. Do not expect the DPS to support a remote electronic vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u992	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. We'll continue with the main report, won't we, Mrs. Alexandrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u993	That's right, Madam President. Proposal of MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 34: ................. In Annex 1 to art. 248 t. 5.3 is amended as follows: supposed to The preferences (preferences) for a candidate on the candidate list shall be valid if the number of actual votes he has received is not less than the regional electoral quota.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u994	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the created new § 34. They voted 123 MPs: for 85, against 38, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u995	Proposal of MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 35: .............................................................................. In Annex 3 to art. 355 t. 5.3 is amended as follows: supposed to The preferences (preferences) for a candidate on the candidate list shall be valid if the number of actual votes he has received is not less than the national electoral quota.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u996	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the newly born § 35. They voted 116 MPs: 79 against 37, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u997	Proposal of the MPs Volen Siderov, Desislav Chukolov and Nikolay Alexandrov: A new §... is being created: §... Annex 3 to art. 355 is amended as follows: "Acceptance No 3 to art. 355 METHOD AND ROUTE (S) laying down the results of the vote and the allocation of the mandates in elections to Members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria I. General 1.1. The methodology determines the calculation procedures under which the mandates are allocated to members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Bulgaria between the parties and the Committees of Initiatives. 1.2. The Central Election Commission carried out the final distribution of the mandates for members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Bulgaria. II. Determination of the electoral quota 2.1. The total number of real votes cast in the country and abroad shall be subtracted from the total number of actual votes cast under art. 279, para. 1, t. 6. 2.2. The difference in t. 2.1 is divided by the number of Members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Bulgaria. The resulting private is rounded up to the first integer. The resulting whole number is the electoral quota. III. Allocation of mandates to parties, coalitions and initiative committees 3.1. The actual votes received by each party, coalition and initiative committee shall be divided by the electoral quota. 3.2. Independent candidates raised by initiative committees who received actual votes of no less than the electoral quota shall be elected as Members of the European Parliament. Those Committees shall not participate further in determining the outcome of the elections. 3.3. Each party and every coalition shall receive initially as many mandates as the entire number of private ones received by the division under point. 3.1. The decimal part of the private is a decimal remainder that is not taken into account at this stage. IV. Allocation of additional mandates 4.1. From the total number of Members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria, the sum of: (a) the total number of independent candidates selected, and (b) the total number of mandates allocated under point (b) 3.3. 4.2. If the difference by t. 4.1 is equal to zero, additional mandates are not allocated and the distribution of mandates ends. 4.3.1. If the difference by t. 4.1 is more than zero, of the parties, of the coalitions and of the Committees of Initiatives, except for the Committees of Initiatives. 3.2 shall be allocated by one additional mandate, starting with the party or the coalition or by the initiative committee with the largest decimal remainder of the division under point 3. 3.1 and continue with the next decimal residues until the remaining unallocated mandates are exhausted. 4.3.2. If one or more electoral entities (partys, coalitions, initiative committees) have the same decimals and the remaining unallocated mandates are less than the number of electoral entities with the same residuals, the electoral/election entity(s) receiving an additional mandate shall be defined(s) by the Central Election Commission with lots held publicly. 4.4. The total number of mandates received by each party and each coalition is the result under item.3.3, increased by the additional mandate under point 3. 4.3 if the party or coalition concerned receives such an additional mandate. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u998	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. They voted 104 MPs: for 9, against 35, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u999	Proposal of MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. In Annex 5 to art. 453 para. 1, t. 5.2 is amended as follows: supposed to The preference (preffers) for a candidate on the candidate list shall be valid if the number of actual votes he has received is not less than the municipal electoral quota.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1000	Statements? I can't see. We are voting on the new § 36. They voted 115 MPs: for 76, against 38, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1001	Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: The final provision shall be created by § 22a: "Concluding provision' § 22a (1) By 28 February 2019 the municipal administrations shall transmit to the Central Election Commission the electoral lists of citizens who exercised their voting rights in the elections for MPs on 26 March 2017 held by them pursuant to art. 287, para. 8. (2) By 20 March 2019 the Central Election Commission shall verify the data in the lists under para. 1 with data in the population register and update them. (3) On the basis of the lists under para. 1 and after the check under para. 2 The Central Election Commission shall establish the public register of voters under art. 57, para. 1, t. 9 by 31 March 2019 The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1002	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1003	Madam President, honourable Members! Most likely, the rapporteurs are already falling asleep in the stands. I do not know why we are currently looking at the Code until infinity, but, Madam rapporteur, you are currently proposing the proposal, which is under the Final Provision, without voting art. 57. As you remember, we postponed it today, and it is related to the Final Provision, and there is no way we can look at it now without going through art. 57, which we postponed.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1004	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Where are we going back, Mrs. Alexandrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1005	We were just about to propose the vote on art. 57, which we postponed. They're connected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1006	Yeah, but you forgot it, didn't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1007	Read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1008	A new §... is being created: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. point 9 is amended as follows: Nine. establish and maintain a public register of voters who are entered in a name, a single civil number (personal number), a permanent and current address; for this purpose, the General Directorate for Civil Registration and Administration at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works provides the Central Election Commission with free access to the data in the register of the population; 2. A t is created. 9a: 9a. Provides an opportunity for each voter to refer to the register under point 1. 9 by single civil number (personal number); The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1009	Here you go, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1010	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! You most likely wanted to avoid considering our proposal under art. 57 and avoid the debate on the startling figures of the CRO, which came out at the end of last year. I open the statistics and according to GRAO 8 million 382 thousand 894 people live in Bulgaria and according to the National Statistical Institute 7 million 50 000 and 34 people. The difference is 1 million 300,000 people! Where are those dead souls, ladies and gentlemen who are currently on the electoral lists? The difference is 578 thousand people, and adults are about 480. With this proposal we make under art. 57 and in the Transitional and Final Provisions introduced by § 22a, we are still attempting to update these electoral lists and all voting to enter a register to be updated and of each type of choice to show the real picture of voters. Most likely none of you want and is super profitable to you, even though at the moment art. 57, para. 1, t. 9 says: The Central Election Commission keeps a register and has it as an obligation. Ladies and gentlemen, open all your phones, log on to the CEC website, see the registers. See 2017 registers, does this register have it? He's gone, ladies and gentlemen! The CEC has so far failed to fulfil its authority under which it is obliged to maintain this register. It is in this regard that our proposal under art. 57 for this register. After all, the electoral lists should be updated because there are many dead souls and I believe that if you think of the investigation that was done by bTV in the thorn villages you will remember that there was no record of the people who were over 110 years old at the time. It is in this regard that I call on all of you in this Chamber to review this proposal and support it, because it is for the benefit of the Bulgarian voters, for the benefit of the Bulgarian citizens and for the brightening of the Bulgarian lists. Thank you. [[Lowered noise and lines, applause and cheering "Bravo!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1011	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska! You were able to wake up the room and raise the mood. Are there lines? Mr. Karadaye, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1012	We want her back on an encore!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1013	Do you have a bouquet? Encores usually end with a bouquet.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1014	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Don't forget February 14th, Happy Holiday! [[Radio.]] I have a line for Mrs. Klisurska. Ladies and gentlemen, in the proposed text we read that a public register of voters is being created, only in this Election Code and what happens all day, in our country remains one question: which citizens? Because according to art. 42 citizens who are 18 years old, with the exception of those who have been incarcerated and who suffer imprisonment, have the right to elect state and local authorities and to participate in consultations with the people. My question to Mrs. Klisurska is very brief, accurate and clear: as I keep printouts of the votes today, various votes, for electoral lists in which you have included Bulgarian citizens who are over 18 years old, are not placed under suspension and do not tolerate prison sentences, for which Bulgarian citizens are involved here........................... about those under the age of 18 years and those who suffer imprisonment or are placed under detention, or those other Bulgarian citizens who by your vote have been included in the ban lists all day? This question also applies to you, ladies and gentlemen of nationalism, and to you, ladies and gentlemen of the European Development of Bulgaria. I expect to get that answer. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1015	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Is there gonna be a second line? For the duvet, Mrs. Klisurska, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1016	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Karadaye, I will not come to the point in answer to your question. This debate passed during today's vote. You've seen the attitude of the House, I won't comment on it. I will comment on what is currently regulated in the Election Code. 57, para. 1, t. 9 in which it is legally introduced to have this register. And in this t. 9 writes: "He leads a public register of voters. Where is this public register? That's what I'm asking. And our proposal corresponds to what has been introduced into the Law, as well as to the Crossing and Final Provisions, we allow to update the electoral lists on the basis of those who voted in the previous elections to Parliament. So, dear Mr. Karadaye, at the end of the day, we have had this debate and, in essence, to your question, I will not be answered. [[Noise and lines, partial applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1017	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Do we have any other comments? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly concerning art. 57, which is unsupported. They voted 131 MPs: 39, against 68, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. Revoting procedure requested. I'm asking for a re-vote. They voted 135 MPs: 45, against 70, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1018	Thank you. Madam President, I appeal to you to remind Mrs. Klisurska and all Members of the National Assembly the oath according to art. 76, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, which we have all laid down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1019	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. I hope Mrs. Klisurska will read what you recommended to her. Let us now vote on the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs for § 22a, which the Commission does not support. They voted 136 MPs: 44, against 72, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1020	Mrs. Chairman, I'm doing a re-voting procedure for art. 108 in the Commission's main report on page 10. We have to re-vote, because we've rejected everything about video filming everywhere. Here we have voted differently, we should vote again.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1021	This is the proposal of the MP Gergana Stefanova on page 10. The Commission does not support the proposal. Please vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Cancel the vote. Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1022	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, this text was voted and adopted at second reading today earlier in the day. So on the occasion of which text exactly are we going to go back to rethinking it? I'm doing procedure in the manner of conduct. No way, that text's been voted on. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1023	Because everywhere in the main text, Mr. Milkov, video surveillance has been rejected. [[Replication by National Representative Cornelia Ninova]] , and this text is currently being undone, remains hanging in the air. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] He's only been voted once.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1024	I want a re-voting procedure, I'm entitled. It's been voted out once. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We didn't vote on it a third time, we voted on it once.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1025	All right, guys, we're moving on. We're not going to overreact. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1026	Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs: The final provision shall be created by § 22a: "Concluding provision' § 22a. In the Law on the Administrative and Territorial Device of the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 16 t. 1 the number sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss,sssssss,sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss,ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1027	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1028	Madam President, honourable Members! Despite the late hours, I think this is a proposal that we need to consider very seriously. IMRO MPs will support the removal of this border to 150 residents at the permanent address of the respective villages. The presumption is as follows: 350 residents at a permanent address becomes a very high border, especially for villages in Northern Bulgaria, which is much more seriously depopulated than southern Bulgaria. You know, because over the years, there was less investment, there was no highway, and so on, not to go back to these infrastructure problems. If this border of 350 residents remains at a permanent address, no less than half of the villages in Northern Bulgaria will be left without the mayor of the settlement. We believe that this is wrong, and this border is wise to be supported for 150 inhabitants, which Georgi Svilenski did. IMRO MPs will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1029	Thank you, dear Mr. Popovski. - What's the line? I can't see. A statement? Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1030	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, thank you for the support of colleagues from the Patriotic Front. I also hope that colleagues from GERB will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1031	Don't you hope for us?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1032	You support him, don't you? That's what I heard. At first glance, it only reduces the number..350.. to become.150................................................................................................. But this concerns the fate of very small settlements and people want to choose their mayors, and you, and we all say that we are for decentralisation of local government, for bringing together the distance between power and people, and at the same time we say that they cannot determine who is their mayor. You've already taken away their right of reference once before. Now let's hear your argument why don't you? Why don't you want people in these settlements to choose their own mayor of the locality the person who is directly responsible for all the commitments related to the management of the locality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1033	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Prodanov. Colleagues, please take your seats!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1034	Madam President, honourable Members! I also specifically address my colleagues from the DPS here because several times you went out on the stand and talked about disbarment. Right now with this proposal... [[Reply from MP Hamid Hamid.]] Then you'll have a chance to speak out of the stands, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1035	Don't get into a fight. Mr. Hamid, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1036	If I'm in your shoes, I'll put some sort of order in the room after all. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1037	Colleagues, please take your seats in the hall! Go on, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1038	This generally sounds a bit like a minor problem, but in the end all the settlements we put under this regime are with about 500 000 Bulgarian citizens, to whom we cancel the right to elect a mayor, and we make them be forced and appointed. So I call on you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1039	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Gokov, then Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1040	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! This is one of the questions that very much irritates people who live in small settlements and in some way you do not allow themselves to tell themselves who they want to be mayor of the settlement. I'll give you an example of Stara Zagora. It is a municipality with 51 villages. If the border remains as it is now, out of 350 people, there will be elections in 17 villages of these 51. Now tell me, where is justice for the rest of us by 51? How many are there? I don't feel like it right now. Only you have to answer the question. Since this is not worth any budget finances, the Commission is drawn up, it will elect the municipal mayor, so no problem will be organised and elections will be organised for up to 100 people, as we have suggested in this case. I think it would be quite fair to these people. The people in the villages have been neglecting them. All the money on European projects, according to regulations of the Council of Ministers, you pile it up in the big cities. In these villages, the roads are ruined, they're in mud, they don't have medical facilities. On top of that, you don't let these people choose the mayor to be mayor in their village. I don't know why you're doing this.! In fact, I know why you're doing this because you think you're going to take the bigger cities and the city centers, and in the other small villages you're going to appoint the mayors. This is not democratic, and otherwise you talk about democracy, you talk about human rights. Don't these people have rights in these villages?! I call on you to support our proposal so that they can feel equal Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1041	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Mrs. Yankova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1042	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1043	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1044	I take the floor to support the proposal of Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs, citizens living in settlements up to 150 inhabitants, to elect mayors. I'll share my motives. Colleagues, you remember November the mayors of settlements announced that they would protest. Right now they're about 3150. Then Prime Minister Borisov invited them along with a group of ministers. Of course, by all the promises they were offered, they were lied to. They lied to them that budget props would have funds for settlements and, in parallel, one of their demands was for people up to 150 residents to choose the mayor. And I'll tell you why. I, too, have been mayor of the municipality, and I know what the temptation is to appoint an administrator who is loyal to you and to administer you, but he is not the person who is the trusted person who is empowered by the people so that he can find in the village where there is no funds, a civil resource. Because in these settlements there is no financial resource and if there is no person who is trusting to mobilize them, to unite them, to be able to lead the settlement, the settlement remains desolate. As they say in the Rhodopes, no shepherd. Now I'd like to address you. There are 5025 settlements in Bulgaria. I'll give you bad practice from Smolyan Municipality. Colleague Melemov cut 14 mayors' seats. Put them on election mayors. Did you know there was a serious murder in the village of Turenn after a drunken brawl? There's no mail in the village. There's no doctor in the village. It's five neighborhoods. There was a mayor's deputy. Right now it's a tribal self-organization. Two adults died in the village of Kirschovo. And then I got goosebumps and it got really bad in the cold. Their sick son had been in the house with his dead father and mother all week. If there was a mayor's deputy, would it be like this? If you remember the mandate in which you started, you promised in every village a police officer. Let us at least do so, to support our proposal in the settlements of up to 150 inhabitants to choose the person they trust. I'll point to my motives one more time. When you have nothing, when you don't have a budget, when you don't have a doctor, when you don't have a cop, when you don't have an economic unit, you have the opportunity to use the trust of citizens, which is priceless. It's the civil resource to bring them together and lead them. Therefore, our proposal is infinitely important for local democracy, so that people feel united and develop. Let's give them that right. Let us not feel above dominant and powerful as we have decided and how we have decided. That's our offer. I'm addressing everyone. Get over the party decisions you've made so far and support what we offer you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1045	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Are there any lines? Mr. Lazarov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1046	Dear Mrs. Yankova, with all due respect to your speech, there is one problem that you know very well. Offer a solution. I'll tell you: there are settlements in southern Bulgaria, there is a village of Trepetlika, say: 350 are on a permanent address, but since the principle of seclusion, which you voted on... We have been consistent in this policy since 2011 with the principle of settling. The Constitutional Court has spoken. As the DPS are consistent in one's views, so are we consistent in this policy. Then you once referred to the Constitutional Court, now you vote. Mrs. Yankova, there are 20 people voting there. That's how much they have the right to vote. Three hundred and fifty are on a permanent basis, they are also entitled to choose by the current Code of Procedure, but two people vote. I remember there was a show on TV two people had stayed to vote for mayor. They were right about a man and a woman. How do we solve this problem?! It's not the first time he's put himself in this room. It was placed last time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1047	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1048	I'm not gonna tell you how much they're gonna vote. If they both vote, they'll make a choice. That's bad. We parties have to offer people, or they have to make an initiative committee, to broadcast people. But let's give them the right to choose! I am telling you that, for example, in the Smilian region of Gorovo, Valchan, Cheap, Bukakats, Krypticovo, Bukata, there can be no one mayor of Mogilitsa! With the small money, without the car, on foot. And the Jeep that's in Smilyan is one thing. This is Bulgaria. These are the realities of our country. In the municipality of Banite, Davidkovo, the mayor has to serve Bosilkovo, Valchan, Treve and serve in the hard winter when there is no phone connection, there is nothing, there is no mutual assistance! And if we've abandoned people... Let's make a decision. I suggest you make an informed decision. Not to appoint people, but to choose a leader who is empowered and under the Law on Local Self-government to have rights. It wasn't a coincidence that I started with the mayors protesting. There is a problem with the Bulgarian village. We've all abandoned him. There's a problem with local democracy. The big mayors, again I told you, are tempted to behave arrogantly towards the mayors and elected mayors. Let's give them the right to choose the mayor, to unite around a person who's looking for a solution. And that person should be socially significant. We find political faces or they broadcast people to choose from. It is extremely fair today for local democracy, for local self-government, not to neglect it. I appeal to all of you.. most of you have been municipal mayors and advisors.. support this proposal! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1049	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Come in for a statement, Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1050	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support this proposal. We have a few questions. Our first question is: who will be elected by these mayors, those Bulgarian citizens who are over 18 years old, are not placed under detention, are not imprisoned, but are limited to their constitutional right to vote? The same goes for you. Or are these Bulgarian citizens who are guaranteed the right to vote under the Constitution, and the laws cannot violate the Constitution despite your conduct today?! Yes, Mr. Lazarov, you look at me and you say, "You're consistent, and the DPS is consistent, you just don't say in what. I'll tell you. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms is consistent in defending the Constitution, democracy and statehood. Undoubtedly, in your case, both in BSP and GERB, these are not values. On the contrary, you are playing Democrats in Brussels, but in Bulgaria today you are proving once again that you are doing exactly the opposite actions. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen! I'm gonna ask her one more question. In the localities of Lomci Municipality of Popovo, Palamartsa Municipality of Popovo, Kostandenets Municipality of Tsar Kaloyan, and a number of other settlements in Bulgaria where English citizens live, UK citizens we know very well that they do not know Bulgarian, but we learn English around them they have the right to be candidates for mayors of these settlements. In what language will they campaign when you forbid them in this language, in which they will notify their neighbours, to make an informed choice to be able to campaign?! Because we're learning English around them. Yes, Mr. Admiral, that's correct. Those are facts. It's not fiction. You guys go around the country for a while. Look at people's real lives. Enter the settlements. It's not scary. Be closer to the people. We're close to people. We know these things. I'm seeing these people. These citizens of the European Union also have these rights, under the EU directives, which are binding on us. Because we ratified the Treaty on Bulgaria's membership in the European Union. According to our Constitution, they have a higher priority than our laws. Then he asks the question: why are you once again putting our homeland, our country, in a delicate situation? We're embarrassing ourselves again. You are Europeans in Brussels, with reverse actions in Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1051	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Georgi Svilenski. Vote 154 MPs: 77, against 48, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1052	I address my colleagues from GERB. Honourable Members of the Parliament of GERB, on November 12th the Prime Minister accepted the small mayors and promised...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1053	Don't explain, Mrs. Yankova. Request the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1054	...that up to 150 people will support the election of the mayors. Come on, let's say you didn't give them a budget. At least if Mr. Tsvetanov isn't here right now and the Prime Minister hasn't told you...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1055	Mrs. Yankova, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1056	Madam President of the National Assembly, consider the political will of the people who want to choose mayors. Let's make a local democracy. I'm making a motion to re-vote. I'm trying to tell you and agitate you one more time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1057	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. I'm rethinking Mrs. Yankova's proposal. They voted 161 MPs: 80, against 61, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. [[Applause from GERB.]] Continue, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1058	We continue on the additional report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. I present to your attention a proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes, before § 23 by importer, to establish a division named "Transitional and Final Provisions' by § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ (1) In the production of elections for Members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Bulgaria in 2019 the engine vote shall be produced in at least 3000 polling stations, and in the production of general elections for municipal councillors and mayors in 2019 the engine vote shall be produced in at least 6000 polling stations. (2) The Central Election Commission shall determine the number and numbers of the polling stations under para. 1 in which an engine vote shall be made no later than 12 days after the election is scheduled. The Central Election Commission shall lay down terms and conditions for machine voting to ensure the secrecy of the vote, the security of the electoral process and the election results, subject to the requirements of Section III of Chapter 14. (3) In all elections after the general elections for municipal councillors and mayors in 2019, only machine voting shall be produced and paper ballots shall not be allowed, except in the cases referred to in art. 212, para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1059	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 27 by the name of "Transitional and Final Provisions." They voted 136 MPs: 94, against 2, abstention 40. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1060	Paragraph 23. The Office shall enter into force from its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 38, respectively, renumbered.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1061	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the supported text of an importer for § 23, which becomes § 38, which will be renumbered. They voted 139 MPs: 99 against 17, abstentioned 23. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1062	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to make a procedural proposal to consider the next item on the agenda: 5 of the weekly program of the National Assembly 47, para. 1 of the Election Code, tomorrow, because I believe that nothing requires us to face the sunrise in this House. Moreover, I think you will agree that we are definitely abusing some of our colleagues from the Legal Commission, who are meeting for more than 15 hours in a row. Tomorrow's agenda suggests a full discussion on this point. Please consider this point tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1063	Thank you, dear Mr. Vitanov. I put to the vote Mr. Vitanov's proposal that point two of today be watched tomorrow. Vote 148 MPs: 48 against 82, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. Moving on to point two for today: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO OPEN A PUBLIC PROCEDURE BY C.E. 47, AL. 1 OF THE SELECTED CODEX. I give the floor to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mrs. Ilieva, please give us an introduction to the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1064	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to: "COMMODITY" to the Committee on Legal Affairs on a Draft Decision opening a public procedure under art. 47, para. 1 of the Election Code, No 954-02-3, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 6 February 2019. At its meeting held on 13 February 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a draft decision opening a public procedure under art. 47, para. 1 of the Election Code, No 954-02-3, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 6 February 2019. The draft decision was presented by the MP Yavor Bojankov, who pointed out that he proposed that the Committee on Legal Affairs should approve and submit for consideration draft procedural rules for proposals for composition, hearing candidates and election of President, Vice-Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission. He clarified that the term of office of the composition of the Central Election Commission is 5 years old and expires on 21 March 2019 and, according to the Election Code, the procedure for the selection of a new composition should be completed by 21 February 2019. Mr. Bojankov pointed out that non-compliance with these deadlines would be an extremely bad sign and example of the initiative of the legislative body and added that the parliamentary group of BSPs for Bulgaria is demanding the adoption as soon as possible of procedural rules for the election of President, Vice-Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission. Members of the National Assembly Danail Kirilov, Christian Mitev, Emil Dimitrov and Krum Zarkov took part in the discussion. Mr. Dimitrov pointed out that the election of the composition of the Central Election Commission is important to the Bulgarian society and added that it should be preceded by a broad public discussion of the candidates, providing sufficient time for their presentation. He proposed that, in order to respect the publicity of the applications, the vote on procedural rules should take place by 1 July. Mr. Zarkov pointed out that the failure to adopt the procedural rules and the postponement of the election for a new composition of the Central Election Commission is contrary to the provisions of the Election Code, as there is no objective reason for this. He added that the biggest guarantee of the independence of the members of the Central Election Commission is their mandate and the delay in the election of a new composition will not increase confidence in the electoral process. Mr. Dimitrov noted that the current composition of the Central Election Commission shows high professionalism and competence, expressing concern that his change will now lead to difficulties in the upcoming elections. Mr. Kirilov stated that the draft decision was unacceptable and unfounded, stressing that the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly did not allow the National Assembly by a decision in plenary to oblige the Commission to adopt rules. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 5 votes for the European Parliament, 9 votes against the European Parliament and 2 votes abstentioned, suggests that the National Assembly should not support a draft decision to open a public procedure under art. 47, para. 1 of the Election Code, No 954-02-3, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 6 February 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1065	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor to present the motives of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1066	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, those who remain in the Chamber! In accordance with art. 51 of the Election Code, members of the Central Election Commission shall also be elected with a term of 5 years. The new composition of the Commission should be formed no later than one month before the expiry of the term of office of the President. The term of office of the current Central Election Commission expires on 21 March 2019, therefore, if we apply the Law, the procedure for selecting a new composition of the specialised body should end at the latest on 21 February this year. In fact, more motives than that shouldn't be necessary. In fact, this whole procedure should not be necessary because the Law clearly states what the National Assembly should do. I'm telling you honestly, when we decided to raise the issue, I was convinced that the answer would be: "Okay, since you are raising the question, we will, of course. " - I thought you forgot about this procedure or that you are listening to what the positions of other political forces are. But at the moment that you are faced with your responsibility, there is no way that the majority simply refuses to comply with the law. I was amazed when, on the other side, GERB raised their shoulders and said: "There is no point! However, there has always been some reason for this: there is a misunderstanding of a large majority; there is no right candidate; something is really happening by accident. To say, however, that there is no point in fulfilling the law, such a miracle was not. It wasn't! Even more wonderful are the explanations of this behavior. They said, "Okay, why do you want to change the CEC?" Now you've got six people, tomorrow you'll have six people. What is the point? " The meaning is at least double. The first is the law. He should be enough. The second is that once and for all you must understand that even if nominations are party, even if the procedure for raising and appointing is related to political parties and forces, the people in the public administration do not do party work. The people in the CEC nominated by any quota have the same tasks. They are not to keep the interest of BSP or the interest of GERB, or of DPS, but to monitor compliance with the Election Code. This is why the administration is called "Professional" and the parties intervene to construct it so that it meets the political situation in the country. The political situation is changing and therefore the composition is changing to five years. Is that so hard to understand? What's there to think about? I said to us, "You chose them, you chose them." Yes, we chose them when we had a majority, following this law and following this law, we want this mandate to end today and start another. Is that so hard?! They say there will be chaos. That's my favorite argument. It's gonna create chaos because elections are coming. Just so you know, if you've forgotten, there's a series of choices coming up. At least two. In order not to create chaos, this five-year term could become six, six and a half. However, it will not become chaos for at least three reasons. First, in the CEC, besides commissioners who are quite numerous, there are administrators, administration that works. Secondly, whether it becomes chaos depends on the people we broadcast for the new CEC. We can broadcast people who have experience who won't feel there for the first time to learn. Thirdly, nothing stood in the way of these people, or if you consider them, or any party facing their responsibilities, thinking that these people should remain, should be the same, to reassign them. To start a new term, a clean slate. That would have been good for them, too. I will not go into unnecessary theorization, but this is what this mandate is about: ensuring the independence of the body. He must be sure that he has been chosen for a period of time and in this period of time no one can change him. When this period of time expires, this security goes away, these people remain hanging, they become dependent on the will, especially if some of them have ambitions to continue their mandate. Then they are not protected by absolutely no security and will be ready quite naturally to perform tasks other than the Election Code. It is also natural, by the way, from the point of view of chaos: The Central Election Commission has not always been a permanent functioning body. The CEC was also an erratic acting body, elected just before elections, immediately before elections, to organise the elections, then dissolved. The idea of becoming a permanent body is to become a professional body, i.e. to separate from parties. Whether or how it has been achieved, we can think further, but now we have only one thing to say: non-compliance with the law of the National Assembly is a question in times more frightening than the unspokenness of the Central Election Commission. The Central Election Commission to remain or not to remain is an issue that can be overcome. However, the precedent created here is extremely dangerous. He is dangerous because he shows that the so-called law enforcement is actually reaching this building and does not apply here, first. Secondly, from now on, every termal body can start lobbying, working and doing with the respective majority, in order to come up with reasons to stay another month, two, three, year.! Ladies and gentlemen of the House, you don't really have a choice. This isn't about a decision that's disreputable. We are acting under bound jurisdiction and the sole purpose of this decision was to bring you before it. The normal procedure would have been yesterday at that endless Legal Commission, the President of the Commission or the majority that it represents, to say: well, we have understood the sign, here are the procedural rules, this decision is pointless. Instead, he began to explain how the House could not impose on the Committee on Legal Affairs to do anything. Well, ladies and gentlemen, if the plenary cannot assign the Committee on Legal Affairs to do its job if the law cannot do its job, who can say anything to this Committee on Legal Affairs? Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I am still confident that reason and sense of legality will prevail...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1067	They're not in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1068	...and those of you who have stayed here at least as long as we have stayed late, let's do the honorable thing. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1069	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Honourable Members, I open the debate, you have the floor for speeches. Here you are, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1070	Dear Mr. Chairman, I really do appeal to you because it is shameful when it comes to such an important point, colleagues Patriots, GERB, Volya, DPS........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is the debate. It's nice for you to let the bells come in and hear what we're doing in this country. Because it's not normal here is how people should trust us. Is that right, Bikov? I thought people were supposed to trust us. Where are you? People will believe if the law is respected. Right now is the debate about the law, not general talk. Except you're not here. You're a wasteland anyway. You will never obey the law, because it does not come from you. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, let the bells bells come to the Chamber, because the debate is really very, very serious. Here the question is BSP against the others. We want to obey the law until you want to obey the law. At least let's define ourselves, at least have that power to come all here in the hall, and protect ideas, these visions. There's nothing wrong with that, but let's have a debate. But when there are debates, when there is a speech and when there are motives, at least it is to have the respect necessary. If you can't get together, if you're so tired, give it a rest, but in 15 minutes let's be in the gym. But this clearly shows that it is about one thing to respect the law, colleagues. Here the debate is to abide by the law. The only party that wants to follow the law is BSP. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1071	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Members of the National Assembly shall decide when to be in the Chamber and when to participate in the debates. We are continuing the debate. You have the floor. [[Relations from the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev.]] I've already answered you, Mr. Stoinev. Here's your speech, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1072	That's right! Dear Bulgarian citizens, as much as they try to silence the debates and the truth at night, I know that what we will say here today will come to you. Today, the ruling majority of GERB and the United patriots took away your right to vote with a preference, to vote machinely, to appeal decisions before the Supreme Administrative Court and not to specify how many more rights you were taken and the House was complete. They all voted a few times. Now, however, when we have to debate the question whether there will be rule of law in Bulgaria, they are gone. Of course, it's traditional. Today I will not convince you how important and essential it is to comply with the law. I will tell you how untenable their arguments are not to open a procedure for the election of the Central Election Commission (CEC). The first argument, such a choice is not made immediately before the upcoming elections, because it will create chaos. Honourable MPs from the ruling several people, this currently active Commission was elected by the National Assembly on 20 March 2014. The first elections they held were held on 25 May 2014. Two months later, and there was no chaos, and they did well. They were elected two months before the election. Then again, it was elections for the European Parliament. In the same year, in October 2014, this Election Committee also held parliamentary elections and we have not heard of chaos. So the argument: two months before elections no election of the Central Election Commission is made, write it off. The second argument, but this Commission was appointed by BSP, why BSP want to change it?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1073	Fact! Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1074	In that sentence, in that fact, my colleague, there are two false news. The first is that the Commission is appointed. The Commission shall be elected by the National Assembly and by the President, and shall not be appointed by one party.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1075	In the days of Maya Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1076	Second, if it's from BSP... [[GERB lines.]] Has anyone bothered to see what you did in 2014 when this Commission was voted? Do you know who picked her? How did you vote, my dear? Remember? Of course, why should you remember? But I will recall some facts to see who and how appoints the Central Election Commission and who has a majority inside. GERB in the current Commission have 7 people; BSP have 6; DPS.. 3;..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Where did you see the majority of BSP here? Well, if we bring you together now, the government, you have almost an absolute majority. Tell that to Mr. Tsvetanov, the fighter against false news. In fact, why isn't this guy at work today when we're discussing such important things? So tell him that he is the chief author of the most false news in the country when he lies that this Commission was appointed by BSP and is dominated by BSP. We would be happy if we did, because with today's behavior, we would prove to you that our fight is not for our party interest, but for the rule of law. No 6, of those 18 we had 16, we'd still want to follow the law. Your third argument has worked, they are used to each other, and we do not need to risk a team that has not worked and may not be known. By this logic, let's stop choosing a new Supreme Judicial Council, for example, because the old one has worked, or a new Constitutional Court. And why make parliamentary elections, as you very well co-operate with GERB, Patriots that sometimes with DPS. Why do we need parliamentary elections? What kind of logic is that, fellow Members? This is already, with this argument, an invasion of statehood, because you are questioning the mandate as a fundamental principle, enshrined both in the Constitution and in a number of laws of the state. This is the most dangerous violation of the functioning of the institutions and statehood. Of course, from the vote we will see whether our words will be confirmed, and they are that you are breaking the laws, destroying statehood, you do not respect the institutions in the name of one goal - forgery of the elections and the imposition of the dictatorship of the Borisov regime. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1077	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Let me remind you that there is a decision to work until the adoption of a second item on the agenda. You have the floor for lines. I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1078	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the two good holidays have not yet passed, but the parliament has proved that the Bulgarian people are celebrating two beautiful celebrations today and Bulgarian parliamentarians are working in the name of the people and in the middle of the night. [[Voices: "Eee!" by BSP for Bulgaria, applause by GERB and BSP for Bulgaria.]] I don't know where Mrs. Nino has been all day, which of the two celebrations she celebrated. [[Laughter]] I hope she enjoyed it, but I must remind her that Mr. Tsvetanov is at the Munich Security Conference and chief rapporteur there, and it is an honor for Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Parliament. [[(Voices from BSP for Bulgaria: Bravo! Bravo! (Applause from GERB and BSP for Bulgaria.)]] And when we talk about choosing a new composition of the CEC to date, Ms. Ninova, things may sound different, but by 2014, when this composition of the Central Election Commission was elected, BSP, DPS, NDSV had an extraordinary majority in it and you cannot deny that. Several choices have been made in these years: Euro elections in 2014 in this composition of this Central Election Commission. As you probably know, he wins GERB. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following Perhaps, as you know, and then, and as you will learn in the autumn, these elections win them again and will win them GERB. 2016 Presidential Elections - the same Central Election Commission - in the same composition - won by President Radev, supported by the Bulgarian Socialist Party. Here, you see how democracy works in Bulgaria. We chose the president sun, a light for the Kremlin, a light for your souls. Now, that's a fact, and you can't argue with that. Elections 2017. Immediately after these won elections, in this composition of the Central Election Commission 2017, the black mare gives back, lifts the legs, the rider falls off the mare and good that he has a helmet on his head, so there is no damage done. In the spring, the red mare's gonna have the same thing happen to her, and in the fall, you're gonna get on the white mare, and that's the finale. [[Applause from GERB.]] In fact, your request today for a new composition of the Central Election Commission is nothing but another provocation to the democracy of Bulgaria. [[Laughter in GERB's block.]] Nothing but provocation! Because now you want to pass this day, tonight we will vote and if there is a new Central Election Commission, the next day and in the next three months you will talk: here are these governors who have chosen their Central Election Commission to fake the elections, to win them to do manipulations. And we'd like to report to your Election Commission, Mrs. Manolova, in charge when you chose. The fact that you have to settle some internal accounts is your problem, but you cannot settle these accounts at the expense of democracy and prepare this provocation type of Kostinbrod. It is exactly the same as Kostinbrod to make so that we fool the people how bad those from GERB are, so fake that they win these elections as warm bread. [[Noise and lines.]] The law is the law, and that's why the Law will make a decision tonight. The law does not conflict with this committee continuing its work. Since you put a few more questions here today, given your manipulations again. You say the engine vote... 1000 machines, 3000, 6000 machines. Well, dear comrades, you don't need 3000 machines at all, you need a single machine to take it, you need to give it to your vote-buying expert Mr. Manol Genov, to go through the Roma neighborhoods, to see if the Roma can learn to vote on this machine, then ask for more machines, because if they don't learn, nothing will come out of them. [[Private applause, calling. Loud noise from BSP for Bulgaria.]] When today you talk all day about buying elections and the only MP in this parliament is from your party accused of such a thing, a little shame! One asks where are we going to put these 12,000 machines?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1079	Who's asking?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1080	Well, someone in your group is asking. [[Noise and lines.]] Well, we had a place to put them. [[Loud laughter.]] If Mrs Cornelia Ninova, as a former Deputy Minister of Economy, had not sold That's where we were gonna put them. Well, if Comrade Ninova as Deputy Minister of Economy had not sold the Plovdiv Fair with one signature for 1 billion. BGN, in a hall we would have gathered them all these machines and there would have been room for our voters in them. [[(Loud noise, lines. (Laughter)]] They're not anymore. [[(Loud noise. ……]] Technoimpex would finance the security of these machines.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1081	Mr. Gurnevsky, get to the point, please. [[Loud noise, lines and shouts.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1082	We could even protect them with the SRS so they wouldn't disappear, but all the SRS during Mrs. Ninova's time, the state...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1083	Mr. Gurnevsky, close to the subject, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1084	...in her recordings in the intervention of the judiciary over 200 SRS. I'm on the subject. When you go and want to make this provocation against Bulgarian democracy, you should know that GERB are not so stupid and their partners to let you. You will go with your committee to the elections you have chosen, you will eat once again the fight with your Commission, so that there is no one to justify yourself with. [[Private applause from GERB. Revelations: "Bravo! "]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1085	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. I can't figure out who's first. Mr. Milkov, Mr. Bojankov. All right, one at a time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1086	Mr. Hristov, I'm addressing you personally, not in the manner of conduct, I'm addressing... [[Loud noise, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1087	The way you're leading it? I gave the floor for a line, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1088	No, look, I'm doing procedure in the manner of conducting it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1089	I was under the impression it was a line. First, the lines, please. Personal explanation and procedure after given lines and after the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1090	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gurnevsky, one cannot be moved by this poetic pathos. Respect for your fire speech! There's no way! It's just that a person gets excited about these things. But I just have one question. Because as a thin red thread in the speeches of the MPs from GERB today the great threat is being promoted.. provocation to Bulgarian democracy. You have said it several times, Toma Bikov mentioned it, someone else also started telling it as a big threat.BSP makes provocations to Bulgarian democracy because, you see, there is a doubt that the elections will be faked. I want you to explain to me, when today's rapporteur at the Munich Conference Tsvetan Tsvetanov just two days or three days ago in a television station said that the Russians would fake the elections here was not a provocation to Bulgarian democracy, or was it some high Euro-Atlantic value? The real provocation to democracy you have made today in this room you have crippled the preferences, you are trying to destroy democracy, so you are the last person who can talk about democracy. Democracy may exist in some of your poems, but here, you are her killers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1091	Thank you, dear Mr. Simov. You have the floor for a line, dear Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1092	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gurnevski, you, who are the great founder of democracy, please comment on the constitutional decision of 2010, which says that the mandate is a safeguard mechanism of democracy established by the Constitution or by a law for a democratically constituted structure and functioning of state authorities, by granting certain powers for a certain period of time. The fact that the National Assembly does not conduct the selection procedures in time, most likely, dear Mr. Gurnevsky, is because you have not found your comfortable people. Is that why you're doing this? I urge you to obey the law, and if we don't obey it, why don't we?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1093	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Is there a third line? I can't see. Mr. Gurnevsky, come in. You have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1094	Mrs. Klisurska, I'll start with you. Of course democracy will be respected, according to the National Assembly's decision. If someone cancels the decision we're going to make tonight, then democracy is not respected. If you don't cancel it, that means no one cancels it, then democracy is respected. But what greater moral gesture of the ruling majority, which you blaspheme in manipulation by passing through Kostinbrod, all these two years of false news? I once even allowed myself at the beginning of the term, perhaps out of inexperience, to send you somewhere in North Korea, and Mrs. Yoncheva said: "How? I've got a black stamp, I'm not allowed to go to Korea. You're so fake, you're not allowed in North Korea anymore. [[(Laughter) Applause by GERB.)]] Democracy will be respected by a decision of the National Assembly, but there is no greater moral gesture of the ruling majority to allow you once again to go with your Central Election Commission, elected by you, to elections. It would be our pleasure to see you lose them again. [[Applause from GERB.]] Mr. Simov, when we talk about democracy, about what you do and the external interventions about which Mr. Tsvetanov, all of Bulgaria, are aware of what is happening. Let your chairman explain about her meeting with General Rezetnikov, with whom you chose this President, for your directives equal to national betrayal of democracy in Bulgaria. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1095	Thank you, dear Mr. Gurnevsky. Mrs. Ninova, come in for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1096	My fellow Members, I have long since stopped paying attention to the lies you make on my behalf because they are below my level to comment on them. But tonight you cheered me up, Mr. Gurnevsky, you surpassed yourself with the following that Cornelia Ninova as Deputy Minister has sold the Bulgartabac. Do I look anything like Boyko Borisov looking at me? "Bulgartabac" was sold by Boyko Borisov at a price lower than only the machines he had in the enterprise, not to mention all other assets. When that happened, Cornelia Ninova wrote in an envelope in advance the name of the person who would buy it. And he bought it. The result of this criminal sale of Boyko Borisov to Bulgartabac is that the most profitable enterprise in Bulgaria, the largest taxpayer in Bulgaria today is over. Last week, you closed the winning factory in Blagoevgrad and left three thousand people on the street because Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, in a criminal way, sold at a price below the basic value of the most profitable enterprise of Bulgartabac. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You know who, and you know the consequences of this not only for the treasury, not only for the state, but also for the pocket of these two people. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1097	Thank you. Mr. Genov, a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1098	Dear Mr. Gurnevsky, I see you're very concerned about my fate. Keep in mind that all the slanders you have made here, from there, from the towers, from the studios will one day return to your head. I won't comment on what you're saying at my address. It's about the machines. You have warm ties with Metro in Plovdiv. You sold the land to them at a bargain price, you know who. Ask them, they have large warehouses, and put those machines there, and let's hope some Volvo passes by, left there in a garage. [[Radio and lines from "BSP for Bulgaria"]] Let's see if it was old, was it paid for a new... So when you talk about morality, when the München rapporteur comes, ask him how many sentences he's been in this room and how many charges he's charged with. Thank you. [[Noise and lines. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1099	Mr. Milkov, the procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1100	Mr. Chairman, I'll be very brief. Have you heard how we presented the draft decision, what was the point and how this debate began? And I was wondering if when I went out on the stand, I should take off my glasses. Now I'm going to remove them to tell you what you looked like when Mr. Gurnevsky spoke. You looked like this. [[Puts his hands on his eyes]] , so [[Put your hands on your ears]] And so... [[Put your hands on your mouth]] At the same time. You see, that's it. [[Puts his hands on his eyes]] , so [[Put your hands on your ears]] And so... [[Put your hands on your mouth]] ? [[(Radio.) (Laughter)]] I'm not trying to be interesting. I'm just saying to you: being silent, smiling a little bit, all this talkative talker of two years of words, words, words, words spoken by one person at the end of Trifon Zarezan in a loud voice. I don't know why you put up with it. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1101	If you're implying that I looked like a member of the group, I don't think so. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yeah, yeah, I know what you're saying. I don't think there's anyone else in the room, but... Mr. Gurnevsky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1102	In modern Bulgaria there are cases of investigation... [[(Loud noise. Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria]] In the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman. ...and end some with opinions about court [[strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] ..to explain to people and others with a conclusion.................................................................. to explain to people and others with a conclusion.................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1103	Turn to me. You can reprimand me with all your might.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1104	...in which for me it is written that I have made 3 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. economy on this deal of the state. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1105	I couldn't know that, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1106	Yeah. And I forgive him for not knowing. Mrs. Nino's... [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1107	Back to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1108	You should have reminded her...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1109	I couldn't guess.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1110	We're talking to the specific. [[Loud noise and lines. Calls from BSP for Bulgaria.]] ............................................... We're talking to the specific! [[Strong noise, lines and calls from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Next time, remind her! One billion s.A fair, 200 million Plovdiv properties on the deal with the Plovdiv Fair! [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1111	Thank you, dear Mr. Gurnevsky!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1112	And how come all those who bought the Fair are members of the High Council of the Party?...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1113	Dear Mr. Gurnevsky, please pay attention...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1114	How come all oligarchs are derivatives of the communist nomenclature? And you're gonna change the system? [[People's Representative Spas Gurnevski speaks on off microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1115	Mr. Gurnevsky, thank you. In the manner of conduct, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1116	Mr. Chairman, since I did a procedure for the Vogons, which remained misunderstood, somewhat because I didn't explain it well either. I'll try to explain it now. Vogons are known in the galaxy for having the most...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1117	If you're explaining it to me, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1118	To you, Mr. Chairman. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1119	Dear Mr. Bojankov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1120	Vogons are known in the galaxy for having the most boring literature. To kill their victim, they read her to death.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1121	Dear Mr. Bojankov, a procedure is being done in the manner of conduct! I take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1122	Therefore, Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you: when you see the stands...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1123	I take your word for it! Your procedure was not in the manner of conduct. Excuse me, but please stick to the rules. Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1124	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The term of office of the authority which we are discussing ends on 31 March and there is a clear deadline in the Law no earlier than three months should start the procedure, no later than one month before the expiry of this term. Seeing that you did not initiate a procedure, we prepared a draft decision and submitted it. And I never imagined the debate would go this way. Never! You can say it's populism to make a decision. You can say: "We were going to bring it in!."......... but whether the Law should be respected, and it is not right for you to place it in this way. According to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria, there has been a 2010 decision, you are quoting us constantly, I will not read it to you all, but it says that the mandate is a safeguard mechanism of democracy. Those aren't our words. By violating the mandate of the authorities, by putting their human presumptions ahead of whether or not it is appropriate for this body to continue working or not, you put yourself above democracy and these are not big words! So I ask you, despite the late hour, that reason prevail and support our decision. This procedure must begin as soon as possible and end with a new composition of the Central Election Commission. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1125	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Let's move on. A statement by Mr. Honest Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1126	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I almost lost my desire to speak, moreover, that 15 minutes after midnight I am not sure that we have the right to sit because such a stop of the clock has not been voted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1127	We were voted to continue working until the adoption of a second point.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1128	We're in a new 24 hours, that's all I'm reminding you, but, anyway, that's a detail that will be decided, if necessary, by a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1129	That's why I reminded you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1130	Frankly, I didn't expect this to be the debate either. I didn't expect to talk about Vogons, Bulgartabac, world communism, world imperialism. At least when we learned about the BSP colleagues' proposal, we said the same thing to ourselves that this is a procedure, there is some kind of omission and it is normal to support the implementation of the Law. From then on, the crank started to spin, and it turned out that the whole thing was obviously about another P.R. move by the BSP that had to incriminate the evil forces in the government. We were grotesque here without anyone ever asking us how we were going to vote on a common ground. We were going to support you and continue to think, although, frankly, we are asking ourselves whether we are doing the right thing. As they say, the Lex-Lex-Lex-Lex-Lex-Lex-Lex law, but the Law! Perhaps there is no reason in this shortly before elections to change the composition of the Election Commission, but, anyway, so says the Law, so we at IMRO will support this proposal. A lot of lies have been told about the Patriots. It is good to sometimes measure your fairy tales, because the sense of justice must still be present in the debate and not the feeling and desire to slander and defamate our political opponent, so I say with a lot of disdain in myself that we at IMRO will support this Project for a solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1131	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Are there any lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1132	Mr. Vesselinoff, my line is very short. You will not support us because this decision will actually be a decision of parliament and it is not a solution which is somehow driven by desire and is not some request of BSP that has come from nowhere. It comes with clear reasons, which you very well understand, so by voting for.... or against... not only you, but everyone in this House does not vote for.............................. or against BSP. The vote on the elections by the citizens is taken by the BSP. You are currently voting on specific texts, both you and everyone else. And you make a commitment to the texts, not to the BSP.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1133	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1134	Mr. Kutev, if we thought we were voting for or against the BSP, we would probably be voting against the BSP. We know what we're voting for.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1135	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Mr. Kirilov refuses to speak. Dear Mr. Kutev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1136	Colleagues, I will begin my speech by saying that at 00.30 a.m. this conversation should not be held, at least this way. By the way, some of the speeches so far have made it very clear why after 20:00 Parliament is not good to work, especially on Trifon Zarezan. It is not good for parliament and its decisions, and not to mention the image of certain people and parties, but that is not more important, of course. For me, this proposal for a change of the Central Election Commission, as by law, is extremely important. And it is related both to the decision itself and to the previous topic that we talked about in the same way. It is about the extent to which we, as Parliament and legislators, are able to broadcast any trust in the institutions, to what extent the citizens standing outside and looking at us, we can instill them, prove to them that there is some sense and there is some order in the state. This is another case when it comes to introducing a simple order. He's got it, you just gotta keep the law. At the moment, with what we are about to do, by rejecting our proposal, we will actually tell them that the law has no meaning and that the political interests are much stronger than the Law once, and the interests of the citizens, because this legislator in the same National Assembly and in previous meetings has determined the way in which these bodies are changing. And this is not about yours or ours at all! That was our CEC. I don't know exactly how much you shouldn't understand matter. Look, keep in mind that we are in a situation or rather you are in it where you can say anything. I heard outrageous speeches that were not enough for you to enjoy, but you also applauded them. I don't know what else. This all falls on all of us as legislators, specifically on you as a political force. Some of you can say anything right now that somehow his mind can explain what's going on, but the people outside who are sitting there looking at us, they understand. They can see us. They see all the lies that stand before us. They see all the shit we're telling them right now. And they understand it's bullshit. Maybe we politicians think we lied to them at some point, but they end up with a clear sense of what's going on because they're not stupid! And that's why all this is going on and all this resistance against politicians and against the elites. It's the same subject you were talking about earlier. And we continue to behave in the same barbaric way, treading down and going directly through the interests of these people. And that, again, is a common problem. A lot of people watching us don't make a difference right now between a gentleman and another man who's spoken. They're all MPs, and we're all terrifying them with what we're doing right now because we're once again allowing ourselves to break the law. Once again, close party interests begin to become those protected zealously, they begin to become convinced of people who wave their hands and say that this is the only truth. People understand what you're doing. The bad news is they're writing it to all of us, including me. I don't want to be responsible for this. After all, each of us has become an MP and I have said it many times from this tribune, by becoming an MP, I am not comparing myself to all the other MPs, but to those I have remembered before myself! There were decent people in this room before us. These people are our comparison, not all the outrage we're listening to tonight. I know how this vote will end, but I also know how the entire political elite will end up with us at the end, thanks to this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1137	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? Here you are, you have the floor, dear Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, let us return to the topic, namely the Project for a Decision to open a procedure for the selection of a new CEC. Both Mr. Kirilov and the ruling majority remain silent. They tried to talk through Mr. Gurnevsky, but he's talking nonsense! Nothing to do with the Project Decision! His stories have been for two years, but this is all he can and I am already asking myself: Are you not ashamed, colleagues from GERB, when this is your face and this is your speaker on all topics, including 00.30 at night? Don't you feel ashamed that this person is your face on the topic of the election code, on the topic of the Central Election Commission? A draft decision, there's an expired mandate of the Central Election Commission, and now you're all standing around wondering what to do. Well, we have to pick a new one. What's the big deal? We've heard your arguments in the media. You also heard the answer that the Commission had expired and that there could be no new Commission to hold elections. No, you can't! How did she do that? You just don't have an argument. Let someone come out and say the arguments why you do not want to change the Commission. They're very nice, good specialists, you like that you've won five times with this Central Election Commission. Yes, they fulfill their commitments, but the law says that on the fifth year they must be changed, as for each of us on the fourth or when our term expires. Tell me one meaningful argument so we can have a debate. Why are we standing up here all night talking about things that have nothing to do with decision projects? You guys just sit there and shut up. We want to hear something from you why you do not accept, why you do not want, and the debate is over. What will the public know when they wake up in the morning? That the MPs have been talking nonsense all night in parliament. My call, colleagues, is to obey the law as much as we can! That's what I've been doing all day, and I've been asking you to obey the law, and you've been breaking it all day, like you're deliberately breaking it. The only thing I can do, as a representative of the people, to pray to you, is to obey the law! In this case of this law there is no need, if you want any other interests outside the interests of the Bulgarian citizens, to have a legally elected Central Election Commission so that all Bulgarian citizens can then believe in the results chosen precisely by the new Central Election Commission. Because when you have a Central Election Commission that is in question when its legitimacy is in question, there is no way to convince Bulgarian citizens to believe in the results that will be presented. And we don't want to say who wins, who loses the election. If you want to re-select the same Commission. There are experts, specialists. You have the full majority, the full right to choose whomever you want, but keep the law. Tell me why you don't want to obey the law. And indeed, I call on you: give a meaningful answer, so that with this answer we can respond to the people who ask us why in this National Assembly you do not want to obey the laws? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1139	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. A line? I won't. Are there any other statements? I don't see any other speeches. I'm closing the debate. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1140	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. A line? I won't. Are there any other statements? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I will read the Draft Decision for the opening of a public procedure under art. 47, para. 1 of the Election Code, and in the meantime, I will ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs to the House. Project! DECISION opening a public procedure under art. 47, para. 1 of the Election Code The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 46, para. Art. 2, Art. 47, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 51, para. 1 of the Election Code, HAS DECIDED Within two days, the Committee on Legal Affairs of the National Assembly shall approve and submit draft Rules of Procedure for proposals for composition, hearing candidates and election of President, Vice-Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission. I shall put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. Vote 156 MPs: 56 against 83, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1141	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! After all the concern that law and state are failing, I expected you to be at least as few as 46 people as you are here. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I therefore voted against it because I have such a position, but since you dramatize things to the point that statehood is falling apart, you could at least gather all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-14.u1142	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. The next regular plenary session shall be on 15 February 2019 at 9.00, according to the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
