ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[DPS lines.]] Colleagues, before we move on to today's program, we have a decision from the CEC: ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 1682-NS 14 November 2019 on the announcement of Stoyan Radkov Bozhinov as MP in the First Election Region of Blagoevgrad, in the 44th National Assembly In a letter, in a letter. No НС-02-23, dated 13 November 2019 in the CEC was received a decision of the National Assembly of 13 November 2019 with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov as MP from the First Election Region of Blagoevgrad, promoted by Coalition of the United Patriarchs of NFSB, ATAKA and VMRO, in the 44th National Assembly. The Central Election Commission should declare the next MP on the list, given the early termination of Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov's powers. After a check of list A and list B on multi-mandated electoral districts, it was found that the next candidate on the list of Coalition "United patriots" "NFSB," "ATAKA" and "VMRO" is Stoyan Radkov Bozhinov. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, para. 1, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code The Central Election Commission has decided: He declared Stoyan Radkov Bozhinov, EGN..., as the MP in the 44th National Assembly from the list of coalitions. " United patriots............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Please, the Quaestors, invite the People's Representative. Colleagues, let's stand up and take an oath, Mr. Bojinov. [[Everyone gets up.]] Mr. Bojinov, come to the stand and repeat after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u2	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u3	Congratulations! [[Applause.]] We continue with messages: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 88, para. 6 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly we withdraw the submitted Draft Decision on a change in the composition of the management of the Committee on Culture and Media. No 954 02 96, of 26 September 2019 The National Statistical Institute has received information about: Indexes of turnover in the section "Retail trade without trade in cars and motorcycles" in September 2019; Indexes of industrial production in September 2019; Indexes of the construction industry in September 2019; Consumer Observation, October 2019; Employed persons and average gross salary in the third quarter of 2019; Inflation and indexes of consumer prices in October 2019; Gross domestic product in the third quarter of 2019, express assessments; Main results of the monitoring of the workforce in the third quarter of 2019. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We continue with the first point for today: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE WORK OF COLLECTIVE INVESTIVES AND OTHER COLLECTIVE INVESTATIONS. The Economic Policy and Tourism Committee report will introduce us to Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u4	Colleagues, we will start with hall clearance on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of our Rules of Procedure, I propose that they be admitted to the Chamber: From the Ministry of Finance.. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance; Elena Petrova. State expert in the Directorate of Financial Markets Regulation, Elka Shongova General Expert. By the Financial Supervision Commission, Maria Filipova, Vice-President of the Commission; and Desislava Laskova, Head of Department of Investment Mediators.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u5	Access mode, please. Vote 168 MPs: for 167, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u6	♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings, No 902-01-54, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 October 2019. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting on 6 November 2019 examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Finance Nadya Daskalova, state expert at the Directorate of Financial Markets Regulation and Elka Shongova, Chief Expert at the Directorate of the Financial Markets Regulation and by the Financial Supervision Commission of Maria Filipova, Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors, Head of Investment, Desislava Laskova, Head of the Department of Investment and Markets of Financial Instruments, Teodora Dobreva, Head of the Joint Investment Enterprises, Milen Milev, Head of the Department of Normative Activities and Scholarship; by the Bulgarian Association of Forced Companies - Petko Krastev, Chairman of the Management Board, and Evgenius Zishev, Chief Secretary-General. The bill was presented by Maria Filipova. According to the importer, the proposed bill aims to introduce measures in national legislation to ensure conditions for the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2017/1131 of the European Parliament to improve regulatory regulation and a higher level of investor protection and to limit short-term funding market problems. A requirement is introduced for stress tests by money market funds, so-called MMFs. It is required that the documents necessary for the organisation and management of MMFs comply with the requirements of Regulation (EU) 2017/1131 and that management companies apply the requirements of Regulation (EU) 2017/1131. Other changes beyond the requirements of the said Regulation require that the prospectus of a collective investment scheme which has different classes of units contain a description of the characteristics specific to each class with a clear indication of the differences between the different classes. It limits the possibility for a management company acting at the expense of all collective investment schemes or other collective investment undertakings it manages to acquire voting shares that would allow it to exert a significant influence on the management of an issuer or a public company. The bill proposes the introduction of a definition of..... influence....................................................................................... The provisions relating to the capital adequacy and liquidity of management companies shall also be revised by introducing a differentiated approach to the actions and measures to be taken in the event of a breach of regulatory requirements. The provision and application of adequate and effective internal channels and procedures for the submission of alerts by the employees of the investment company and the depositary shall be regulated for actual or potential infringements of that law and its implementing acts. The management and representation requirements of a management company shall be uniform to those of investment firms in so far as there is no basis for less favourable treatment of collective investment managers. It is explicitly regulated that a management company is managed and represents at least two persons, which, in application of the requirements of the Commercial Act, will result in a need for a change in the composition of a part of the management bodies of the management companies or the election of a prosecutor. Amendments and additions to the current regulatory framework shall also be proposed in relation to the application to undertakings for collective investment of Directive (EU) 2015/849 to prevent the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing. The Bill also provides for changes in the tariff in relation to the specification and differentiation of fees for general financial supervision due by alternative investment fund managers. In order to bind the fees due to the activity carried out and the services provided to the Bill, it is envisaged that the fee be differentiated for carrying out general financial supervision for those managing alternative investment funds. A differentiated approach in determining the amount of fees for carrying out general financial supervision is applied in the current tariff and in respect of management companies and investment firms. Amendments to the administrative criminal provisions have also been introduced and the texts regulating the disclosure of the penalties imposed and the enforcement measures implemented to achieve full compliance with Directive 2009/65/EC have also been refined. Transitional periods are provided for alternative investment fund managers, management companies, investment companies and depositary entities to bring their activities into line with the new requirements. The implementation of the proposed changes is not related to additional costs/transfers/other payments. A partial preliminary impact assessment as well as those required under art. 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Petko Krastev from the Bulgarian Association of Managing Companies expressed two main groups of considerations: the first is related to the treatment of the cash accounts and the second is that the bill contains heavier restrictions than the requirements of the regulation. After the end of the discussion and voting with results: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings, No 902-01-54, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 October 2019. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. You also have fans. We continue with the debates and give the floor for speeches. Here you go, guys. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u8	Dear colleagues, in order not to take the floor further, this is a pure European integration law. We are obliged to adopt these requirements of the European Directive, very specific is the law. I would just like to share that at the meeting of our committee, some proposals were submitted by the Bulgarian Association of Management Companies. With the portfolio managers of the Financial Supervision Commission, we agreed that they would sit down, in advance in order to resolve these differences, so that we could bring in a good, synchronized law at second reading. I propose, first of all, that we vote on it, and I propose that between first and second readings we have two weeks of quiet work to balance everyone's interests in this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u9	Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings, No 902-01-54, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 October 2019. Vote 154 MPs: for 152, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Procedure, Mr. Kanev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u10	Colleagues, I propose an extension of the deadline for proposals between first and second readings of two weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u11	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. I put to the vote Mr. Kanev's procedure for extending the period between first and second readings to two weeks. Vote 150 MPs: 150, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. That's what we've run out of the program for this week. At 11:00 we continue with parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u12	Dear Members of the Parliament, Let's start with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. There are no new requests for the period from 8 November to 14 November 2019. Written answers from: - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov to a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Anna Slavova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Hristo Prodanov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a request from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Boris Yachev. We begin parliamentary control with a response from Mrs. Mariana Nikolova, Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy. She will answer a question from Georgi Gokov about measures that the government will take to prevent, combat and limit undeclared work. Dear Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers and Members of the National Assembly! Undeclared work can be defined as a legal activity against payment which has not been declared to the public authorities. Undeclared employment is one of the topics that has been on Europe's attention for a long time because the negative consequences of undeclared work affect workers, trade unions, businesses, employers and governments. For Bulgaria according to the data of employers' organizations, trade unions and the National Revenue Agency, every year the state budget does not include about 400 million. lv. from hidden income. Without claiming any accuracy, I claim that nearly two thirds of the Bulgarians are of the opinion that the grey economy is the fastest way to make more money. At least two thirds do not recognise that this is a conscious and well disguised crime, that in this way legal and social norms are being violated, put in an uneven position and employers, and workers, and that future poor are being generated to weigh on the social system with lower pension rights, with more limited access to health care, with poor working conditions, with potential violation of labour rights. For business, undeclared work generates unfair competition because enterprises that do not declare their workers receive unfair benefits. For the State, undeclared work means a loss for fiscal, tax and social security revenues. Business and trade unions, each according to their abilities and interests, work towards reducing undeclared work and measures to limit and prevent this phenomenon. But the government as a whole has to be responsible for fighting undeclared work and not leave it in the hands of business or the trade unions this battle, even so I would say. This phenomenon raises a number of questions, but in this case the question is: what are short-term and long-term measures, including initiatives for legal changes that the state in the face of the government will take to prevent, combat and limit undeclared work in all its forms? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u14	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, on the occasion of your question I provide the following information: Undeclared labour is a challenge that affects the interests of all participants in the labour market. All its manifestations damage workers as they cannot fully benefit from the safeguard mechanisms of labour and social security legislation. It has a negative impact on the country's tax and insurance systems due to reduced income from taxes and social security contributions, which is a serious public problem. Undoubtedly, this work also leads to a reduction in the quality of jobs. On the other hand, the fact that undeclared work also has the effect of unfair competition between undertakings which, at the expense of the damage to the budget and workers, manage to obtain a market advantage should not be overlooked. Studies show different data on the level of undeclared work in Bulgaria. It should be stressed that in all studies there is a tendency to reduce the relative share of undeclared work and the grey economy in the Republic of Bulgaria. Data from the International Labour Organisation, which report a reduction in the amount of undeclared work in the country, can be noted. Informal employment in Bulgaria is 15.9%, at average level for the European Union 16.3%. The reported reduction in undeclared employment over the years is due to numerous factors, one of the key factors is the implementation of legislative changes in labour and insurance legislation. They helped to limit informal employment and created conditions for the prevention and control of illegal practices such as: work without a contract, work of minors without permission from the Master Labour Inspectorate, payment of wages other than those recorded in the employment contract, illegal overtime. An example of this is the targeted action taken in relation to undeclared work in the agricultural sector by introducing the so-called day-to-day contracts in art. 114a of the Labor Code. They increase the share of declared employment when performing short-term seasonal agricultural work. The aim is to encourage persons to engage in legally regulated work while also ensuring social protection for those persons, as all taxes and social security contributions must be paid in advance. In addition to legislative initiatives, it is also important to tackle the problems that give rise to undeclared work, and also to the partnership between all institutions, the Labour Inspection, the National Revenue Agency and the National Insurance Institute, and good interaction with social partners. Apart from the national level, concrete action shall be taken to address undeclared work with a cross-border element which is a relatively new phenomenon caused by the possibility of free movement of persons and the provision of services within the European Union. As an example of good practice to combat illegal employment, the agreements concluded with Germany, France, the Netherlands and Great Britain, which govern the main forms of cooperation between the competent services responsible for combating cross-border abuse in compensation and social security contributions from employment and unregistered employment, as well as illegal cross-border employment, may be referred to. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Annual Activity Plan of the Master Labour Inspectorate is always planning measures aimed at combating undeclared work, as a key indicator of implementation is determining a number of checks that should be aimed at addressing this problem. Information campaigns aimed at combating undeclared work are also planned. The participation of the Executive Agency is currently being prepared in the European declared work campaign to be held in the spring of 2020. The aim of the common European campaign is to demonstrate the benefits of the declared work for all participants in the labour market, as well as to get acquainted with their fundamental rights. It should be noted that it is of particular importance to reduce the level of public tolerance towards the grey economy, as well as to strengthen confidence in public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u16	Thank you. Mr. Gokov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u17	Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers and Members of Parliament! Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, from your answer I understand, I see that you understand the problem, that is, the government understands the problem, that remains to be misunderstood because it is a serious problem. It is not only in Bulgaria but is a problem throughout Europe, but it seems that Bulgaria is in a much more serious size than in the rest of the European Union. I will start by trying to give some definition of undeclared work, even when I formulated my question. I described it as activity against payment, which has not been declared to the public authorities. However, I would say that in Bulgaria there is no precise and official definition of what an undeclared employment means. And in my opinion, we haven't even identified the problem of undeclared employment as a whole. If we have not done so, we cannot search for or find a tool for its measurement and develop measures to limit it. The problem is serious because assessments of different experts, because we have no uniform idea of undeclared work, claim that budget losses, for a fissure, are from 400 million, and some come to a billion or two billion per year loss. And the problem is serious, because I appreciate practicing undeclared work and others from the grey sector as an extremely serious problem that damages the insurance and tax system, and hence the whole society, harming workers, employers. Because the assessments of this work also, as we are not aware of its precise definition, vary that it covers from 16%, according to the government, to 40 and 60%, according to other experts and participants in the budget processes. Thank you for your answer, but I'm not happy with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u18	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mrs. Nikolova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, I would like to make it clear that in terms of employment relations in the Republic of Bulgaria there is an extremely strict regulation. Under the Labour Code, employment relations are regulated only as employment relationships. The employment contract shall be concluded in writing and within three days of the conclusion of the contract, the employer shall be obliged to register it with the NRA and then its obligation to notify the Agency of any modification of the complexity or duration of the contract and of its termination. The legal regime for registration of employment contracts was introduced in 2003. Compulsory registration of employment contracts is one of the actions to limit undeclared employment. This measure creates clarity, security and accuracy of the number of employees employed on a territorial and national scale. Employers shall bear administrative criminal responsibility if they allow a worker or employee to work without having received a copy of the contract of employment and a copy of the notification certified by the NRA. In the event of a repeated infringement, the control authorities shall be entitled, including to suspend the activity of the work site or the establishment until the infringement has been resolved. One of the serious consequences of undeclared employment is the evasion of social security contributions. Employers shall also bear criminal liability in respect of the non-payment of social and health insurance contributions. To this end, changes were also made to the Criminal Code in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u20	Thank you. Allow me to thank Mrs. Mariana Nikolova, Deputy Prime Minister for economic and demographic policy, for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We address the questions to Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, and before that there will be Mrs. Cornelia Ninova for a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, colleagues! Yesterday, the Coalition Council of those in charge of the government of GERB and the United Patriarchs have decided not to pay the first day of the hospital. First of all, this decision was taken outside the official place, the institutional place and this is the Trilateral Council. But it is not so important that this can be corrected, arguments and the outcome are important. The argument is that there is an increase in fake hospital, an increase in expenditure from the state budget for their payment. With this decision, honourable rulers, Mr. Goranov, the health minister is also here, you recognize the government's powerlessness to deal with the abuse of hospital lists. Instead of controlling and punishing those who issue or use fake hospital sheets, you punish decent workers and deprive them of the right to receive benefits. Those who work, bring their contributions disciplined into the state budget and, in the case of a disease, they are entitled to receive compensation from their own money, they will not receive it. They will be punished! You work, you pay, and when you get sick, you can't get the compensation from what you paid yourself. This is the most unfair decision you've ever made. We strongly oppose this decision by the BSP for Bulgaria. I remind you of your eternal excuses that this or that is written in the government program. In your program, there is no such solution. I address both the Patriots and GERB, but there are solutions for a minimum pension of 300 BGN. What's written down, you don't do what's not there, you're hurting the workers, and you're hurting the right workers. That is why, apart from strongly opposed to voting, if this enters the Chamber between first and second readings, I call on all those working not to accept in silence that they are deprived of another right, not to accept this action by the Coalition Council of the Government and the Government in particular, having our parliamentary and political support to protect their fundamental rights. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u22	We're continuing with parliamentary control. Question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov concerning a dangerous section of Republican road I-5 between Stara Zagora and Kazanlak with frequent traffic accidents with fatal outcome. Please, Mr. Gokov, ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, honourable Members of the House! The Stara Zagora road is part of the Republican road network and the recent incidents, with a fatal end, are becoming more frequent in this area. The last tragic incident occurred shortly after the misty village of Tulovo, when a rider died on the road in an attempt to avoid an animal. Within a year, this is the third such incident. Local people protest and want to take measures from the responsible institutions to avoid future such incidents along this path. The local people protest really rightly, and the municipality of Muglige insists on putting boards in the most dangerous area near the village of Tulovo, as this is another incident due to animals, cattle, coming out of the canvas. According to informal information, the Road Infrastructure Agency is refusing to do so, pointing out regulations that say that the costs for this should be borne by the municipal administration. The municipal administration, for its part, says it is difficult to do this. In our country, someone had considered that more than 10 institutions were responsible for the safety of the movement and one of them was the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and, in particular, the Road Infrastructure Agency. In this regard, Minister, I ask you to answer the question: what are the intentions of the Ministry in charge of which you are responsible and, in particular, of the Road Infrastructure Agency on the provision of safe conditions for movement in the quoted section? When I ask the question to you, I am absolutely clear that the problem of road safety in our country is the responsibility of many ministries, many structures at the same time, but as part of road safety and you are responsible for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u24	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Minister Avramova, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Gokov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In relation to the question you have asked, we also referred to the Ministry of Interior as a competent authority with full data, both for road accidents on the territory of the country and for the specific motorcycle accident, which occurred on 22 September 2019 in a section of Republican road I 5 Kazanlak "Stara Zagora" at km 206. The problem of road safety, as you have just mentioned, is complex and reducing the number of serious road accidents, especially those with a fatal end, is an interinstitutional priority. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works shall have an active dialogue with other road safety assessment actors in order to make tangible progress in the efforts of all institutions and civil society to travel without accidents. According to data from the Ministry of Interior in the period 2015 - 2018 the section at km 206 on Republican road I 5 was not established as a section with the concentration of road accidents. For this year, in the segment from km 202 to km 209, there have been three accidents involving domestic animals, and there have been killed at km 202+300, km 209 and km 206. In km 202, it occurred as a result of the motion of the road lane of an unsigned cart, and at km 206 and km 209 due to the exit of domestic animals on the road. As I mentioned above, the problem is complex and should be analysed by all possible aspects. The site of the incident is four kilometers outside the regulatory boundaries of the village of Tulovo, the municipality of Muglige, and the accident was caused by a sudden domestic animal on the road. The inspection carried out by regional road control specialists at the station found that the road and the current signal were in normal condition, and last month the horizontal road marking along the whole section was refreshed. The section is located on plain terrain, straight, with good visibility, the operating condition is good. For the section at km 206, where the incident occurred, a restrictive system under the Law is not required. Such systems shall be designed in accordance with the technical rules for the application of restricted road systems on the Republican Road Network and such systems shall be used for securing dangerous places classified in several groups. [[The President gives a sign that the time has expired.]] Mrs. Chairman, I will finish my sentence and fill in the back. Such places are: mounds with mounds and heights, violent rivers, streams, gas stations, pedestrians and bikes bordering railways, so that according to the Law such a system is not required there.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u26	Thank you, Minister Avramova. Mr. Gokov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u27	Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, honourable Members of the House! Madam Minister, I will begin with an introduction to what you said that safety on the roads of Bulgaria is one of the biggest fears of the Bulgarians. When someone travels to Bulgaria more than 20 km away, his relatives say: "When you arrive, call it scary. Much of these fears of people are due to the fact that the Ministry of Interior and the DMV cannot deal with violations of the Road Traffic Act by drivers and drivers, but we cannot transfer all responsibility only to drivers and that they violate the rules. One small part of the tragic incidents is due to the state of the roads, the horizontal marking, the inadequate road signs, the infrastructure at all. The section we are talking about, Kazanlak "Stara Zagora" is a link between two large municipalities and communication is very serious on this road with intensive movement. It is not normal, but it is part of the statistics, if I may say so, that there are many accidents there, including unregistered ones, especially this section around Tulovo and with these outings of domestic and wild animals. As I've traveled this way, I've personally seen such animals pass through the canvas and it's dangerous. You say in your reply that everything is fine in terms of the requirements of the legislative and in general the regulations on infrastructure on this road, but the accidents continue and perhaps we should do something outside the regulatory requirements so that we can stop them. I am asking you: let the specialists and experts in the Agency of Road Infrastructure look at the problem and offer solutions if they are to be outside the legal framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u28	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Minister Avramova, come in for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Gokov, I will only add a few things to my answer. First, that the functions of road restraint systems are not to protect against domestic animals, but to be able to return the road vehicle to an accident within the road lane. The section cited shall not fall within any of the hazard groups according to the technical rules. In addition, I would like to add that, under the Road Traffic Act, drivers of animal-powered vehicles or herds must be constantly guided so that they do not create obstacles and hazards to traffic, do not remain unsupervised on the road. The Road Infrastructure Agency does not, in fact, have control functions regarding the implementation of the Road Traffic Act, nor does it have powers to sanction lawbreakers. As of September 29th, we have a signal from the Ministry of Interior informing us of this precinct. Although we are really breaking the technical rules, we have actually designed a project to install a containment system with a length of 318 m from km 209+392 to km 209+710 worth 28 thousand. lv. This system is actually placed outside the area where the motorbike accident occurred, but is in the area of the village of Tulovo, where the problem is the non-residential movement of animals and wagons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u30	Allow me to thank Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the questions to Mr. Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance. He will respond to a question by MP Dora Yankova about the government's policy of allocating funds from the central budget to municipalities. Here you are, dear Mrs. Yankova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u31	Dear Madam President, Dear Mr. Goranov, Dear Ministers! My question is about the government's policy of allocating funds from the central budget to municipalities. I am looking for its dimension in the Management Programme of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 - 2021, which is public, where in Objective 59 the government has placed its desire to decentralise public services and improve their quality to improve the management of municipal level and, respectively, Measure 228 stated that the mechanisms for the allocation of funds from the central budget to municipalities will be improved. And as the elections passed, the debate of the Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria reported the results of the previous term, the Bulgarian citizens were active in the electoral process, the new mayors were in fact, with great power the issue of the implementation of this part of the Programme of the Government. My concern arises from something else, Mr. Goranov, because here you have focused on the fact that public services must be improved, my concern is that taking into account the demographic crisis and the problems that there are in the country, they are becoming more expensive and are missing in places. I will give very small examples of almost all parts of the country. Members of parliament know, and you, of course, it is normal, live in the country and feel it lacks distance transport, more expensive are services when you have to go to a doctor, to a pharmacy, to a community center, public services, street lighting. Social services are also of great importance, which must be presented, and ultimately at this stage they are only from European funds, and they need to go more and more to the new social services law. My concern is: are Bulgarian citizens on the Constitution equal to receive quality public services? What prevents this, and is there any opportunities through the Programme, through what you have set yourself as a goal for decentralisation of these services and for better quality, for any change to occur, and what might it be? That's why I'm asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Dear Minister Goranov, come in, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u33	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Yankova, Minister! When we worked a year ago on drawing up the state budget for 2019, one of our priorities was to create a fairer model for determining the size of the budgetary relationship of the central budget with the budgets of municipalities. The focus was on changing the allocation mechanism of the total matching subsidy, which is designed to ensure a minimum level of local services, according to the provision of art. 54 of the Public Finance Act. A review of the mechanisms applied in the previous years was carried out during the discussion of the possible options. The analysis showed that in the years following 2007 the objective of the countervailing mechanism was significantly distorted by granting access to the subsidy for all municipalities, without regard to their fiscal capabilities and prioritising the allocation component based on natural indicators to reduce the countervailing component. Such an approach leads to the involvement of a significant resource of large and, by our estimation, rich municipalities, respectively, leads to the deepening of disproportions between them and municipalities with lower fiscal opportunities. A change in the allocation mechanism was approved by the general purpose of the common matching subsidy to provide a comparable level of fiscal opportunities for the provision of the necessary local services in municipalities and, on the basis of the conclusions reached by the 2019 budget, was approved. The modified model takes into account the ability of a municipality to generate permanent tax revenue, with the totals having a stronger fiscal capacity limited access to a matching subsidy. In order to reduce the differences, the municipalities which realised more than 120% of the national average of permanent tax revenues per resident in the previous year did not receive a matching subsidy. Municipalities which have implemented permanent tax receipts below this level shall be entitled to access a matching subsidy in order to ensure a comparable level of fiscal opportunities for the provision of local services. The mechanism for the allocation of the total matching subsidy in 2019 for the municipalities with access includes five components, with the largest share having the component that ensures the levelling of the difference between 120% of the country's level and the permanent tax revenues of one resident for the particular municipality. The other components of the total matching subsidy include: allocation on the basis of the cost-needs shares of municipalities with access evaluated through natural indicators; component for municipalities whose share of revenue compared to municipalities is less than 25 per cent; component to cover negative differences compared to the amount of subsidy determined by the State Budget Act for the previous 2018 and an additional component to be allocated to municipalities having an average tax effort above the national average. According to this mechanism in this year, 19 municipalities are not eligible for access to a matching subsidy. The greater fiscal potential of these municipalities is significantly subject to various economic factors, such as the presence of large enterprises, warehouses and production bases, logistics or shopping centres, sea or mountain resorts in their territory, which give them an advantage in the ability to generate permanent tax revenues. These revenues include not only the local taxes collected by natural persons but also the local taxes paid by enterprises, which compared with the number of residents to which the municipality provides local services, imply a significant excess of the average level for all municipalities. The granting of additional funds to municipalities with high fiscal potential would deepen the disproportions between them and the other municipalities and would be contrary to the purpose of the matching subsidy, therefore the condition of access to the subsidy should continue in the years to come. The draft law on the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for the following year as a whole retains the mechanism for the allocation of the total matching subsidy. There is only a change in relation to an increase in the allocation amount of the additional tax component in order to encourage municipalities to use the powers conferred on them by the Law on Local Taxes and Fees in terms of rates, and in the 2020 mechanism the tax effort is compared with the average amount of the corresponding rate within the limits set by the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. The Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 also changed the mechanism for the allocation of the target subsidy for capital expenditure. As of 2018, components, natural indicators by municipalities for the number of settlements, with the exception of places without population and with population up to 10 people, length of municipal network, population and territory, were included additional resources to support municipalities of the fourth and fifth category to improve the state of social and technical infrastructure in the territory of these settlements. The category of municipalities is determined by an order established by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works for categorization of municipalities in the country. The municipalities covered in 2019 by the additional component for the fourth and fifth categories are 131, each receiving 25 thousand each. lv. The 2020 budget provides for more significant changes in the mechanisms for the allocation of the target subsidy for capital expenditure and the transfer for winter maintenance and snow-cleaning of municipal roads in order to achieve objective compliance between funds and natural indicators for each particular municipality. The component that ensures the amount of the target subsidy for capital expenditure and the transfer for winter maintenance and snow cleaning in the previous year has been removed. Therefore, the distribution by municipalities for both transfers was made only on the basis of natural indicators. The additional component for the allocation of the target subsidy for capital expenditure to support municipalities of category 4 and 5 to improve the state of social and technical infrastructure in the territory of municipalities shall be retained, with an increase of 50 thousand. lv. for each municipality. To conclude, I would like to assure you that by what has been said so far, the process of searching for objective criteria to serve as a basis for the distribution of transfers for local activities, but we aim to continue the convergence of opportunities to provide the necessary local services in each municipality and to provide better conditions for living in every populated area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u34	Thank you, Minister Goranov. Mrs. Yankova, by procedure you have the opportunity to ask two supplementary questions. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u35	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister Goranov, Dear Minister of Health, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! So far, what you have shared is clear to all MPs and the municipalities, because in the first reading procedure of the Bill it has been clarified. And, of course, with the small steps of a conservative position towards the status quo of the current budget formula, so be it. Yes, there is progress in certain services, but because, Mr. Goranov, you are struggling to be a finance minister, a reformer, I would like to ask you another question. My first supplementary question relates to bolder fiscal decentralisation. The Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria for years, at least eight years, and earlier the former mayor of Sofia now Prime Minister, then at least insisted for bolder financial decentralisation. The general opinion of both municipalities and experts and the Institute for Market Economics and other experts around local and public finances is now being formed to separate two percentage points of income tax for municipalities, which will be around 700 million. lv. I'd like to hear your reasoning and your philosophy. Naturally, it is not a burden on anyone, but an allocation between the state "eight percentage points" for the state, two percentage points for the municipalities. The second question, which is screaming, I shared that there are great contrasts in the country and it is natural, as municipalities provide two-thirds of the services, one part of purely municipal services, other shared, state and municipal services, what is your view in the Ministry of Finance to form a communist fund in the future? Why? Because, since there is an auction and there is no network and there is no candidate to run the transport network, it is not right for these people to rent a car to travel, to be more expensive for them to go to a doctor and pharmacist, and the municipality can, by creating a community enterprise that covers the mix of services, create such social and community service for the citizens, but it will require resources for that. These two questions, I think, are extremely important. [[the President signals that time has run out]] If there is to be a bolder financial decentralisation for the municipalities, I am interested in your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Mr. Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u37	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Yankova! The questions you have raised have really been on the agenda for a long time. Conceptually speaking, if we make such a transfer, it will probably provide a significant additional resource in order to local authorities. However, we start from the conceptual approach why there is a division of types of taxes and why income taxes and consumption taxes are set to finance the central government, and why local taxes in all their forms are defined as the powers of local authorities and are included in the local budget. In my opinion, if we proceed to this measure, there will be at least two defects if we quickly and immediately proceed to a measure to set aside two percentage points, from the income tax to the specific municipalities. It is easy to imagine because there is no need for a very serious analysis to conclude that then the richer municipalities will become even richer and the poorer municipalities will become even poorer. Why would the poorer municipalities become even poorer? Because it is inevitable that the seizure by the government of a significant resource and its transfer to the local authorities will greatly limit the possibilities for holding, the modern word is a policy by the government, with regard to individual areas. The reduction with such a significant resource of revenue on the central budget cannot go through a commentary: these functions and activities with which the government now finances with these proceeds, whether they should switch to municipalities, and whether municipalities should assume additional similar functions in view of the significant resource that will enter into them, but I think there is no single answer and easy balance in this regard. It is no coincidence that over the years we have proposed to think of an opportunity, at the discretion of the municipalities, of course, without it being a decision of the central government, to also allow municipalities to determine income tax depending on the desire, opportunities and potential. You remember that there was a debate years ago, even part of one of the management programs of the Political Party GERB, to enable the local authorities to determine such income tax on the territory of the respective municipality in size, for example, then proposed 0.2 percentage points, i.e. to allow local parliaments to conduct economic policy through similar decisions. At the time, the reaction of the local authorities was extremely negative, which was a little strange, because obviously we are seeing it more and more and more and more relevant over the years. The local authorities, being close to the people, do not want to take responsibility for decisions that could somehow turn society or residents of the municipality against the municipal mayor. Their aim and appeal have always been: all problems that arise to be solved at central level. Decentralisation can't just be about rights. It must also inevitably increase the responsibility of the local authorities concerned. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The generalising conclusion is that, unfortunately, with the demographic processes going on and reducing population density sooner or later, we will come to a debate on the structure of the territorial structure, sooner or later we will come to the conclusion that where few people live, the infrastructure will be worse and they will manage harder. Here is the role of the government to increase the countervailing component and to focus more precisely on this equalisation component by reducing the aid to those municipalities that can objectively cope and increasing the aid to those who are more difficult to handle themselves. The subject of utilities is a good topic. She's standing now as an opportunity for the local authorities. The Law gives the municipal councils the opportunity to create them, so that we could assist methodologically or in another form the National Association of Municipalities or a specific municipality, as long as it has a desire in such a direction. There are many such examples already.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u38	Thank you, Minister Goranov. For your treatment Mrs. Yankova, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u39	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister Goranov, Dear Minister of Health, Members of the National Assembly! I partly agree with what you said because you only looked at it from your convenient point of view, Mr. Minister. When these funds can be given 2 points of income tax, they will stimulate municipalities to see economic development, wages, gray economy and parallel where distortion occurs, I know that you can compensate them where more public resources are strengthened, the remaining resources, which is on the principle of solidarity, to compensate small municipalities. So if you wish, I would like to ask you to enter this debate, to hear these 265 municipalities, Bulgarian citizens, even business, that we need to look for another way for bolder financial and fiscal decentralisation. Because only in Europe do we stand on property tax and a little bit of tax tourism, which is related to tourist services. In Europe, income tax and corporate tax are shared between the state and municipalities and this is not new. You know well the financial instruments of European policy. The problems concerning public services and their quality that go through the budget are screaming, and there is no way with the matching subsidy that is small to compensate for all of this. Regarding the tax to be increased by two points, I remember that the municipalities were angry then, but the most angry was the Prime Minister and banned Minister Tomislav Donchev from supporting him. He was at a forum of municipalities, there were some elections ahead, and you pulled the political position. Now the elections have passed, it is right for you, as Minister of Finance, to want municipalities to burden citizens more, but the principle is: tolerance, solidarity and justice in respect of taxes themselves. So stimulate and go deeper into fiscal and financial decentralisation and. Believe me... will be for the good of the country and the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Allow me to thank Mr. Vladislav Goranov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the questions to Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health. He will answer, first, a question from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov about lung transplantation in the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you are, Professor Mikhailov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister Ananiev, a few days ago, information leaked in the media, which is exactly what I call this information about carrying out a lung transplant at Lozenets Hospital. During this year, we met with you several times in the Parliament Hall and the Parliament even tasked you with serious changes in the field of transplantation activity in Bulgaria in all directions of organ and cell transplantation. Unfortunately, after this information, there was no comment from the Ministry. A few days later, in an interview on other issues, you said that the patient was going in a constructive direction after the transplant. My question to you after your explanation in the Chamber that training teams are being prepared and that the first transplant will be carried out in your words at the end of 2020 - 2021: what are you going to do if such opportunities really exist in the Republic of Bulgaria, regardless of whether with or without international participation? Since the problem is extremely important, I will further develop it in my regard a little later. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u42	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Dear Minister Ananiev, please come in for an answer. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u43	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihaylov, at the beginning of 2019 Bulgaria renewed its cooperation with the chest surgery department at the Multiprofile Hospital of Vienna. As a result of the agreements reached with the Austrian hospital are planned trainings on lung transplantation of Bulgarian specialists from the University Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. A detailed schedule for the implementation of the training program is also accepted. The teams of medical professionals prepared under this training programme are scheduled to begin work on transplants and post-transplantational monitoring of patients after the completion of the training, i.e. at the end of 2020 or early 2021. Medical specialists from the University Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment will be included in the training. University Hospital Lozenets is authorised to perform a lung transplant. Every hospital in the country has the right to take action to improve the qualification of healthcare professionals, including in the field of transplants, in cooperation with Bulgarian and foreign universities and clinics. The realization of such projects is not contrary to the policy of the competent Bulgarian institutions, especially taking into account the need to start lung transplants in Bulgaria as early as possible. In this connection the specialists of the University Hospital Lozenets, together with their partners at the University Hospital in the town of Lozenets. Hanover, they performed the first lung transplant in the country after a long period of interruption of this activity in the country. During the entire process, the Ministry of Health and its management were constantly informed of what was happening. The staff of the Executive Agency of Medical supervision shall coordinate the actions of the donor situation, the transportation of the donor from Varna to Sofia and all actions prior to the transplantation. After the operation was completed, information was given to the media, first from the transplant center, as is the normal order, and then from the Ministry of Health. According to data from the University Hospital, the currently transplanted patient is feeling well and a rehabilitation program is being conducted. This is all good news for Bulgarian healthcare. To make sure personally, Professor Mihailov, this Tuesday "November 12th," I personally visited the patient at the University Hospital "Lozenets" to get acquainted with his condition. The man greeted us, moved alone, without oxygen, in a visible good mood. In fact, he bought us a cup of coffee, along with the two representatives from the patient organizations. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I assure you in conclusion that the Ministry of Health and the Executive Agency of Medical supervision continue their work aimed at training Bulgarian specialists, building bilateral relations with countries with developed transplant programs and implementing national measures for the construction of a modern donation and transplantation system that will provide every needy Bulgarian citizen with equal and adequate opportunities for transplantation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u44	Thank you, Minister Ananiev. Professor Mihaylov, here's an opportunity for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, what you're saying, I'm sure it's true. However, the problem is extremely serious, and I am asking you, as a principal, to address it, because it is a question which concerns a small list of waiting Bulgarian citizens for transplants, which will be placed in a very risky situation if this undertaking, which is currently taking place at Lozenetz Hospital, is not supported so that it can become a routine intervention for the next 12 months, and it can cover most of the waiting list for lung transplantation. I do not want to go into specific details that are not needed either by the House or by you, but I would like to encourage you, in parallel with the so-called training of teams that will go to train at the end of 2020, in order to be ready in the country to carry out, given that there is already such readiness here, to focus on this problem, the support of the "Lozenetz" base for carrying out lung transplants, as I would like to share with you that the problem of organ transplants, which you have shared before us before a discussion in this House, is extremely serious in terms of the donor situation in the world. And we will not be able to deal with this problem on the list, which I was quoting, if at the moment, indeed at the moment, within the next 12 months we do not accelerate this programme on the territory of the country. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u46	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Dear Minister Ananiev, come and make a replica.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, we have no differences in our views on what should happen in our country with regard to lung transplantation. As long as a donor appears, as long as there is an organ, we and the team of the University Hospital Lozenets, together with our colleagues from Hanover, will continue to do as many transplants as we have donors, and, of course, the compliance of these donors to the condition of the patients. So we are simultaneously building capacity, expanding capacity and, at the same time, together with the university hospitals, we will continue the transplants until the completion of the training of the other specialists, which will start training in 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u48	Thank you, Minister Ananiev, all the more so that the answer was positive. We continue with the next question by the MPs Veska Nencheva and Valentina Naydenova about the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment Who's gonna ask the question? Here you go, Ms. Nencheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u49	Madam President, colleagues! Mr. Minister, once again in the beginning of October, tensions were created at the Hospital "Dr. Kiro Popov" in Karlovo, specifically in the Children's Department and Department of Internal Diseases. Because of the resignations from nurses, people in seven municipalities were threatened by medical care, which is about 70,000 patients. Unfortunately, in the last three or four years, serious situations have arisen in the hospital in other wards, for which the assistance of the Ministry of Health and RZI is sought. Our concerns to date with Dr. Naydenova are related to what is happening at the Hospital. Is there a solution to the escalated tension with the resignations of nurses from the Children's Department and the Internal Diseases Department, and what is it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u50	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Dear Minister, please come in and answer the question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Naydenova and Ms. Nencheva, Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment Its operational management is the responsibility of its manager and the management of the rights of the sole owner of capital is the Municipal Council of Karlovo. With regard to the escalated tension between the staff of the medical establishment and the 17 resignations submitted in September this year, we received confirmation that an agreement was reached with the President of the Municipal Council As a result of the agreement reached, all applications submitted by medical professionals for termination of their employment are withdrawn and so far there are no tensions and protests by those working at the Hospital "Dr. Kiro Popov." In view of the expected increase in hospital aid funds under the Draft Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020 and, respectively, an increase in hospital revenues for the NHIF contract activity, as well as the planned increase in the minimum wage for the following year, the manager of the medical establishment plans a further increase in the remuneration of the staff as of 1 January 2020, so that the hospital will attract young doctors and health care professionals and increase the quality of the healthcare services. We also received assurance from the manager of the hospital that the Methodical Guidelines of the Ministry of Health for the formation of staff costs in public and municipal hospital care facilities are respected, as well as the recommended ratio between the basic salaries for a doctor, a health care specialist and a health care professional, without causing difficulties in the care of current duties or aggravating the financial situation of the hospital. With the introduction of Ordinance No 5 of 17 June 2019 on the establishment of standards for financial activity applied by public and municipal hospital services and complex oncology centres, as from the third quarter of 2019, the Ministry of Health has started monitoring by key indicators not only public hospitals but also hospitals with municipal capital participation. We expect the measures introduced by us to closely monitor the financial results and the results of the work to improve financial discipline and optimize the costs of hospital care facilities and provide opportunities for raising the remuneration of medical professionals. In conclusion, I assure you that the team of the Ministry of Health is doing everything possible to ensure fair and transparent procedures in determining the remuneration of medical professionals. The necessary legal conditions have been created for this. All efforts are aimed at achieving a balance between the financial opportunities of medical institutions and the level of remuneration of staff, but the Minister of Health cannot unilaterally determine the amount of remuneration and the conditions under the individual contracts of hospital care workers. I am confident that the municipality of Karlovo will also be empathetic and supportive in order for those working at the hospital to be able to receive adequate remuneration in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u52	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Who's gonna make a line? Here you are, Ms. Nencheva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u53	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, I said in vain that the hospital is municipal and that in the last three or four years your assistance has been actively sought to solve many of the problems that arise, unfortunately. I am pleased that to some extent you can guarantee on behalf of the Ministry support for the Hospital D r Kiro Popov.But I hope this will happen for real, because only with promises you see that problems cannot be overcome. They actually appear in a period that rather creates tension, and people seem ready to expect further tensions in the next compartment. Because, although you have managed to control the tension, we want to inform you that the medical specialists in Karlovo are ready to continue fighting for better working conditions and an opportunity for qualification. With the question of the municipal hospital in Karlovo, we are actually paying attention again not only to it, but also to municipal hospitals in general. You miss again, unfortunately, it is also seen in the 2020 budget, financing medical professionals of a basic employment contract to other health structures that are municipal property. These are the medical centers, and there is the help that we have in the hospital, primary, emergency, specialized hospital care, again remain in suspense and ambiguity with the pay. The payment is not good, so our emphasis on Karlovo Municipal Hospital is actually an emphasis on your policy for all municipal hospitals in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u54	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. There's not gonna be a duvet. We move on to the next question to Minister Ananiev. He is asked by the National Representative Georgi Gokov about working conditions and payment in the system of medical expertise. Here you are, Mr. Gokov. You have the floor again.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Mr. Minister, my question is about working conditions and pay, especially in the medical expertise system. I'm aware that health issues are quite serious. This may be a more unnecessary issue to resolve, but I will tell you that this issue stems from the fact that I have visited two or three TelK compartments in two district cities in recent months. The people there, when they recognized me, spontaneously told me: Mr. Gokov, come see what conditions of work we work in and let us tell you what salaries we receive. I've developed a very serious question for you, because there are problems, the pay is low, and the work is very hard. Doctors do not want to work in these committees because of low pay and poor working conditions. There are no job candidates, but it's not that people don't want to work this job, it's just that it stops them from going to work at Telk's. So I'm going to ask you the question: are you predicting changes in the way labor pay is made in the medical expertise system, including regional medical records? Do you also foresee what increase in salaries next year? This is an extremely important issue because it concerns generally the functioning of TelK. Perhaps the wage formation as a more dignified salary is the way to end corruption, if you will, in the TelK committees. What are your intentions, Minister, for Telk?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u56	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u57	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, part of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure and the organisation of work of the bodies of medical expertise and of the regional medical experts are related to the establishment of a better organisation of work of the bodies of medical expertise, which aims to facilitate them, to systematise them electronically and to make available all available documentation and information related to the certification of persons, as well as to reduce the administrative burden in the procedures for certification and appeal. As soon as the Rules of Procedure were amended in August 2018, it was allowed to rule only on the basis of available documentation, when it fully identifies the degree of damage and functional deficiency of the diseased body and/or system, without calling for an appearance to the expert committee for a clinical examination. In addition to reducing the administrative burden on disabled persons, this also makes it easier for TELMK itself to deconstruct the mandatory involvement of a doctor with a speciality in the disease profile, since the preliminary comprehensive preparation of the medical documentation is essential for the correct assessment. It is also important to note that the practice until the adoption of the requirement to participate in the expertise of a doctor on the profile of the disease introduced in August 2018 is longstanding and does not prove any problems in the certification of the persons. It is for this reason that I believe that dropping the requirement to participate in the members of TelK of specialists on all the profiles of the disease does not only make the work of the committees worse, but also optimizes the requirements for their completion in accordance with the needs and capabilities. Regarding the financing of TelK's activities, the formation of the remuneration of employees, working conditions and the organisation of the work, I can say the following: Territorial Expert Committees are structural units of the relevant medical institutions, which are established under the Commercial Law and are authorised to operate under the Law on Medical Institutions. As such, TELK workers receive for their medical expertise remuneration fixed by the management of the relevant medical establishment. The substantial change in the Health Act, which enabled the doctors from the Chambers of TelK to exercise their medical profession at the same time fully, while also carrying out diagnostic and medical activities in the medical establishment in which they work, contributes to the formation of higher remuneration from more than one source. In relation to what has been said above, I believe that the Ministry of Health has made the necessary legislative changes that guarantee both better working conditions and better pay for doctors in the medical expertise system, not providing for other changes in this direction. Regional health inspections to which the regional files of medical expertise are structured shall be an authority of the state administration and shall, as such, be subject to the relevant regulations, including the regulation on the salaries of public administration officials. The resources provided for in the 2020 project for staff are increased compared to the 2019 budget by 36 million. $100,000. lv. The draft budget for 2020 reflects the increase in the amount of the minimum wage and related social contributions, as well as the means to raise staff costs in accordance with the state policy for raising the incomes of the employed in the budgetary sphere in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u58	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u59	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. I introduced myself not in detail, but I got acquainted with the changes in the organization of medical expertise and its regional files. On the changes you have proposed, for example, the TelK Commissions can be created without a specialist doctor, I have a particular opinion on the matter, although you believe that this will lead to improvement of TelK's work. I think it will lead to difficulties, but the future will show. I am not a specialist in this area, so I cannot argue that my opinion is more relevant than your opinion, for example. One thing I am sure: that doctors and specialists have and will have to work at Telk as long as they have a decent pay in them. If we can't get them a decent paycheck, they'll start running away with the non-specialists that we include in the telk committees. So even after your answer, I will allow myself to say that the serious problem with working conditions and pay at TelK remains. In the context of the fact that in the whole country the pay is a problem and the income from work at all, I understand it. There is no way in one area to develop more payouts in the relationships in payments than in another. At least we can talk a lot about working conditions. I'm not going to describe you. I saw the environment they work in. You must be better acquainted with me in this direction. I think the Ministry may make a little more effort and pay a little more attention to this activity in parallel to what we are doing to limit the forgery of the TELMs, including in the context of all the other changes we are making at TelK. Let's pay a little attention to the people working on these committees!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Would you like the word for the doppelganger? [[Reference between the President and Minister Kiril Ananiev.]] No. We should thank Minister Ananiev for his participation in parliamentary control. We move on to the questions to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Mrs. Desislava Taneva. The first question is from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Svetla Bachvarova on the National Programme for the Prevention, Supervision, Control and Elimination of Animal Diseases, including the 2019 You have the floor, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, fellow MPs! Dear Minister, we have received very disturbing signals regarding the implementation of the National Programme for the Control, Supervision, Prevention and Elimination of Animal Diseases, including the 2019. These disturbing signals are related to the need for timely, accurate and extremely important implementation of the Programme. The result of the European Commission's inspection of the activities of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency in the past few weeks is extremely disturbing. The main purpose of this check is whether in Bulgaria, on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, there is a spread of veal, which has not passed a test for the disease "crazy cow." And what comes out of this check? On the territory of our country since the beginning of the year, not all animals have passed the disease test for mad cow. This is extremely, very disturbing and dangerous. In this regard, our questions to you are: are the vaccines necessary for the implementation of the National Animal Disease Prevention, Supervision, Control and Elimination Programme, including the 2019 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u62	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u63	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In order to provide the necessary vaccines and diagnostics necessary for the implementation of the National Programme for the Prevention, Supervision, Control and Elimination of Animal Diseases, including those for the period 2019 - 2021, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency shall open procedures for the award of public contracts. Decision No 11-688 of 5 April 2019 opened a procedure with the subject The same was carried out and resulting in a contract providing delivery. Decision of 10 April 2019 opens the procedure for the award of a public contract with the subject of a vaccine against bluetongue serotype 4 in ruminants. The same was carried out and resulting in a contract providing delivery. Decision of 25 April of the Executive Director of the Agency opens a procedure with subject "Supply of vaccines and diagnostics for the implementation of the measures under the National Programme" comprising 85 separate positions. During the period of submission of tenders, no such items have been received according to a total of 29 vaccine and diagnostic units and have been terminated by a corresponding decision of the Executive Director. The Executive Director's Decision of 16 August selected contractors in 47 separate positions for the delivery of vaccines and diagnostics, appealing the decision to the Commission for Protection of Competition in its selection of performers in several separate positions. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency has deposited opinions on complaints received within the legal period and proceedings on these complaints are pending. By Decision of 24 October, the Commission for the Protection of Competition left the appeal brought against the decision of 16 August in its selection of a contractor under Section 2, but the same subject to appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court within 14 days. By decision of 5 September of the Executive Director, nine more lots of the above-mentioned public contracts have been terminated because of tenders submitted to those exceeding the financial resource or not eligible for presentation, including for form, manner and duration, or are inadequate and have been removed by decision of 16 August of the Executive Director. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency is in the process of concluding contracts for the award of public contracts under the separate positions on which there are selected performers and are not appealed, including for Item 1 The Executive Director's Decision of 11 October opened a procedure with subject "Supply of vaccines and diagnostics for the implementation of the measures under the National Programme" comprising 35 separate positions. The same was held and out of 11 invited participants only three submitted offers. As a result of Decision of 30 October of the Executive Director, 10 additional positions for the delivery of vaccines and diagnostics have been ranked and selected contractors. The Treaties shall be concluded as soon as possible. At 23 positions, the contract has been terminated due to non-submission of tenders, and two more positions should be terminated due to tenders exceeding the financial resources foreseen for the implementation of the Programme. By decision of 12 November 2019 of the Executive Director, a negotiated procedure was opened without prior notice for the award of a contract with the subject of the contract. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency will have a contract for this diagnosis as soon as possible. Thus, out of 87 different types of vaccines and diagnostics needed to implement the National Program, there are contracts or are in the process of concluding 60 of them. With this, the opportunities provided for in the Public Procurement Act are exhausted. The remaining 27 types of diagnostics at which no offers were submitted or the price offered by the participants exceeds the financial resource continue to be provided and to seek the provision by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency through its departments and district directorates as independent legal persons who could buy them independently in the respective volume.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u65	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! The positive thing is that the National Prevention Program has been adopted for three years. The aim of this programme is not only to have predictability in the measures that the State takes with regard to animal prevention, but also the financing of the activities in contracts with veterinarians, but, as it appears, also in the case of best wishes for veterinarians who have concluded contracts to meet their commitments in time, the problem of procurement, as far as I understand it, does not, from April to December in any way facilitate their work and create serious problems, firstly, with delays or with poor performance of the events that are mandatory. You said an order was made for the delivery of a bluetongue vaccine, but its late delivery in practice created the conditions for this part of the program not to be applied. It's the same with the diagnostics and the brucellosis that weren't delivered on time. Therefore, this whole system, which has been operating for a long time, on public procurement that is being appealed, then we have new and new procedures, does not actually work. Our specific question is: will a way out of this situation still be found, even more so, that from now on it is known about the 2019 Do you think that sufficient measures have been taken in time to implement public procurement, not April, for example, to start from January, given that they are in some form being appealed or that there are no suppliers to meet all those requirements that we make and which, respectively, everyone expects from the Food Agency to implement in their power, to become a fact and not to worry, not to be unable to fulfil certain activities within the specific deadlines for which they are assigned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u66	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mrs. Minister. Two minutes. [[Definitions between the President and Minister Desislava Taneva.]] You'll save it at the expense of your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u67	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Professor Bachvarova, as usual in any administration, there may have certainly been conditions in which the launch of a public procurement may begin earlier. In general, no matter what delivery we are talking about, these procedures are usually appealed and usually cannot be respected the time limits that are normally sought by an administration, and I can also say about other public procurements in the same system for other supplies. The good news is that against the background of everything I have presented in my exhibition, I can say that for 2020 there is everything provided so that the activities under the National Programme can be fully implemented and within a period of time, which is the positive news. If there are opportunities in the Public Procurement Act for the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency or in general to have a faster order, it would be a relief for everyone. I can only add that, in the years back when the changes to the POP have been debated, we have had intentions and demands, perhaps you of your parliamentary group, the Food Agency in this part to be in a different order, so that this delay does not happen because it is really related to animal health, including people, but we are in general order and these delays occur.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u68	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. There is also a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Svetla Bachvarova concerning a ban on activities in the forest areas in relation to African swine fever. Here you are, Mr. Stoilov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, colleagues! Madam Minister, almost two months ago, we asked you a question about the ban on activities in the forest areas in relation to African swine fever. At the time, the situation was tense, then all interested parties - hunters, sponges, woodworking companies in the sector, herbalists and others - expressed their discontent. There were even organized protests back then. Now the situation is different and the actuality and focus of our question is different. Our questions to you are: in what part of the forest territories of the Republic of Bulgaria is a ban on carrying out any activities other than those provided for in the prevention and control of African swine fever, and what are the measures and actions that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry carries out and will take in relation to the restoration of all activities in the forest areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u70	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. You have the floor to answer, Madam Minister, within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u71	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Thanks for asking. You correctly made a retrospective of the debate on this subject. What is the information as of September 27th? the date of the question you asked. The total area of the forest areas in the infected areas with cases of African swine fever detected for which a complete ban was introduced to carry out the activities is 381 thousand. 366 hectares or 9% of the total area of forest areas in the country. On 1 October 2019, by my order, I have established Guidelines for the designation of the infected zones around an established case of African swine fever in the wild pig, and designated biosecurity measures. According to this order, an infected area with a total area of not less than 200 sq. km divided into three sub-areas: the area around the case of the disease, which has a radius of one kilometer, and an area of not less than 3 sq. km, at least 25 sq. m. km in the area outside Sub-area B with an area of not less than 172 sq. km. The period covered by the full prohibition in Sub-area A from 60 to 30 of the last positive case of African swine fever found, a complete ban on carrying out activities, with the exception of those relating to the implementation of measures for the prevention and eradication of the disease and emergency activities, shall be introduced only for sub-area A. You can see what three times, multiple times the reduction is about the limitations of the previous order. Thus, the area of the forest and agricultural territories to which the ban applies is reduced more than 60 times by 200 sq. It's going to be 3 square miles. km. As of 14 November 2019, the total area of agricultural and forestry areas in Sub-area A for which a full ban was imposed is 7850 hectares, with only the area of forest areas amounting to 2324.2 hectares, which is 0.05% of the total area of forest areas in the country. All farm and agricultural activities can be carried out in Sub-areas B and C. The collection of mushrooms, herbs, truffles, tourism, hunting and other activities can be carried out, but only after ensuring and strictly complying with minimum conservation measures against the spread of the disease. What biosecurity measures include if there is a question, then I can clarify it. In order to facilitate stakeholders, the Forest Executive Agency has developed and maintained an interactive map with detailed information on the infected areas that can be found on the Agency's homepage. It should be stressed that all the prohibitions and restrictions introduced in respect of activities in forest areas are in order to prevent the spread of the disease and its eradication, which is extremely difficult for feral pigs, too, can take years. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] As part of the measures to prevent and deal with the disease in order to reduce the density of the wild boar population, a financial stimulus of 50 BGN was introduced. for every wild boar shot at an individual hunt. Separately, for each found carcass of wild boar are paid 150 leva, which aims to encourage vigilance and timely signal submission by citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u72	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u73	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Thank you for the information that has been provided. The numbers are many, we can hardly analyze them as quickly as possible on the move, but several questions provoke our attention to this topic at present. First, that the bans for the most part and most of the forest areas were during a period when the collection of herbs and mushrooms was most active. In other words, this activity in the forests was in practice limited indeed in the period that was important for those involved in this activity. Apart from that, a matter that remains of attention is the provision of firewood and, in general, the ban on any activity in this regard. Let's talk about Zone A, where there's a total ban on anything. Do you even have any information on whether there have been problems in these regions regarding the provision of firewood? Furthermore, the undertakings that have known implementation plans and these plans relate to certain financial flows to be received as a result of this activity, did they have difficulties in implementing their plans, and did this have an impact on their payment and financial flows for 2019? Otherwise, the biosecurity measures, as you said, were edited several times and changed several times given the dynamics of the situation. I believe that this is some experience gained that I do not wish to be used in cases like this, but it is still a fact that there should also be crisis plans that can be implemented at the moment when any event occurs, and not only in the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, but also in agencies that concern the spread of the disease as is the Executive Forest Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u74	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Madam Minister, within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Bachvarova! Yeah, at a time when the order to ban an infected area of 200 square feet was in effect. km, there was some tension. I think it's always overexposed. In the previous version of the order, restricted zones eventually represented only 9% of each territory. Yes, in the present case, in those 9% with this restriction, it is certain that people who have carried out different activities during this period, which is not more than two months, have been affected as activities. But it's a national episode, it affects all people, and we couldn't compromise on the measures we took, because otherwise the damage would have been even greater. Regardless of all this, after a proper inspection by the European Commission, active communication with them and the industry, we have made the current order which I have explained: currently there are no problems with providing firewood. An organization was established in the previous order where there are restricted areas, these firewood to be provided from neighbouring territories, so there was never a problem or a topic at all. In this sense, we believe that everything that was to be done for the population is secured for the next winter season. With regard to the financial performance of enterprises, I do not think that they are the most important. For some of them, they would certainly have a reflection, yet they would still end up with positive results. Last, I would like to say just a few data, as everyone's effort is to deal with the current hunting season with the plan to depopulate the wild boar. On Tuesday, 13 900 wild boars were shot, representing 17% of the shooting plan for the wild boar in connection with its serious landfilling and reaching standards that, according to science, do not pose a risk or the risk of the spread of African swine fever is greatly reduced. It's a small percentage for us. We call for activity in this direction, including measures, and the work they do on the ground, to include the shooting of the wild boar. We have established an organization this year for African swine fever samples that each hunting party sends through the respective forestry for the shot wild boars to come within one week. It's still two weeks somewhere, but we're working towards improving this deadline.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u76	Thank you, dear Minister. Next, a question from the National Representative Irena Anastasova concerning problems in the delivery of the school fruit and school milk. You have the floor, Mrs. Anastasova, to develop your question within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u77	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! This question itself, as it is asked, is no longer relevant because it is a question asked nearly two months ago. But the problems involved in the supply of fruit and milk in schools and kindergartens in the country remained relevant. I have many signals from both the beginning of the school year and from days ago in Sofia, Veliko Tarnovo and some other settlements. The truth is that this year's deliveries started with chaos and confusion, the result of which was the lack of fruit and milk for children for twenty days. They're the victims again, and they're actually the most innocent. They became hostages of corporate interests that have been raging since the very beginning of the existence of these two schemes. In this regard, I ask you to answer the question I have asked: what action has the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry taken to address the cited problems? What is the solution to these problems now? How many schools and kindergartens in the country has there been a breach of supply since the beginning of the school year? How will these educational institutions and especially children and students be compensated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. You have the floor to respond within three minutes, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Anastasova, and at the previous parliamentary control I waited my turn. You were on election leave and so it happened that the answer was later. Yes, at the moment your question is not relevant, but it doesn't matter, let me give you some figures. 138 applications for approval, including 3202 educational establishments, have been submitted at the time under the School Milk Scheme, 120 certificates of approval of 2787 educational establishments have been issued. During the school fruit scheme, 175 applications for approval, including 3266 educational establishments, 154 certificates of approval of 2811 educational establishments were issued. All applications for approval have been processed by the State Fund......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is apparent from the data submitted under the two schemes that, within one calendar month, the State Fund of the Republic of Bulgaria has processed 100% of the submitted applications and 90% of them have been issued certificates of approval. According to the applicable regulatory framework............................................................................................... 13bd of the Ordinance, there is no time limit for the conduct of an applicant selection procedure, with educational institutions having the opportunity to submit an application for participation under the schemes throughout the school year. Yes, the submission of applications was delayed due to the instability of the legal framework, which the State Fund waited for in the final to have confidence in the applicable regulations, but processed most quickly all the applications submitted. At this time, for this school year, we have practically reached the volumes that we had in the previous year. I agree with your analyses in your presentation on what problems there have been and for what reasons. Yes, it is. The volumes have reached and the supplies are executed, and after the start of applications in some educational institutions... even earlier than the previous year. The State Fund has taken several more steps. It's not about that, but let me say it. Make the relevant changes to the Methodology for fixing prices for the payment of supplies, given the two-year recommendations of the certifying authority of the agricultural support funds, and according to this methodology the average price is even higher, with the exception of two products in fruit, due to, of course, taking into account the market trend. All payment requests to be submitted by suppliers, the State Fund shall process within one month. As you can see, the data shows that with all this, regardless of everything that has been created, the Fund is doing well within the month and the supplies are currently being made.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u80	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u81	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! Regulation on the terms and conditions for the implementation of schemes for the provision of fruit and vegetables and milk and milk products in educational institutions "School fruit' and "School milk' and "School milk' in force from 4 October 2016, changed once again in October 2016; second time "November 2016'; third time "School fruit'; fourth time "July 2017'; fifth time "May 2018'; sixth time "June 2018', seventh time "November 2018'; eighth time "March 2019'; ninth time again March 2019. It's no coincidence that I'm listing all these changes, taking my time for the backdrop. In three years, that's nine changes! What's going on?! Who couldn't you or couldn't please? Do not tell me that it is very difficult to make a legal mechanism for the delivery of fruit and milk in schools and kindergartens, because you have been repeating this for many years. To my similar question last year about the low quality of the delivered products Minister Porozhanov then replied that he should protect the Bulgarian producers. You lied! It had to protect nine of the largest producers of 225 such in the dairy industry, for example. And you did it! But the problem is different. The problem is, with all this, you ruined the good idea. You started ruining it the moment the big business realized that rivers of easy and guaranteed government money could flow from here. So the consumption of various foods, as written in the Ordinance, the acquisition of knowledge and healthy eating habits is actually just a front to satisfy corporate interests. That's why it came down to these problems. Where are the kids in all this? Make a working regulation finally and working not with loading organizational commitments and whatever else of school manuals and teachers, but a working regulation for the benefit of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u82	Thank you, dear Mrs. Anastasova. Would you like a douche? Please, Mrs. Minister, for the duplicate, please, within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Anastasova! A whole new supply regulation is currently being drawn up on a proposal from the Ministry. It is prepared by a working group in the Council of Ministers under the chairmanship of Deputy Prime Minister Mariana Nikolova. With regard to your note that a legal mechanism should be found. If it is legal, it is in the prerogatives of the National Assembly. In terms of corporate interests. I am definitely separate from that conclusion of yours. The analysis of this for the current school year is clear that there are many more suppliers than in the previous year. In general, the implementation of the school milk scheme started and we resumed it during the first time I was a minister of agriculture. Unlike the school fruit, 81% of its budget is co-financed by national funds. There is very little European support there. For me, these are two very good schemes. In the past period there were definitely problems. I hope that the new regulation will give us a sustainable regulatory act. Everyone will have the right to access this market, and it is minimal in relation to total volumes. I just want to say that yesterday on the occasion of another letter I received, I decided to make a very simple account, I do not claim exceptional accuracy, according to statistics, on milk, cheese, cheese, oils. The budget provided by the Bulgarian State for this scheme is just over 1% of the total market of Bulgarian dairy products produced. In this sense, I would like to say that as an interest and market share there is indeed very little, it follows that local producers, who are part of the local community, have the greatest opportunity to access these supplies.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u84	Thank you, dear Minister. There is a question from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov concerning one of the measures to counter African swine fever. Here you are, Mr. Yordanov, to develop your question within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u85	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, one of the great mystifications of the current 2019 is African swine fever in Bulgaria. I also say mystification because so far we are not aware that a pig has been reported with clinical symptoms of one of the four forms of African plague or that a dead pig has been found with a developed clinical picture of African plague. It is known that the Ministry of Health proposed, discussed and took several precautionary measures to limit the migration of feral pigs both within the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and from neighbouring countries of Bulgaria. One of these measures was the use of wolf urine. It is known that your Ministry has purchased at the great price of 5 million. lv. About 80,000 vials of wolf urine. In this regard, my specific question to you is: firstly, by what mechanism was the cost of buying wolf urine, in our opinion, twice as much as the market? Secondly, where was wolf urine used, by what mechanism and method? Thirdly, after all, what are the results of using this precautionary measure?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u86	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u87	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Yordanov! On the basis of the Decree of 5 July 2018 of the Council of Ministers and the Order of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry on 25 July 2018, the construction of a fence facility along the land border with the Republic of Romania of over 133 km began. The construction of the fence with a height of 1,30 m is a standard four-line fence with an additional diagonal line, is completed on 28 August 2018. Four rows of barbed wire parallel to the ground are stretched on wooden stakes, one row parallel to the ground, diagonally from the Bulgarian side is placed a cutting wire type. The total value of the fence facility is 1 million. Three hundred and thirty thousand. lv.: stakes BGN, barbed wire BGN, cutting wire type BGN, expenses for external services and cleaning of the polo area about 97 thousand. BGN, posting of stakes and tightening of the wire about 55 thousand. BGN, costs for lv. In order to take measures to prevent the spread of the disease in our country and in connection with the Order of the Council of Ministers of 2018. No 130, as well as on the grounds of art. 20, para. 4 of the Public Procurement Act The Executive Forest Agency and its territorial structures have concluded three contracts with a company with limited liability based in the city of Sofia................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ with VAT. The total value of the synthetic substance amounts to BGN 81 396. with VAT. The contracts are concluded, what is next: Contract No 134 of 6 July with a contracting entity The Executive Agency for Forests and Contracting Company with a limited liability company with a value of BGN 27 142,2 and BGN 887 were purchased. with VAT; Contract No 4 of 3 August, with a contracting entity, the Directorate of Nature Park "Bulgaria" and the contractor the same company "V" and "M" Ltd. "887 sets of the same value; Contract No 17551 of 6 August with the contracting entity Directorate of Nature Park "Strandzha" and the contractor again the same company "V" and "Mg" Ltd. were purchased 886 sets of value 27 111,6 BGN. with VAT. The costs of purchasing the substance are targeted by Decree of the Council of Ministers No 130 of 2018, with an invoice and a transmission protocol for the synthetic substance supplied for each contract. A decision to purchase pheromones to be placed at the same time as the construction of the fence was taken at a working meeting of the Coordination Council of the Minister of Agriculture established in June 2018 in order to coordinate the measures of the African swine fever disease prevention and control plan. The synthetic substance is referred to as a repellant for the repulsion of wild boars. The synthetic substance is a volatile substance with an acute suffocating smell that resembles a wolf smell. The cuts are vials of five milliliters, placed in a cardboard box of 10 pieces. The set consists of a two-part vial of active substance and wick. The criterion for choosing the company is the short term of delivery of the synthetic substance your vice. The substance bottles are placed at a distance of about 70 meters from each other along the fence. The places with intensive movement of wild animals are placed at less distance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u88	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u89	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! I have received some answers that are subject to further clarification. The first, you said: in relation to a decree, not: in the execution of a decree, which are quite different things. That is, the particular measure you have decided to propose or the team of your Ministry has not been prescribed in the order in question, which we will further clarify. The numbers you mention about the purchased quantity and their value differ from our data, which we will also specify further. After all, I did not get an answer: where on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria are these pheromones used and what is the result of this activity and is their use justified, as is the decision of the team that you mentioned?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u90	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Here you are, Mrs. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u91	Mr. Chairman, Mr. MP! In my reply, I said who proposed this decision in 2018 the Council to the Minister and the funds by which this decision is purchased and implemented are according to Decree No 130. There is a common decision on measures to be taken. As regards the performance assessment, I can only say that you can also get acquainted with the opinions of the Centre for Risk Assessment. Regarding the need to build the fence and its role. In all measures relating to the prevention of African swine fever, the provision of data on the movement of the virus, the fight against the disease, as well as the repellant used, the colleagues who are employees of the Regional Forest Directorate in the region and the Northeastern State enterprise carrying out a regular tour of the partition facility have not detected the passage of game over the period of repelence efficiency. This is the opinion of the staff responsible for servicing the facility concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u92	Thank you, dear Minister. We are going to ask the MP Dora Yankova about providing financial support with a focus on small and medium-sized enterprises. You have the floor to develop your question, Mrs. Yankova, within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u93	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! My question is about financial support with a focus on small and medium-sized enterprises. In the government programme, you have once again made a priority of sustainable, competitive market-oriented agriculture. Here, in this regard, the conclusions of the realities of Bulgarian life in the Bulgarian village, of Bulgaria as a whole give me reason to ask one question: what does your Ministry for Financial Support with a focus on small and medium-sized enterprises and stimulating profitable agricultural production and market equality do? I'll give you a few more announcements why I'm asking. On the periphery of the rural territory of the district cities for 14 years now, with the exception of perhaps this planning period, Bulgarian farmers are not equal in terms of resource. Many speculations are made in this regard, but it is a fact. Secondly, my concern is that according to trade unions in 2019 we have 36 thousand small farms and 2018 they were 42. Here we see a reduction of 6,000 something going on? Why is this happening? Is this program you're running inefficient, or is there other problems? In parallel with this, Agrostatistics (Agrostatistics), a newsletter that comes out, and it must be standing on your desk, on November 1st shows that it relates 2017. As of 2018, the number of cattle farming and sheep farming on average in the country decreased by 35%. This concern and what you have put into the Programme give me reason to ask you: are small and medium-sized enterprises equal on the market? Is there a focus so that they can receive financial support? Is profitable agricultural production being stimulated? I know that the big ones have access to all financial instruments, including European ones, that it is easier for them, but small Bulgaria has small producers and that is what I care about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u95	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Yankova, thank you for your question. I certainly will not have the time to respond and explain all measures to support the small ones, but I will give you the question to make sure that every measure of financial support for farmers is a small priority and focus. From the back in your exhibition, it is manipulative to use agrostatistical data to make your conclusion, for the simple reason that agrostatistics also covers family holdings that are not for the creation of agricultural product for trade, but for the support of the households themselves. Moreover, now in the debate on the new common agricultural policy and in the first switch-analysis, this was the main topic that the agricultural community communicates with the performer of the switch-analysis that he would then very distorted them. These 35% speak quite differently, not about this reduction of small farmers in the scope of this activity for the purpose of trading and receiving income, these are different things. Let's start as far as we can get. The support with the direct payment instruments is used in direct payments by several tools to focus support to small and medium-sized farms; the implementation of a distribution payment scheme; the imposition of a payment ceiling under the single area payment scheme (SPP); the provision of a higher rate for the first hectares and animals under tied support schemes. At present, registered farmers, including small and medium-sized farmers, can benefit from European subsidies, mainly through the SPP, the distribution payment scheme and the Green Direct Payment scheme, as well as the linked support schemes. The SPP shall support farmers who enjoy, on the basis of legal basis, areas on which they carry out agricultural activity. Support shall be an eligible hectare of area on which the agricultural activity is carried out. The distribution payment scheme shall determine a higher, equal payment per hectare for all beneficiaries for the first 30 hectares of each holding eligible for SPP support. In this way, the priority set out in the Programme to direct additional financial resources to this segment shall be implemented. Green direct payments shall be granted for eligible areas under the SPP provided that environmental requirements are met on the holding in so far as they are applicable to its type and size. For the 2018 campaign, the rates on the quoted schemes are in the following dimensions: SPP - BGN 195,73. per hectare; redetributive.. 137,55 BGN per hectare, and green direct per hectare. The holdings up to 100 hectares represent the majority of the beneficiaries under the single area payment scheme. A little bit of data. The holdings up to 30 hectares are 44,886, representing 74,5% of all requested beneficiaries with requested areas 3,502 290 acres, which they process. From 30 to 100 hectares are 9360 beneficiaries representing 15.5% of all beneficiaries with requested areas 4,858,120 acres. The redistributive payment scheme provides a targeted payment up to the 30th hectare, as I have already said. There is an annual budget of approximately 109 million on the farms. lv. The national budget in Bulgaria under the distribution payment scheme for the period 2015 - 2018, perhaps for the last one I said: 109, it is relatively similar. Here I can give data on all small farms and numbers, but I can see that my light is on. I'll continue to give information about the other instruments. The payment ceilings of the SPP payments shall be reduced by 5% for that part of the amount exceeding the remaining equivalent of 150 thousand. EUR and 100% for amounts exceeding the remaining equivalent of 300 thousand. EUR for the year concerned, excluding earlier business-related wages actually paid to farmers in the previous year, including taxes and social security contributions. According to the State Fund data, the amount of amounts withheld from the application of the cap on SPP payments for the campaigns is as follows: for 2018 this amount is 5 million 343. The amount saved from the ceiling goes to the Rural Development Programme for measures relating to the modernisation of small and medium-sized farms under the Thematic Sub-programme for Supporting Small Farms. Under the tied support schemes, schemes which have been implemented since 2015 and for the first time in my term of office, the first one, we introduced a modulation of the Separately, we have introduced a special tied support scheme within the scope of the livestock schemes, which is only for small and only for mountain. I can only list a few, because I'll run out of time. The tied support scheme for dairy cows to the 250th animal is BGN 301. Rate. The tied support scheme for meat cows or heifers up to the 250th animal is BGN 152. The tied support scheme for dairy cows under selection control up to 250th animal is 542 BGN and over 250 BGN is 434 BGN. The tied support scheme for sheep-mothers or goats-mothers under selection control is for 2018, because now for 2019 from 1 December we will start the payment, but in the same logic with 25 to 50% higher rate for the small animals to the 300th animal is 73.34 BGN, above the 300th 5867. For all schemes that total eight for livestock farming, for tied support with European funds this is the principle. Under national transitional aid are under other rules something that we cannot introduce, but there is a demarcation in respect of livestock farming with the target of tied support schemes. For fruits and vegetables here the modulation is 50% for the first 30 hectares. It's only for small and medium-sized. I can say a few more data regarding support. Candidates for tied support shall be holdings below 50 animals, up to 200 animals for ewes and goats and holdings up to 30 hectares of fruit or vegetables compared to the total number of applicants under tied support schemes. Only, attention, figures: the supported beneficiaries with up to 30 hectares are 98.57 per cent of all; vegetables up to 30 hectares of all; small ruminants up to 200 animals That is to say, all this support linked to the high rate of these targets represents those percentages of the overall scope of support. Areas and animals for tied support on holdings. Here are not the number of beneficiaries, but the number of population is also interesting data. Despite the weather, let me introduce them to you. I am glad that you asked this question, because in it I can tell for any measure how this emphasis is only on small and medium-sized, and how in each instrument this target receives higher funds than the common ones. Areas and animals for tied support in holdings up to 50 animals, milk or meat, bovines up to 200 animals, sheep-mothers and/or goats and holdings up to 30 hectares of fruit or vegetables compared to the total number of applicants under tied support schemes: Fruits up to 30 hectares of the farm that claim this support for 2019 represent 74% of all areas that are claimed under these fruit schemes. I think you understand what I'm trying to explain. The small farms that claim these areas account for 71% of all these fruits. Small ruminants are sheep and goats that claim their volume represents 60% of the total volume of sheep and goats mothers. The meatloaf is 51% of the whole goal, and the service here is the most industrialized holding of 39%. Extra. The most vulnerable farmers have the opportunity to benefit from a specially developed scheme for small farms receiving direct support under light conditions. Farmers participating in the Small Farmers Scheme shall be exempted from green requirements and from cross compliance control. Payments under the Small Farm Scheme shall replace payments made under all other schemes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u96	Thank you, dear Minister. You've been talking for ten minutes. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u97	Yeah, I'm sorry. There are many schemes and I have not affected the Rural Development Programme at all and the national support measures. In national support measures, where deminimise and others are, there we have placed a ceiling directly in the national funds. There de Minimis is only for this target, which to me, as a minister, gives me the big ones. ♪ You watch on TV how discontented you are.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u98	Thank you. You have the floor, Mrs. Yankova, two supplementary questions, but in this comprehensive answer...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, it may be good in the questions you'll answer after that. You say, up to 30 hectares, but 30 hectares is 300 acres, that's not small. It's a lot of information, it's bulky, I'll see it. I will have the opportunity for the representatives of small farms who have asked me to ask the question and who I represent is also my electoral area, to give it to them and to be satisfied. I have a supplementary question, and I'm asking you here from the stands to engage. In preparation for the next planning period on the periphery of Smolyan region, outside the city, Kardzhaliyska, Pazardzhiska and the other districts will be equal to all criteria, where the municipalities will be elected and will fall into the Rural Programme for access to measures and support? I mean, it's working now, and that's what people want to hear. There was also pre-election speculation about these things by your employees, but I didn't bother you with that topic. The second question I would like to ask you: access to European funds. When we place small, medium and large, they fight for one resource. The administrative capacity of one and the other is different. You will say:.. Tourism needs to help them!..................... to help them!..... but isn't it appropriate, what is your opinion, to divide them into two groups... the big ones to participate for one resource, the small ones to have opportunities to compete with each other? In this regard about small and large do you expect on the occasion of the increase of the insurance, which from 400 BGN. They went to £610. That's good, but it's not less than BGN 2,500. One year to bring in the smaller ones and go to the gray sector in the next period?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u100	Thank you. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u101	Start from the beginning. Regarding the equality of farmers from Smolyanska and Kardzhaliyska municipality, which were not within the scope of the Programme for the so-called rural areas. What is our vision and our conversations at the moment? I say, vision, vision, decision at the level of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests, which we stand for in the debate on the common agricultural policy, it is not finished. There is no solution for a multiannual financial framework, there is no continuation of the debate process and the adoption of strategic regulations. Our vision is as follows. We have talks with the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. The budget, as proposed as a project, although I put in place many member states, including Bulgaria, are defending the preservation of the budget of the common agricultural programme, but in the negative scenario of the Programme, if it is accepted as it is, we have a little over 15% reduction. In order to preserve the possibility of equal intensity of funds in individual areas for farmers in relation to the current programming period, we have had talks with the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, where they have a larger budget of their programme for the next programming period. For the agricultural community, we will rule out the criterion of the rural area as an advantage in applying for the various investment measures, i.e. what farmers want in so-called urban municipalities. The second question that you asked me about the possibility of having separate budgets for small farmers to apply differently, separately, not to compete with the big ones, but in relation to the different level of administrative capacity. Yes, the level of administrative capacity is definitely different. And right now, in the current Rural Development Programme, there are thematic sub-measures for small farms -- 4.1.2... And did you know that even candidates for these measures, even the budget that we have set, cannot reach it? Next year in March we have planned a reception again, and the Indicative annual program for the opening of the measures 11 are uploaded to the Ministry's website. It's practically the last one. The program is over, it is already going through the stage only to negotiate the receptions that are left and those that we will release for payment. It's all in the debate about the new Common Agricultural Programme. However, at present on measures and sub-measures that are for small and medium-sized farmers, the National Agriculture Council Office has prepared 6,000 projects free of charge for small farmers. This is the instrument that we intend to apply again for free preparation of the project proposals of small and medium-sized farmers. It's just that what we've done right now is for small farmers to have separate budgets in separate sub-measures. The practice shows that none of the admissions were even able to apply is as much as the size of the budget itself. However, all this has not been decided, it has to be resolved in the debate and with industry organizations, and will find a solution in the National Strategic Plan, which our country has an obligation to prepare once the European regulations are adopted for this and once our swot-analysis are ready. The deadline for their preparation, by the way, and surrender, is the end of December. Regarding the insurances, we will still see the final decision of the National Assembly. That's the proposal right now. Yes, I understand the reaction of farmers, this affects small farmers, just over 30 thousand are farmers who are supported by various measures and instruments of the Rural Development Programme with direct payments, including national transitional tobacco aid. This affects them and, of course, for small and medium-sized ones this is a great burden. However, we will see how the debate in the National Assembly ends on this topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u102	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor, Mrs. Yankova, to express your attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mrs. Taneva, Dear Minister Valchev! Ms. Taneva, I will continue to insist on seeing you are engaged in preparation for the next planning period. This injustice, which has been so far, including to oppose the municipality of the Municipality of.. start populist campaigns, see, you have to be in the Rural Program to become in every village streets, in each village the municipal roads, and according to..Regions in growth... as the focus is urban development, rural periphery and the lack of attitude of the Ministry of Finance for municipal roads actually leads to the lag of a large rural periphery across the country. This creates conditions for people living there to do both agriculture and livestock. What you think you have started the discussion is that you will have equal access and that you will not be excluded and others with priority is good. I had talks with the Regional Ministry to have more resources about this periphery, public measures, municipal roads and public buildings. With regard to the second question, which I have put, I am also a supporter of people in time to retire with a higher pension, to make sure that their insurance is greater. At the moment they are experiencing difficulties and I know that it would be good for you to consult them and actively participate in the work of your parliamentary group as a political person, so that we can give them the opportunity not to fail this year, but to recalibrate them. We know that the big ones are important, they need to be modernised and have access to the public resources, but I refer again to you: think about the small ones and the medium ones. When small and medium-sized areas live in rural areas, Bulgaria is alive and there will be no demographic problems, and demographic problems are primarily related to economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u104	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. We continue with the next question to Minister Taneva by the MPs Georgi Gokov and Svetla Bachvarova on the policies of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests in the payment of the one-off aid to the owners who took measures to clean and disinfect after the voluntary killing of the pigs because of the African plague. You have the floor, dear Mr. Gokov, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, there have been many questions and questions directly and indirectly related to African swine fever. This accumulation was largely caused by the opaqueness of the policies that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry applied when paying off the one-off aid to farms which took measures to clean and disinfect after the voluntary killing of pigs because of the African plague. Madam Minister, I would say that the scandals with the payment of this one-time aid of 300 leva. on a holding, on persons who have taken appropriate measures to clean and disinfect after killing pigs, acquire increasingly serious amounts. Earlier in time, I asked you a question about one of the municipalities in Stara Zagora region, but there are constantly reports of violations and this makes the issue very serious. Particularly unpleasant are the suspicions that this one-time aid has been used for election purposes by municipal administrations and mayors of settlements, which define Signals of such violations come from all regions of the country on all channels, including through the media, including through the admissions of the MPs. One of the leading TV stations in Bulgaria broadcast a broadcast of how swine fever is used in the campaign of candidate mayors related to the payment of benefits to Phantom people in Sliven Municipality, which received a very wide public response. The alerts for infringements such as mass destruction and as a specific point indicate the need for checks on payments made and assessment of whether there have been any infringements committed and if there are persons to whom benefits have been paid without having owned pigs at all. As a rule, violations, regardless of their nature, should not have a place in spending the money of the Bulgarian taxpayer, of funds from the European funds. There must be inadmissibility to this. With even greater emphasity, it is unacceptable to use these funds to buy political influence. My question to you, Madam Minister, is: what policies does the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forest follow when paying the one-off aid to farmers who have taken measures to clean and disinfect after the voluntary killing of pigs because of the African plague? How is control organised, including tracking the merits and justification of payments? How are the signals of violations checked and how is the correctness of the lists drawn up by the municipal administrations... by the mayor of the locality? Do the farmers involved fulfil the conditions governing the right to receive the aid? These questions, Madam Minister, this question does not cover all the questions that may be asked on the subject. Maybe we can expand it a little bit more, if you like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u106	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. You have the floor, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Gokov! Even the leading television, which tried on election day to make suggestions and manipulations that this activity and measure of summer helps someone to become mayor, did not save you from the devastating loss in Sliven municipality and district.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u108	Let's stick to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u109	Because you were quoting the leading TV station that for Sliven municipality was giving... I answer to you. In addition, the leading television station, one of the quoted villages is with your mayor before, and now, the pigs have nothing to do with the elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u110	The comment is inappropriate!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u111	I'm answering your question about leading TV. I'm saying she didn't help you with the devastating loss in Sliven County either.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u112	Stick to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u113	Firstly, to thank all the people who during the summer showed understanding of the really great crisis that we had with the HRS Episode and fulfilled our recommendations. The weather was really hard! I should certainly also thank all the people who helped us in this campaign: the Thracian University, the Veterinary Faculty, the University of Lesotechnics, the Risk Assessment Centre, all the researchers who stopped their vacations in the summer, and the month of August were on the field to explain what this disease is and how to deal with it. In order to support these people and to deal quickly with the episode, we introduced and implemented the financial support measure of BGN 300. on a farm. This was our recommendation and our decision.. under certain conditions which each holding had to meet and then carry out all activities. What was he supposed to answer? It should have grown up to five fattening pigs, as required by Ordinance No 44, that meat should have been used voluntarily and that the appropriate disinfection was carried out. The control over all this was of the veterinary doctor and the mayor of the village, who submitted the relevant lists to the Regional Epizootic Commission within a specified period, and after the meetings were presented for payment by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry in the part of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. This was the decision and this was the way that this decision was implemented. The funds, dear Mr. Gokov, are not European. They were Bulgarian because we have completed this payment and in this sense I can only give general data because there was no specific request for villages. I can give specific support data: 31 466 applications or holdings in 182 municipalities, in 1763 settlements. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the 439 thousand. £800. That's the data I can tell you. I have them in every municipality, in every village, if you have any further questions, I can say them.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u114	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Bachvarova, you have the floor for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u115	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! The issue is up-to-date because at the moment, there is still confusion with whether there are animals in small farms. They're being detected periodically. A few days ago, there was information like this in Burgas, I think. That is, the procedure that was decided to be applied to the benefits, you said a veterinarian and a mayor, who had to prepare those lists accordingly, showed that someone had not done their job under the Veterinary Activity Act. Because this responsibility is assigned to the mayors of the city each year to have a list of the number of animals and holdings in the respective settlement. I guess a lot of things had to be done on the move. Our additional questions with colleague Gyokov are two: firstly, have all the benefits been paid? You said numbers that are related to the nine million has been paid so far, but are there any more that are not satisfied and the payment has not been made? Were those lists public, or were they just prepared by the mayor and sent to the district governor? Perhaps one of the important issues is: how will control be carried out with regard to the requirement that in the following year these farms do not raise animals, regardless of the measures or any bio-security measures, they will take in respect of the African plague? So this one year, who will exercise periodic control and how will it be implemented accordingly on the ground? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. You have the floor to answer both questions, Madame Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u117	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Professor Bachvarova, first of all, let us be precise about this is not a measure of compensation, it is financial support for farms to implement these measures in order to stop the episiotry. This is important! These were private holdings without registration. I would just like to say that, where there were registered holdings corresponding to relevant biosecurity measures under the legislation in force, they are indeed receiving compensation in the general order, such as all registered establishments. So, here we are talking about a measure of financial support for the implementation of activities and measures in relation to the prevention of episiotry. These are the payments I've announced. Yes, the country has a total of 622 applications, which have been denied payment of such support and for every particular case you ask me about, as my list is here, I can also tell you for what reason this payment has been refused. Secondly, the control of the implementation of these measures and the process was public because, after drawing up these lists by farm, they were publicly uploaded by the mayor, in the interests of being visible to all people in the village, in the municipality, in regional epizootic committees. These lists were also public, and we practically started to realise payment after nearly two or three weeks after these lists were public and accessible at each of the settlements that wanted and could see who the people included in these lists were. By the way, signals were also received during this period, one way or the other, and those lists were corrected at the local level respectively. They came to us after all the complaints that were received on the ground through regional epizootic committees or the respective town hall. The applications are 622 and for each there is a particular reason. The cases that have been reported, I think we should all have learned a lesson about how we can raise domestic pigs for private purposes, for commercial purposes, and everyone has to comply with the legislation, and from now on there should not be any private holding unregistered. A registered private holding, even at risk of being affected, will now give other rights to the owners themselves. At the moment, as summer in the course and at the peak of the crisis, we have announced the plan. In public discussion is the Draft Amendment of the Veterinary Activity Act, Ordinance No 44, everything we have established as weakness, everything that will build on the levels of biosecurity of farms for commercial purposes has been done. For personal holdings we have proposed regulation, changed to the current one, no one has fulfilled it, unfortunately. I hope that January will end this legislation, and when spring comes, we will be ready to welcome the season that is at risk for this disease.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u118	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Bachvarova, to express your attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u119	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I would agree that 2019 was an extremely big challenge for the Ministry of Agriculture, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. Illnesses not only swine fever, but also a number of other diseases have created problems, but as if the most affected are small, family farms. Perhaps the positive thing about this whole situation is that it was seen and paid attention, it started talking about family farms. These are farms where no one has ever paid attention to them, no one has dealt with them. It's no coincidence that several times, I repeat the thesis that the mayors are not committed to following and knowing what is happening in the respective settlement. Therefore, these lists that you are talking about were supplemented, removed, there were tensions, there were people who protested for not being included in the lists, and others were benefiting accordingly. These problems would not have been present if the Animal Health Act was implemented, which is now signing such requirements as the texts are desirable and therefore the controls have been reduced to a minimum. Family farms, I would like to stress that they also want to have registered sites, but the requirements for them are as impossible as for large industrial farms, that if someone with two, three, four animals decides to make and register their object, they face incredible difficulties. I hope that this fact will be addressed in the new Animal Treatment Act. Perhaps one of the problems is, for example, that veterinarians do not want to conclude contracts with these farms for the reason that this requires much more effort to fulfil their commitments, especially for the state preventive programme. Hopefully we have learned our lesson, hopefully we have the opportunity, like any other European country, to know at any time what the state of the business sector is in the country, what the number of farms is and how they can be in some form controlled and also supported so as not to create these problems related mainly to the spread of diseases. In relation to the information of agrostatistics, what my colleague noted is 2018 compared to 2017, the number of small farms with up to three animals in cattle farming and up to nine in sheep farming has decreased by 34%, which means that there is a tide from growing in the small...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u120	They're not registered farmers.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u121	They are not registered farmers, but they are farms.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u122	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. The next question is yours again, so you can stay on the stand. It is about the financial situation of the Agricultural Academy. You have the floor to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u123	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! This is my last question to Minister Taneva. It is related to the financial situation of the Agricultural Academy, which should already be assessed by November as to what the actual situation in this scientific community is and therefore what problems may arise for next year, given the budgetary procedure and the adoption of budgets. I would like to emphasise that the amendments to the Agricultural Academy Act and the granting of financial autonomy, the extension of financial autonomy for the Academy, created prerequisites and expectations that there will be an opportunity to better manage budgets, to seek opportunities not only to pay relatively low wage levels, but also to invest, and to expand activities in the field of science in particular. Unfortunately, the signals I receive are not encouraging, and that is why my question to you is related to this: what is the financial situation of the Agricultural Academy at present? Have they also been determined and calculated what are the obligations to suppliers and also for compensation of staff? It is also extremely important for me to comment on the issue of the financial situation of the state enterprise, which was created by the amendments to the Law and whether, in its functioning, and also the activities which it carries out under the Law and by the Rules of Procedure, the requirements of the Law and the Rules of Procedure for the activities that the State undertaking performs for the scientific community are respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Professor Bachvarova, the figures of the Agricultural Academy as of 31 October 2019 under an annual revenue plan under the 2019 budget. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, the collected revenues amount to 13 287 thousand. The performance is 89%. On 31 October 2019 the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 707 thousand. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal 308,000. lv. or 87%. This appropriation is intended to cover the costs of studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to 619 thousand. lv. In the case of a specified plan, 30 million. $125,000. lv. 81% performance. Ten million were spent on alimony and taxes. 741 thousand. lv. In the case of a specified plan, 9 million. 945,000. lv. As of 31 October 2019, the overcost amounted to 796 thousand. lv. The largest proportion of the cost of maintenance is the cost of water, fuel and electricity. 54,000 were spent on scholarships. BGN, which is 20% of the budget plan. For membership, the cost is 9 thousand. lv. The capital costs amounted to 857 thousand. lv. or 65% of the budget. Interest paid on loans in the country 25 thousand. BGN, interest paid on financial leases and commercial credit at the amount of 2000 BGN. The expenditure incurred shall provide the activities of the scientific institutes and centres in the system of the Agricultural Academy for the implementation of policies in the field of agriculture and rural development and under the Research Programme. As of 31 October 2019 22 million were received. 538 thousand. lv. Transfers from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, 20 million Eight hundred and fifty-seven thousand. BGN, by PDOOS.. 10 thousand. BGN, from the State Fund lv. According to national scientific programs and competitions funded by the Ministry of Education and Science In the absence of any other comments, the Commission concludes that there is a need to assess whether the measures in question are compatible Five hundred thousand. BGN, including those that are overdue, amount to 1 million. 761 thousand. lv. The staff are current and worth 36 thousand. lv. for outstanding retirement benefits. The obligations for social contributions, total income tax to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food amount to 891 thousand. lv. The accumulated liabilities are due to a lower buying-in price of agricultural production. The seeds produced for sowing by the Institutes of the Agricultural Academy are difficult to realize, as seeds of imported varieties, hybrids with a powerful advertising campaign are offered on the market under conditions of deferred payment. In 2019 the prices of electricity and heat, preparations, fertilizers and security were increased. A large part of the agricultural equipment of the Agricultural Academy is depreciated, leading to an increase in costs in terms of repairs. State-owned enterprise "Science Centre": analysis of revenue execution " 53%" as of 31 October 2019. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Seven hundred and fifty-five thousand. lv.; Plan 468 thousand. lv.; cost implementation analysis of nearly 73%; 2 million Seven hundred and fifty-five thousand. lv. is the plan, the execution is 2 million. BGN, the cost of staff is 1 million. 177,000. lv.; performance is 73.7% for maintenance, costs are 773 thousand. BGN, which is 75,5% of the plan; for taxes were spent just over 16 thousand. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv.; overdue is about 660 thousand. BGN, to suppliers - 69 thousand BGN, to staff - 137 thousand BGN, at the National Revenue Agency, the overdue insurance contributions and taxes amount to 220 thousand. lv. As of 23 November 2018, the public undertakings and experienced stations in the newly established State-owned State-owned company. In the accounting year 2019 the requirements of the Agricultural Academy Act and the Rules of Procedure related to the financing of the Central Administration of the Academy and the Scientific Institutes and Centers are met. The management bodies of the Academy are the Chairman and the Board of Directors. By order of 28 June 2018, members of the Management Board were appointed on a proposal from the Chairman of the Agricultural Academy. With art. 23 of the State Budget Act is an established transfer of the Agricultural Academy through the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry of 25 million. 11,000. 500 leva. In accordance with art. 18, p. 5 of the Rules of the Agricultural Academy at its meeting on 18 April 2019. The Council of the Academy shall decide on the principle of the allocation of the transfer from the state budget to the Academy's structural units. On the basis of established principles, an internal transfer was assigned to each structural unit. Each meeting of the Management Board shall provide detailed information on the financial situation of the Academy and the implementation of the budget by structural units. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I can only supplement, perhaps, and that is why you will ask me that the adoption of new principles is currently being prepared for the allocation of the transfer under budget 2020 to the Structural Units of the Agricultural Academy, and this proposal is to be discussed next week and, I suppose, finalised within three weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u126	Thank you, Madam Secretary. A line? You have the floor, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! The painting is a little blacker than I imagined it would be. Because it turns out that the Agricultural Academy itself, i.e. the institutes, has obligations of nearly four and a half million. The State-owned enterprise with all the amounts collected, as far as I could track your response, is about a million and a half. You understand that whatever budget there is in 2020, these obligations remain and the next budget will be charged with their repayment. From the beginning, when you started the mandate, I asked a question: do you think that the allocation of the budget, as the Governing Council has accepted it from a mechanism, is fair? Because institutes that are strong, which have their own income, not only do they not receive any transfer or subsidy for their scientific activity, but they also seized income from them. I give an example of the Dobrudjan Agricultural Institute, which, at a cost of four and a half million, had to calculate 700,000. lv. of the Central Administration for Distribution. With such a distribution mechanism and strong institutes that have the capacity to implement a science policy, they will be melted down. One extremely serious question. In the State enterprise, salaries have not been paid in two thirds of the enterprises for at least half a year. There are four or five working structures from which income is seized and therefore this income, or this income goes to support structures that currently do not work. I would also like to draw attention to the request that the status of the State enterprise be reviewed. Because, as registered in the Commercial Register, this State-owned enterprise is a research centre where the State Fund.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This means that in 2020, the State-owned enterprise cannot apply for payments per unit of area or all other payments in the State Fund. For the same reason, the enterprise does not participate in the distribution of excise funds for fuels because the enterprise itself has obligations to the National Revenue Agency. So the painting is extremely heavy. I hope that your effort will be aimed at looking for opportunities for the budget provided for 2020 to be spent fairly and optimally, to have elements of support related to science to lead the development of the Academy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u128	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Hole, Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Professor Bachvarova, I can assure you that we will make efforts with regard to the fair distribution of the budget between the different structural units. I hope that in the debate to be held in the Governing Council, a much better decision will be taken than the one in force during the coming year. There should be no problem that the enterprise can be a beneficiary, but in view of the areas it uses, it is certainly not the only way to resolve the issue. This autonomy in terms of budgeting has been long desired, so ultimately it must also be management itself and the relevant heads of structural units to demonstrate their respective creativity and implement solutions, including marketing, to improve their situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u130	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for your participation. You have answered many questions today, many questions. We continue with questions to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev. The first question is again from you, Mrs. Bachvarova, about the procedure for selection of judges for the acquisition of scientific degrees and for the holding of academic positions in the Republic of Bulgaria. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! My question is related to the assessment of the Ministry of Education and Science regarding changes in the Law on the Development of the Academic Board. We know that these changes have been discussed for a long time. The changes were aimed at having greater control and the possibility of correction in procedures which led to unjustified solutions or problems which were then to be resolved in court. Minimum requirements have been adopted for candidates to acquire scientific degrees and to hold academic positions, and detailed rules have also been laid down for the selection of judges, which should be leading and basically for decision-making. My question to you is related to this: one year later, following the amendment of the Law and Rules, which came out last June, what is the number of successfully completed procedures, as well as those procedures that have been subject to review and sanction by the Academic Ethics Commission, which was established in the Law? Have there been any violations in the conduct of the procedures and, accordingly, what measures has the Ministry taken to correct these procedures? Does it have any effect at all on the involvement of this committee in the choice that has been made? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, with the amendments adopted in the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in May 2018, a new order was adopted to acquire scientific degrees and to hold academic positions. The freedom of higher schools and scientific organisations to determine themselves the need to disclose procedures and to determine the composition of the jury shall be granted. For the first time, mandatory minimum requirements were introduced for candidates for academic degrees and positions, order was introduced to establish plagiarism, which was missing until now, which is why such cases could not be identified and sanctioned. The main objective of the amendments made to the Law is to provide conditions for the objective, impartial and lawful application of the uniform national requirements to applicants for the acquisition of scientific degrees for the occupation of academic positions in higher schools and scientific organisations, and to establish a harmonious link between the achievements of candidates and an opportunity for their academic growth. The changes made have not affected the basic principle of academic autonomy of higher schools and scientific organisations. In September 2018, the Committee on Academic Ethics was established which, as an aid authority to the Minister, deals with signals related to violations in the conduct of the procedures for the award of scientific degrees or for the holding of academic posts. It consists of five members, one of whom is a lawyer. The members of the Committee on Academic Ethics are among the most prominent scientists in the country in the relevant scientific fields. In relation to the question referred, I provide the following information: Paragraph 43 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber sets out a period of six months in which higher schools and scientific organisations will bring their regulations into line with the requirements of the Law and the Rules for its Implementation. The report on the number of successfully completed procedures shall contain information on the acquired scientific titles and the academic positions employed after 1 November 2018. In higher schools the acquired degrees are a total of 917, of which 886 The occupied academic positions are a total of 672, as follows:........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In scientific organizations, the acquired scientific degrees are 117, of which Dr. The occupied academic positions are 159 in total as follows: After the establishment in September 2018, the Committee on Academic Ethics (Academic Ethics) has spoken in relation to 30 signals received. Most of them are in the order of art. 30, para. 2, p. 1 of the Law on the Development of the Academic Board regarding violations in the conduct of procedures. The decisions of the Committee on Academic Ethics are public and can be found on the website of the Ministry of Education and Science, entitled the Committee on Academic Ethics. We've pulled a summary of all the checks, I'm ready to hand it over to you. You asked a question about the evaluation. In particular, the changes were necessary and mandatory. The number of procedures is normal, and the level of petitioning is normal. In short, we can say that the system is functioning.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u134	Thank you, dear Minister. Line, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u135	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! I thank you for the answer, but despite your optimism that everything is within the normal range, the intensity does not seem to decrease. My question and the accent was related to the jury because of what I observe, which I see on the page of the announced contests, I am impressed that the jury includes colleagues who have nothing to do with the scientific specialty in which the competition is announced. At most, one person should be in the scientific specialty of the competition, which means that the leading one is to find the person who is comfortable with us. The professional direction is what determines who will be on the jury. I think that's a law pass. You may disprove me, but for example, when a jury is appointed, the text of the Law contains the speciality of inquiry and/or professional direction, and the Rules for Implementation of the Law states that the scientific jury is in the relevant scientific area of the Council of Ministers' Decree No 125 of 2002, where we have a professional direction. From now on you want, you have a procedure for associate professor or professor and inside this jury participate people who have absolutely no idea of what they need to review or what they should write in the opinions. For example, in the field of livestock, in the professional field of "Life" there are 20 majors that are fundamentally different and there is no way to motivate those who want to really objectively assess their work. That is why my question, appeal is: when the jury is formed, it is true that there is freedom academic, primary unit, Faculty Council, but is it still possible to assess on the basis of the information you have, do we really have touch with the scientific area in which it is defended, or where there is also career and academic development? Otherwise, the same convenient colleague may be a jury not in two or three consecutive, but in much more, especially if it is external, and it is in the materials that I have dealt with and are really public. It is probably a matter of much wider discussion, but I am personally worried about the quality of the reviews I read, especially in the scientific direction, which I follow professionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. A hole, Minister. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u137	I will just say that I agree in principle, but the level of specialization of knowledge is constantly increasing and not always enough scientists are available to participate in the specific specialty of the relevant scientific jury. You have given one example: if we set an example with a professional field of philosophy, it is one thing, but it is one thing to be a Japanese, it is another to be an Arabist, it has almost nothing to do with it. So these are minimum requirements, of course, higher schools and scientific organisations could complement them, with the Law and Rules open for changes. Let me give you the summary information as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u138	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Valchev is from the MPs Alexander Matsurev and Georgi Dinev on policies and reforms in the field of education. You have the floor, dear Matsurev, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Our question is about policies and reforms in the field of education. Since the beginning of your management mandate, a series of successful policies in the field of education have been undertaken and reforms have been carried out, which have been postponed for years. This is reported by many of the Bulgarian teachers, whom we as MPs from our region have met. In this regard, we have drawn up our current parliamentary question, which contains questions about ideas that you have publicly stated and are of serious interest to the teaching community throughout the country. Digitalization is one of the main tasks of this ministerial team, achieved with remarkable results in this direction. A huge part of the schools go to the electronic diary. Electronic charts are already in place. What are the next steps in this direction and do they relate to the digitalization of the learning process itself? You have repeatedly stated that enough young teachers should be provided. In this regard, what actions and policies do you foresee, so that able youths can focus on the teaching profession? We address these questions to you because we believe that they are important to the Bulgarian teachers and your answer will provide more clarity about the work of the Ministry on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u140	Thank you, dear Matsurev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Matsurev! When we talk about digitalization and electronization, several aspects affect us. One is the acquisition of digital skills, i.e. learning about information technology and digital skills. The second is training through information technology. And the third is an electronization of administrative work, as is the second question that you have asked about providing the system in the medium and long term with good pedagogical specialists. They are policies that do not start in this mandate and should be permanent and priority in the coming years, I would say decades. With regard to information technology training. In the new study programmes, digital creativity was much more embedded in the third grade. Digital competence, including not only digital creativity, but also digital citizenship, cybersecurity, digital media literacy, are involved in the various curricula. There is no doubt that we will live in an increasingly digital world. There is no doubt that today's generation of students who will be active in the labour market and in public life in 40 years and 50 years will live in a world with even larger digital transformations. The key word may be "algorithm" or "artic intellect." Artificial intelligence will actually be primarily algorithms, not so many machines that will be separate, but few or many students today need to have in-depth skills in the field of digital creativity, understanding algorithms to be adequate in tomorrow's life. It is very likely that in the coming decades the effective model of work will be a human-algorithm or a human-machine. Most likely, there will not be such a large percentage of places to be replaced entirely by machines and will require human interaction, which requires the understanding of today's students, or the opportunity to acquire basic skills with the ability to upgrade them to make them more suitable tomorrow in the labour market. When we talk about learning through information technology, it is also inevitable. Of course, it must be dosed, it must be effective. There are many studies that show that, especially in preschool age, children's access to screens should be limited, as they damage their development, their social-emotional competences. The higher the age, on the other hand, studies show that the more effective they learn through images and screens. And it happens inevitably, as I told you, in education systems. What did we do? We will be able to talk about a completed system of e-learning after maybe a year and a half when we implement the project "Educate tomorrow" in its main activities. This is the creation of an electronic platform with open educational resources. Currently there are such platforms with different resources: movies, videos, lessons, but they are paid. We'll pay the teachers, first of all, to train for their development, second of all, to develop them. We hope in one period, one horizon of three or four years to have enough educational resources to allow learning through them. We finance the construction of wi-fi in all schools, but these are not just routers, these are networks that cover all rooms, and have the appropriate firewalls. We will also invest in electronic identification, which will allow students only to be used for useful educational content. As of 2017, we have supported the functional programme "Information and communication technologies" in the schools to expand the opportunities for front learning. This is most often via electronic boards or computer designers, which allows at least one device to implement electronic training. For the next year, there are more than 20 million of them, I still cannot say exactly how much, whether it will be 23 or 24, but within this range, which will be for the renovation of school offices and a significant part of them will be connected. This update will be related to information technology and the lead will be a change in training methods. The fact is that we have a problem, a challenge with motivating interest in learning students where there are built STEM centers. These are related offices in mathematics and natural sciences that allow for better e-learning. We have better results and more interest in learning students. As for the electronization of administrative activity, you mentioned, nearly 1800 schools this year were financed for buying rights for electronic diaries. I guess in the coming years, even more of the administrative work will be electronized, and however it may be, it at least facilitates the exchange of information between information systems. We therefore need to upgrade, modernise the national information system so that we have a full information base in the system that is also subject to the principle of lightening administrative work. We've started several programs. One of them is an IT career starter and students from other professional fields, outside of information technology, are trained to acquire a professional qualification of an applied programmer in order to expand the base by IT specialists. Attempt to open the system is to train more IT professors. We started the program "IT" the business teaches "IT business" people from the IT business enter the school, respectively teachers and students go to the IT companies. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you. Perhaps in the second part I will address the issue of securing the system with teachers.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u142	Thank you, dear Minister. A line? Mr. Matsurev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! I will use my right to a reply, only and only to give Mr. Minister the opportunity to complete his reply, because I think it is extremely important for each of us, for our teachers, students and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u144	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u145	Thank you. With regard to securing the system with pedagogical specialists, the challenge is triple. On the one hand, to have enough teachers in the coming years. On the other hand, to motivate good students to become teachers. On the third hand, to have enough and good teachers in all, in the remotest and smallest schools and kindergartens. Raising wages is mandatory, but it is not the only necessary condition. It happens and there are results with regard to the return to the teaching profession, mainly of people who have graduated from pedagogical education. Also, the search for Master's degree programmes and postgraduate qualification for the acquisition of professional qualification. It is important to attract the best students in pedagogical education. The best educational systems are those in which the best students at the exit from high school become teachers. So for next year, we are considering and we have the funds currently set out in the draft budget to grant additional scholarships to the students with the 10 percent highest educational results of the exam, to include in an education for the acquisition of pedagogical skills, as well as those who have taken a math, chemistry or physics exam. The most important problem with teachers is traditional in terms of information technology, English language. But now the biggest problem with teachers of mathematics, physics, third place is probably chemistry. We're also missing 700.800 resource teachers. That's why we started the Programme "Motivated Teachers". She has three modules. One is to prepare teachers for teaching in the most difficult schools, these are in separate neighborhoods, in villages where children are 100% from vulnerable groups. Acquisition of additional pedagogical qualifications. In small schools it is necessary to reconcile different subjects, as teachers are few and need to fill their norm. Also, in order to ensure resource support in the smallest and remote villages, sometimes it is not enough for a resource teacher to go to the resource center, we encourage the training, and next year it will be even more for the acquisition of a special pedagogic for resource teachers, so that every day those working with the child will have this qualification. We also finance aftergraduate education and Master's degree programmes for the acquisition of professional qualifications by specialists in other professions, for example, a person who has graduated from Engineering Sciences, to become a teacher in physics and mathematics, after obtaining such a qualification. It is also important to have, as I told you, in the smallest and remote schools and kindergartens good teachers, because early access to education is a function of real access to teachers. Therefore, the funding and provision of more funds to schools and kindergartens, which are smaller and more remote, was differentiated. These are part of the measures. We work with the pedagogical faculties, we'll have a program there, too. They need to prepare children for the skill of the 21st century, introduce the competent approach, change their way of teaching. In general, we stimulate innovation in teaching and education. This has to become a dominant culture, something that is also very important. It's also one of the teachers' motivators. They should feel less part of the system that controls them for compliance and more freedom to be encouraged to be creative so as to motivate students' interest in learning. This is the changing role of the teacher in the 21st century and to a greater extent to make students associate knowledge and skills from different areas. This is what we do under innovation projects. I can't list all the things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-15.u146	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for participating in parliamentary control today. The next regular plenary session of 9:00 p.m., 20 November 2019 We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
