ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Communication: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria has, by its order, authorised the dispatch of a military ship with its statutory arms and crew, soldiers for participation in the US-Ukrainian exercise between 29 June and 13 July 2019, including the transition days, in the area of the town of Odessa, the territorial sea and the adjacent zone of Ukraine. The notification was received on 20 March 2019. No 903-09-14 and granted to the Defence Committee. Colleagues, we continue with: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR PROTECTING THE TRADE secret. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2019, was adopted at the first vote on 6 February 2019. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! On 2 January 2019, submitted by the Council of Ministers on the first vote on 6 February 2019. ?????????????????????????????????????????? The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u3	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which the Commission supports. Vote 131 MPs: 129, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u4	"Chapter 1" - General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u5	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One, supported by the Commission. They voted 128 MPs, for 128, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u6	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 1: "Instruction" Art. 1. This law lays down the terms and conditions for the protection from unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure of business secrets carried out on a judicial basis in civil proceedings.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Are there any speeches? I won't. I will put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the text of Article 2. 1. Please vote. They voted 121 MPs: 121, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u8	Article 2 "Contributions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2, as in para. 1, t. 2 and 4 and para. 2, p. 3 the word "supplied" is replaced by "Bulgarian" (Bulgarian).
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u9	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I will put the text of the importer to the vote for art. 2 with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 123 MPs: for 123, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u10	"Chapter 2": Acquisition, use and disclosure of business secrets. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two. "Department I" "Definitions." The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u11	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I will put two texts to the vote. The first is the importer for the name of Chapter Two, the second is the importer for the name of Section I. Please vote. 120 MPs voted: 120, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u12	Article 3 "Definition'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 3, as in t. 1 words are replaced by........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u13	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 3 with the editorial amendment proposed by the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u14	Article 4 supplier of commercial secrecy. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u15	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 4. Vote 117 MPs: 116, against no, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u16	Article 5 "Intruder." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u17	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I will put the text of the importer to the vote for art. 5. Please vote. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u18	Article 6 "Instruction of infringement'. The Commission shall support the importer's test for art. 6 all over the word "illegally" is replaced by "indigenously."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u19	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 6 with the editorial amendment proposed by the Commission. They voted 112 MPs: 112, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u20	Section II - Acquisition, use and disclosure of business secrets. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. Article 7 "Significant acquisition, use and disclosure of business secrets'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 7, as in para. 1, t. 3 words under the law are replaced by the Bulgarian legislation and in para. 2 the word "supplied" is replaced by "Bulgarian" (Bulgarian).
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u21	Statements? I won't. I will put two texts to the vote. The first one is the importer for the name of Section II, and the second one is the importer for art. 7, with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u22	Article 8 "Indeterminate acquisition, use and disclosure of business secrets'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 8. ?Indeed acquisition, use and disclosure of commercial secrecy Art. 8. (1) The acquisition of a business secret without the consent of its owner shall be considered unlawful where it is carried out by: 1. unauthorised access, embezzlement or copying of documents, items, materials, substances or electronic documents under which regular control is exercised by the holder of the business secret and contain commercial secrecy or information from which the secret can be extracted; 2. other behaviour which contradicts the conscientious commercial practice within the meaning of the Law on Protection of Competition. (2) The use or disclosure of commercial secrecy without the consent of its owner shall be considered unlawful when committed by a person who is: 1. acquire improperly the business secret, or 2. a breach of a confidentiality agreement or any other obligation not to disclose commercial secrecy, or 3. violated the obligation to limit the use of commercial secrecy. (3) The acquisition, use or disclosure of commercial secrecy shall be considered unlawful where, at the time of the acquisition, use or disclosure, the person knew or should have known that commercial secrecy was obtained directly or indirectly by another person who used or disclosed it unlawfully. (4) The production, supply or placing on the market of goods shall be regarded as having been the subject of an infringement, as well as the import, export or storage of goods for such purposes, as having known or in the light of the circumstances, that commercial secrecy has been unlawfully used within the meaning of para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u23	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 8. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u24	Article 9 "Exhibitions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 9, as in the text before t. 1 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied', and "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'. 3 and 4 the word "supplier" is replaced by "Bulgarian" (Bulgarian).
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u25	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 9 with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u26	"Chapter 3" Production for the protection of commercial secrecy. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three. Section I "General provisions'. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u27	Statements? I won't. I put two texts to the vote: the first is the importer for the name of Chapter Three, and the second is the importer for the name of Section I. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u28	Article 10 "Current claim'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10: Law of the Court of Justice of the Art. 10. (1) The holder of a business secret shall have the right to bring an action before the court against any violator of commercial secrecy to establish the unlawful acquisition, use or disclosure of commercial secrecy and to: 1. award of compensation for the damages suffered and the lost benefits; 2. suspension or prohibition of the use or disclosure of commercial secrecy; 3. a prohibition on the production, marketing, placing on the market or use of the goods, subject to infringement, import or export, as well as the storage of those goods, for those purposes; 4. destruction of purposes or of part of documents, items, materials, substances or electronic documents containing or carrying commercial secrecy, or, where appropriate, their transmission to the plaintiff; 5. a prohibition on the supply or provision of services which are significantly affected by commercial secrets which are unlawfully acquired, used or disclosed. (2) At the same time as the claims under para. 1 The applicant may request from the court and impose on the goods or services subject to infringement of one or more of the measures under art. 20, para. 3. (3) The court may, at the request of the plaintiff, oblige the defendant or a third party by order to provide relevant information to resolve the case, such as: 1. the name, address, respective name, registered office and address of the management of the producers, distributors, suppliers and other persons who have held the goods under the infringement, as well as of the retailers and retailers for which they were intended; 2. data on the quantities produced, delivered, received or ordered, as well as the revenues received from the goods under the infringement, respectively data on the supply or provision of the services and their revenues; 3. documents or parts thereof, items, materials, substances or electronic documents or parts thereof containing or bearing commercial secrecy; 4. the person from whom they received the business secret; 5. the persons to whom they have revealed the trade secret. (4) The order shall specify a time limit within which the party must fulfil its obligation to provide complete, accurate, reliable and non-altering information.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u29	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 10. Vote 95 MPs: 93 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u30	Article 11 "Industrial time-limit'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 11: supposed period Art. 11. (1) The right of the proprietor of commercial secrecy shall be repaid by the end of 5 years of the infringement. (2) The right to a claim under art. 15, para. 4 and under art. 20, para. 4 of the defendant and of each third party concerned shall be repaid with the expiry of a period of one year from the entry into force of the judicial act from which the legal interest is derived. (3) For the suspension and interruption of the limitation period shall apply art. 115 and 116 of the Debts and Contracts Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u31	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 11. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Go on, dear Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u32	The Commission therefore considers that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 12: "Privacy measures in the judicial proceedings Art. 12. (1) In any case, the parties and any other person concerned, including witnesses, may request the court to determine information in the case as confidential because it contains commercial secrecy or alleged commercial secrecy. (2) The request under para. 1 must be duly justified. (3) In cases where the court determines a given information under para. 1 for confidential, the court may, by the same definition, impose the following special measures to preserve its confidential nature by: 1. limit, in full or in part, access to a document submitted in the case, which contains a commercial secret or which is alleged to contain commercial secrecy by granting access to the document only to certain persons; 2. limit access to court hearings as well as to the relevant records or protocols by ordering the examination of the case or the conduct of only certain actions to take place in the context of closed doors; 3. draw up a version of a judicial act for persons deprived of access to commercial secrecy with deleted commercial secrecy. (4) The number of persons granted access to confidential information on commercial secrecy shall not exceed what is necessary to ensure the right of defence of the parties in the process. It shall not be restricted to the access to information of the parties to the case and of their procedural representatives. (5) In determining the measure concerned, the court shall take into account the need to ensure the right to a fair trial and effectiveness of the measure, respect for the legitimate interests of the parties and, where appropriate, the third parties, and the likelihood of harm being caused to them by the measure imposed. (6) The definition under para. 3 shall be appealed in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 3. 274. "278 of the Civil Procedure Code. (7) The parties, their lawyers or other procedural representatives, the judicial officers, witnesses, property persons and all other persons involved in legal proceedings under this law or having access to documents forming part of such proceedings shall be obliged to keep the information classified as confidential under para. 1 and 3, which has become known to them as a result of this participation or access. (8) The use or disclosure of information which constitutes commercial secrecy or alleged commercial secrecy shall also be prohibited after the completion of the judicial proceedings, unless: 1. the court found, by an act of entry into force, that the information alleged to contain commercial secrecy does not comply with the requirements for commercial secrecy laid down in that law; 2. information protected as a trade secret becomes generally known and accessible to persons from the general public who normally use this type of information. (9) The persons under para. 7 shall be responsible under this law for the use or disclosure of information which contains a business secret or alleged business secret designated as confidential under para. 1 and 3............................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u33	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 12, proposed by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u34	?????? 13? Conviction?? The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u35	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 13. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u36	"Department II" "Precise protection measures." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14, as in para. 1, t. 4 the words "indemnified' shall be replaced by "indemnified'.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u37	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Section II and the text of the importer as art. 14 with the editorial amendment proposed by the Commission. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u38	The conditions for the admission of the claim. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15 as the title is amended as follows: 2, p. 6 the word "parties" is replaced by "persons" and in para. 5 the words...... are deleted...................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u39	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 15 with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u40	The terms and conditions for the cancellation of the guarantee. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16: "Accession of collateral" Art. 16. The security may be revoked at the request of: 1. the defendant or the court of its own motion if no evidence of the application under art. 10 within one month of the imposition of the safeguard measures; 2. the defendant, where the information on which precautionary measures have been imposed has ceased to comply with the requirements laid down in that law for commercial secrecy for reasons not due to the defendant.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u41	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of Article 2. 16. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u42	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 17: "Application of the Civil Procedure Code Art. 17. The admission, imposition and revocation of the precautionary measures shall be carried out in accordance with art. Art. 389 - 403 of the Civil Procedure Code, with the exception of Art. 398, para. Second sentence, first, insofar as this law does not provide otherwise.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u43	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 17. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u44	"Department III" "Certificate for damages". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u45	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of Section III. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u46	? 18?? damages for damages?? an importer's text????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? Proposal by the National Representative Christian Mitev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 18: ? damages for damages?? Art. 18. (1) The intruder shall be obliged to compensate the holder of a business secret for any damage suffered and forgone benefits which are a direct and immediate consequence of the unlawful acquisition, use or disclosure of a business secret. The compensation is due where the intruder knew or should have known in those circumstances that he was involved in an unlawful acquisition, use or disclosure of commercial secrecy. (2) The employees and workers shall be responsible for the damage caused by the unlawful acquisition, use or disclosure of their employer's business secrets, at the rate of no more than three times the amount of the wage agreed when they did not act intentionally.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u47	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 18. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u48	Article 19 "Determining of the compensation' is the text of the importer. There is a proposal from the National Representative Christian Mitev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 19: "Determining the compensation Art. 19. (1) In determining the amount of compensation, the court shall take into account all circumstances relating to the unlawful acquisition, use or disclosure of commercial secrecy, such as: 1. damage, including the missed benefits which have occurred to the holder of a business secret; 2. the revenue received from the intruder as a result of the unlawful acquisition, use or disclosure of the business secret; 3. the non-material damage suffered by the holder of commercial secrecy, where applicable. (2) Where the action is justified but does not have sufficient data on its size, the court shall award compensation which shall be no less than the amount of remuneration which would have been due if the violator had requested permission to use the commercial secret as well as the costs incurred by the holder of the commercial secret, including the costs of identification and investigation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u49	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of Article 2. 19. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u50	"Section IV.. Court The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section IV.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u51	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of Section IV. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u52	Article 20. supposed to be an importer's version of the case. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 20: supposed to be in the case Art. 20. (1) By the judgment in the case, the court shall establish the unlawful acquisition, use or disclosure of commercial secrecy and may, in accordance with the applicant's request and the specific circumstances, impose the following measures in respect of the infringer: 1. suspension or prohibition of the use or disclosure of commercial secrecy; 2. a prohibition on the production, marketing, placing on the market or use of the goods, subject to infringement, import or export, as well as the storage of the goods for those purposes; 3. destruction of purposes or of part of documents, items, materials, substances or electronic documents containing or bearing commercial secrecy or, where appropriate, their transmission to the plaintiff; 4. a prohibition on the supply or provision of services which are significantly affected by commercial secrets which are unlawfully acquired, used or disclosed. (2) The Court may impose the measures under para. 1, t. 1, 2 and 4 for a specified period sufficient to remove any commercial or economic advantages that the violator has received from the unlawful acquisition, use or disclosure of commercial secrecy. (3) At the request of the applicant, the court may also impose one or more of the following measures in respect of the goods or services subject to the infringement: 1. withdrawal of the goods from the market or at the request of the holder of a business secret, the transmission of the goods to non-profit legal entities for public benefit activities; 2. the removal of those characteristics of the goods or services in respect of which an infringement has been detected; 3. destruction of the goods or, where appropriate, their withdrawal from the market, provided that the withdrawal does not affect the protection of commercial secrecy. (4) Where an action under this law is found to be unfounded, and that the applicant has requested the formation of the proceedings in a misguided or abusive manner, the court may, at the request of the defendant, sentence at the same time or separately: 1. compensation for the damage suffered by the defendant; 2. dissemination of information on the decision under the conditions of art. 24. (5) The request under para. 4 shall be dealt with in the same or in separate proceedings.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u53	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 20. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u54	Article 21 "Determining of the measures' is an importer's text. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 21: "Determining the measures Art. 21. (1) In determining the type of measures in respect of the intruder and the goods or services, the court shall, in relation to the particular case, take into account the following circumstances: 1. the value or other specific characteristics of the commercial secret; 2. the measures taken to protect commercial secrecy; 3. the conduct of the intruder in the acquisition, use or disclosure of commercial secrecy; 4. the consequences of the unlawful use or disclosure of commercial secrecy; 5. the legitimate interests of the parties and the consequences of the measures with regard to the parties; 6. the legitimate interests of third parties; 7. the public interest; 8. the protection of fundamental rights. (2) The costs of implementing the measures under art. 20, para. 1, t. 3 and para. 3 shall be at the expense of the intruder, unless the court considers that there are no specific grounds for doing so. The costs shall be paid by the intruder regardless of the compensation for damages. (3) Reasons within the meaning of para. 2 are available where the assumption of the costs by the intruder exceeds what is necessary to achieve the objective. In this case, the costs of implementing the measures shall be borne by the applicant.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u55	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of Article 2. 21. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u56	Article 22 "Acquittal of measures'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 22, like the words. 1 and 2' are replaced by.......................................................................................................... One, two and four.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u57	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 22 with the editorial amendment proposed by the Commission. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u58	Article 23 "Support of compensation without the imposition of measures' is a text of an importer. There is a proposal from the National Representative Christian Mitev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 23: Paid for compensation without any measures Art. 23. (1) After the unlawful use or disclosure of commercial secrecy has been established, at the request of the defendant, the court may sentence him to pay monetary compensation without imposing the measures under art. 20, para. 1 if there are both the following conditions: 1. at the time of the use or disclosure of the commercial secret, the defendant did not know or should have known that the commercial secret was obtained from another person who used or disclosed it illegally and after the knowledge of that fact continued to use it; 2. the imposition of measures would cause disproportionate damage to the defendant; 3. The monetary compensation for the damage suffered by the holder of commercial secrecy is fair. (2) The amount of the compensation under para. 1 imposed instead of the measures under art. 20, para. 1, t. 1, 2 and 4 may not exceed the amount of remuneration that would have been due if the violator had requested permission to use commercial secrecy for a period for which the use of commercial secrecy could have been prohibited.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u59	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 23. They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u60	Article 24 "Publishing of the judgment The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 24: Publishing of the judgment Art. 24. (1) At the request of the applicant, the court may order the defendant to disclose, at his own expense and in an appropriate manner, information on the decision in the case, as well as its publication in part or in whole, of commercial information deleted. The Court of Justice shall rule on the request taking into account: 1. the value of the commercial secret; 2. the conduct of the intruder in the acquisition, use or disclosure of the commercial secret; 3. the legal consequences of the unlawful use or disclosure of commercial secrecy; 4. the likelihood of the intruder continuing the misuse or disclosure of commercial secrecy; 5. the possible disclosure of the identity of the intruder and the damage that can be caused to his personal life and his good name. (2) When the decision is given under para. 1 The court shall also take into account whether the information concerning the intruder allows an identification of a natural person and, if so, whether the publication of such information would be justified in view of the possible harm that this measure may cause to the individual's life and reputation. (3) The judgment of the court under para. 1 shall be implemented in accordance with Article 1. 26 and subject to the confidential nature of the commercial secrecy determined by the order of art. 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are voting in the version of the text of the importer of art. 24, proposed by the Commission. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u62	Section V "Execution of the measures imposed'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section V.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u63	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are voting on the name of Section V proposed by the Commission. Vote 69 MPs: for 69, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u64	The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 25, as in para. 4 and 6 the words "the previous' shall be replaced by "al'. Two and three.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u65	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are going to vote on the text of art. 25 with the Commission's proposal to replace the text in para. 4 and 6, and the words "the previous' shall be replaced by "the previous'. Two and three. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u66	The Commission proposes to create a new art. 26: "Personal data protection" Art. 26. The processing of personal data shall be carried out in compliance with the requirements for the protection of personal data.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u67	Are there any speeches on the proposal to create a new art. 26? I can't see. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new art. 26. 70 MPs voted: 70, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u68	supplied application of the Civil Procedure Code. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 26, which becomes Art. 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u69	Are there any speeches on the Commission's proposal? There are no speeches. We vote on the Commission proposal to support the text of the importer for art. 26, which becomes Art. 27. 70 MPs voted: 70, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u70	'Additional provision.' The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u71	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are voting on the name of the section on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u72	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, the word "the provisions' shall be replaced by "the provisions'.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u73	Are there any speeches on the proposal for § 1? There are no speeches. We are voting on the text of the importer for § 1 as the word "the provisions" has been replaced by "the pleadings" on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u74	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of the division:
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u75	Thank you. Are there any statements on the name of the division? I can't see. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for the name of the "Concluding provisions'. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u76	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u77	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are voting on the proposal of the importer for the text of § 2, supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u78	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, i.e. 2 the word "new' is deleted;
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u79	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We shall vote on the text of § 3 on a proposal from the Commission, and in point 2, the word "new' shall be deleted. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The proposal for a text of § 3 is adopted, and thus the full text of the Law on the Protection of Commercial Secrets at second reading. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2019, was adopted at the first vote on 6 February 2019. Moving on to the next point of today's program: HEARING THE MINISTER OF TEENAGING AND SPORTS ON THE BOARD. 113 OF THE RULES ON THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE POLICY OF THE MINISTRY OF YOUTH AND SPORTS IN THE PROGRAM FOR THE FINANCIAL HELPING OF THE WORKS OF HOMES OF INTERNATIONAL SPORTS SITUATIONS OF THE TERRITORY OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. We'll start the hearing with the proposal. You have the floor, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u80	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! With the system of sport for excellence, the state financially supports not only the training and competition activities of the federations, but also the conduct of households of international sports competitions in Bulgaria. Thanks to the state policy in this direction, in recent years we have had the opportunity to host major championships such as the men's volleyball World Championship in 2018, the European Men's Volleyball Championship in 2015, the tennis tournament "Sofia Open," the start of the World Cup in ski alpine disciplines, which is traditionally held in Bulgaria, and many others. Many world sports stars visited Bulgaria and heard praises for our country, including from the mouths of the President of the International Olympic Committee Mr. Thomas Bach, and on his visit to Bulgaria in September 2018 we heard the words: "What you are doing is amazing! Currently, three world championships in Olympic sports are held in Bulgaria, which I think is an Olympic record. Spoken by one of the highest-ranking people in the world's sport, it really means a lot. During Thomas Bach's visit, he talked about Bulgaria's possible bid to host the youth Olympic Winter Games, and in recent months one of the most discussed topics is the possible common application.. together with Serbia, Romania and Greece, for the European and World Football Championship. These are the big goals and projects for our country. It is understandable that the public interest in such topics should be high. Behind these sports competitions is a public financial resource and a good sports infrastructure is needed, in which the state also invests a lot of money in recent years. In 2017, it was announced from the National Assembly's stands that the governments of GERB invested more than 350 million. lv. in sports infrastructure, and I am even sure that if summarized, it will reach 400 million in 2018. Many times we have heard Minister Kralev talk about reforming the financing of sport for excellence on the principle of clearly formulated criteria and achieved results. Such a reform has also been carried out with regard to financing and assisting households in international competitions. I therefore think that today's hearing of the Minister for Youth and Sports will be useful to both the MPs and the general public in order to understand what are the principles and policy of the Ministry of Youth and Sports for the financial support of households in the country, how much the State spends on how these competitions fit into the state policy for the development of sport for excellence and sport for everyone, for the renewal of sports infrastructure, whether there are preferred sports and types of competitions, what are the direct benefits of them for sport and for our country, because it is normal to expect such when public funds are spent. And last but not least, I hope we can find out more about the future plans of the Ministry of Youth and Sports with regard to households and which competitions we can expect in this and in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u81	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Mr. Secretary, come in. You have the opportunity to make an exhibition on the subject of the hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u82	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Apostolov, as you mentioned in your speech, since 2004 the Ministry of Youth and Sport has been conducting a reform in financing both sport for excellence and sport for everyone. The main principle of these reforms is funding according to the results. Such a principle has also been introduced with regard to the financial assistance of households to international sports competitions. The Programme for financial support for the activities of hosting international competitions in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria has been introduced in the current form since October 2014. At the beginning of my first term as Minister of Youth and Sports, and in subsequent years it has been updated with small changes. Prior to that, international competitions were financed under the Ministry's ordinance, which required the presentation of a set of documents. With the introduction of a program we regulate competitions that can apply for support. These are competitions of the highest rank of the world, European championships, Olympic and Neolympic sports, world and European cups and world leagues for Olympic sports and quota qualifications for the Olympic Games. There are also quite high requirements for projects, which include advertising and coverage of the event in national and international terms. A much higher level of accountability of spending funds has been introduced. Our policy is to reduce the number of supported financial households, but instead of being of high rank and bearing positives for sport and for our country. Overall, households of international competitions, sports, where we have successes, medals and young and promising contestants, and those that bring huge international response and advertising to Bulgaria. There is a direct link between sport and the development of tourism. Through investments related to the conduct of major sporting events and competitions, the country acquires serious potential to boost tourism development, which in the long term will contribute to the economic growth of the regions. The advertising effect for our country by broadcasting sports events from television channels of dozens of countries is of great importance for the development of tourism. Many of these sports also have a strong social effect because they are practiced widely by children and young people. In Olympic sports are particularly important competitions that have a qualification status for the Olympic Games, because this increases the opportunities for winning allowances by athletes. Overall, in the case of financial support to households, we follow the criteria that we have set for determining the five groups of federations that receive funding under the sport development programmes for excellence and for Olympic training. There are also a sixth group of sports whose households support financially, mainly international competitions for federations, which receive funding for their activities by the Ministry of Youth and Sports under sports programmes for all and sport for people with disabilities. According to the species we have divided households, which we finance in traditional ones, which create a lasting audience, validate Bulgaria in the international sports calendar and world and European championships, which are episodes. An example of our traditional household is the Art Gymnastics World Cup, which is held every year in Sofia. A total of four world cups are held within the season and Bulgaria hosts one of them. World cups in alpine ski disciplines are also such types of households. This year Bulgaria hosted a start of the World Cup in the Alpine skis for the sixth time in the last 10 years. Bansko will host World Cup circles and over the next two years in 2020 in women and in 2021 in men. Such a traditional competition became the ATP tennis tournament Sofia Open, which was held this year for the fourth time in Bulgaria. Other examples are the world's bowls of jumping obstacles in horse sports for different ages, European bowls in judo, and some of these races also bring points for ranking the Olympics, the world's bowls in gymnastics again at different ages, world cups in fencing, European cups in badminton, and they bring points in the rankings of the Olympic Games. Examples of the second type of households are the World Volleyball Championship for Men, which took place in Bulgaria in 2018, the World Championship for Art Gymnastics and the World Championship for Men and Women, which took place in the same year, and this month we held the World Championship for Men and Women in Arena Armeec. For a long time, many of the sports federations have viewed hosting an international competition financially supported by the Ministry as a way to finance their activities. Due to the non-high reporting requirements, there is funding for households around which there are reasonable doubts about improperly spent funds. For example, in recent years there have been two competitions organized by the Bulgarian Chess Federation, led by Silvio Danailov in the middle of 2014, in Plovdiv and Albena and respectively assisted by the Ministry, for which we have found wrong spending. At the beginning of this year, the Sofia City Court ruled on the case which we have brought against the Federation, led by Silvio Danailov, and ruled that 684 thousand were wrongly spent. BGN 540. for these races. As is known, due to checks by the State Financial Inspection Agency with the Inspectorate of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, illegal funds were found to be spent by the Bulgarian Chess Federation of 2 million. lv. in the period 2011-2014, as a result of which the renewal of their licence was refused. The claims on which the Sofia City Court ruled concern the amounts paid by the Ministry on two contracts since 2014. The Ministry has secured its claim by imposing a ban on the property of this association located in Sofia. Currently, a license to carry out sports activities holds the Bulgarian Chess Federation, led by Mr. Toshev. Another problem that we have reported for the period before 2014 is the spill-over of financial resources, without taking into account a particular result. The principle of financing any household requested by a licensed federation leads to inefficient use of public money for sport and sometimes doubts about hidden motives in this funding. The total financial support period for households that we have set in recent years is around 5 million. lv. In some years, of course, it is higher depending on the specifics of the competitions, the specific year, and the additional funds are granted by a decree of the Council of Ministers. This is the example of the 2018 men's volleyball World Championship. The Commission therefore concludes that there is no need for State aid to distort competition by favouring certain undertakings or the production of certain goods. Eight hundred and £400. was granted by a decree of the Council of Ministers. The fee was paid in various large contributions within three years of 2016 and 2018. Accordingly, in those years, the budget which the Ministry has allocated to the households' financial support federations has increased by these amounts. Specifically for recent years: for 2019 the budget of households is currently 5 million. Eight hundred and BGN 520, with nearly one million of this amount being fees for competitions in 2020 and 2021, which are being paid now. For 2018, the budget was 8 million. 507 thousand. BGN 455, including part of the fee for the World Volleyball Championship and financing of a motorcycle competition granted by the Council of Ministers. For 2017 we have 9 million. Eight hundred and 715 BGN, including the most significant part of the fee for the World Volleyball Championship in 2018, namely 5 million. 400,000. lv. In the years prior to 2015, the budget for financial assistance to households varied between 5 and 14 million difference in the number of international competitions financed. In 2019, the Ministry of Youth and Sports financed 17 competitions, in 2018, 20 in 2018 and 36 in 2008, for example, in 2010. '37. Our idea is to finance fewer but more important competitions. While at the moment, 10% of the total household budget of households is allocated to federal households that do not fall within the first three groups of the ranking of sports, in the years back the percentages reach 45%. For example, financially assisted households have been several times the World Cup in Aesthetic and Group Gymnastics, World Cup in Aerobic Gymnastics, World Woodball Championship, European Softball Championship in Mixed Teams, World Cup in Hunting Fish from the Coast and others. I would like to point out that I do not deny the right to develop these sports, as well as the opportunities for international competitions in Bulgaria, but I do not think that this should be done with public funds because the effect of them for the Bulgarian sport and our country is zero. As Mr. Apostolov rightly pointed out, when public funds are invested, results should be sought. The results of the households held in recent years, financially supported by the state, can be sought in several directions for advertising for our country, an additional boost for tourism; providing a better opportunity for Bulgarian contestants for medals and prizes, especially for winning allowances for the Olympic Games; prestige and better positions for Bulgarian sports federations in their international bodies and the so-called social effect, children and young people who are keen on sports because they have touched their idols. I will give an example of the latest traditional for Bulgaria.... that of the World Cup in Alpine skiing in Bansko this year and the tennis tournament "Sofia Open". The result of the World Ski Cup in Bansko is really impressive 50 TV stations have directly broadcast the competitions. Among them are: Eurosport Asia, Eurosport Europe, TVs in Italy, Austria, Germany, the United States of America. Another 50 television stations have broadcast them on tape because of the time difference, with the guaranteed audience we have achieved at least 120 million viewers. Mr. Apostolov quotes Thomas Bach's words, and I will quote the seven-time winner of the World Ski Cup Marcel Hirsher after the World Cup in Bansko: "Impressive work of the organizers. Bansko is a very good resort, better than some in Austria. You understand that the words spoken by the world's most popular and most up-to-date skier in the last ten years, what advertising effect they have for Bulgaria, how much economic revenue we will then make by tourists just because of his opinion. Today, the tennis tournament is held by more than 45 thousand live viewers in Arena Armeec and has reached 280 million international audiences. This was the strongest edition so far of the four players from the top 20 participated. Two more out of the top 30. Over 2,000 were just Greek tennis fans who came to watch their best tennis player Titzipass. Huge efforts are made by the Greek Ministry of Sports in order to be able to negotiate a similar tournament in Athens. Unfortunately for them, this can become very difficult because there are no free dates in the ATP calendar. We received very good feedback from all participants about both the organization and the auditorium and the audience. A large part of them declared their participation in the following year. For now, I will stop with the examples of the results so far and am ready to answer your questions about the policy of the Ministry of Youth and Sports for financial assistance to households. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u83	Thank you, Minister, thank you for your information and willingness to answer the questions. That's exactly what the procedure is for. We move on to the first round of questions from parliamentary groups. The first question is from GERB's parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Valev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, it has become clear from the policy that you presented that the funds that the state allocates to finance international competitions in Bulgaria are being spent much more effectively. Indeed, in recent years, championships have been held in our country with a very wide international response and this is a joy to any sports lover. My question to you is: what else can we expect in the coming years and more precisely from these sports that we expect to win a quota for the Tokyo 2020 Olympics? There's only a year and a half left until the Olympics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u85	Thank you, Mr. Valev. Here you are, Minister, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u86	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Valev! I have already examined in more detail two of the households that we organized this year - the Men's Skiing World Cup in Bansko and the ATP Tournament Sofia Open 250. About a week and a half ago in Sofia was held the biggest competition of the year in the world of shortreka "The World Championship for Men and Women," which we host for the first time. This is the winter sport in which the state actually has the most international successes, the most Olympic medals thanks to Evgenia Radanova, who was my predecessor as Minister of Youth and Sports. We have a talented young generation at the moment, like Katherine Manoilova, who won an Olympic medal from the Winter Youth Olympics. This is exactly what the World Championship was like as a rehearsal for us, given our desire to run for host, Sofia to run for the Youth Olympic Winter Games in 2024. The National Sports Base had purchased a new winter ice rink, which helped to cool down the Arena Armeec, and from now on we will have the opportunity to conduct a number of competitions in this hall and in shorts, and in skating and figure skating, ice hockey. More than ten Olympic champions brought Bulgaria into this championship the reviews for the organization are very good. The Vice President of the International Skating Union Tron Espelli said after the championship that Bulgaria has presented itself in the best light as the organizer of a household of the highest rank in the Shortreca and believes that quite calmly we could cope with the huge challenge of hosting the winter youth Olympics. This is a very important reference, bearing in mind that the battle to win this household a household of winter youth games, I believe it will be key for the subsequent development of the economy of Sofia and the region. Of the traditional competitions held each year, in April we will accept the World Cup in rhythmic gymnastics. For the first time in Plovdiv there will be a World rowing Cup. We have closed the competition year of 2018 with the World rowing championship. Now the season opens in Plovdiv with a world cup. So Plovdiv has established himself in recent years as one of the world's centres of rowing sports. The point is that there is, of course, a second crest canal in order to preserve our city's position as a world center for such competitions. In June we have a World Cup for jumping in horse sport, and in August we will have a World Cup for men and women at table tennis. As you know, in recent years we have paid very much attention to sports for young people and we are also financing households in these age groups. In this year we support the European Championship for men and women up to 23 years of fencing, the European Championship for girls up to 19 years of handball, the European Championship for women up to 16 years of basketball, the European Boxing Championship for young people and girls, the European Championship for girls up to 17 years of age. A strong household year also emerges in the most successful Bulgarian collective sport in volleyball. We have three League of Nations tournaments for men and one for women who will be held in Varna, Plovdiv, and for women in Ruse. The cities have been selected for the choice of the contestants themselves. We have spoken with them where they prefer to play, to whose audience, so we have complied with them in the distribution of households. With regard to competitions that have the rank of Olympic qualifications and have points for ranking the Olympic Games, we are thinking not only of Tokyo 2020 but also ahead of Paris............................................................................................... to Paris.............................................................................................................................................. At the end of 2019 we will host the Taekwondo World Cup, which ranked G4, which means the strongest tournament possible in the Olympic taekwondo. These are very few races, but give a huge number of points in the world rankings that matter for ranking our contestants for the Olympic Games. In August 2019 it will probably be the most interesting competition in our calendar for this year. This is the Olympic volleyball qualification for men, which will be held in Varna from 9th to 11th August, where we will face the teams of Brazil, Egypt and Puerto Rico and it will be crucial for the participation of the team of the Olympic Games in Tokyo. In the same month we have a European Badminton Cup, which brings points for ranking the Olympics. In 2020 we will host the latest Olympic qualification in the most successful Bulgarian sport "The fight" before the summer Olympics in Tokyo. I've already had informal conversations about our desire to host and take over the Olympic boxing organization for the Tokyo Games. You know there's a lot of tension between the International Olympic Committee and the AIBA, the world organization that deals with boxing. There are very serious reasons to believe that the rights of the International Federation will be taken away because of numerous violations in connection with the financing of the organization and we have serious chances, I have offered the services of Bulgaria so that it can organise one such qualification, which will be led and organised directly by the International Olympic Committee. With regard to competitions with a more distant horizon. For example, in 2021 we apply for the European Judo Championship for men and women, we apply for the European Sailing Championship and European Acrobatics Championship. It has already been decided that we are one of the hosts of the European Women's Volleyball Championship in 2021. We have received a proposal from a Greek country to participate together with them, Serbia and Romania, in raising the common bid to host the European Men's Basketball Championship in 2021. Our forces are the first qualifying group. This is also a very ambitious project, which is still at a very conceptual level, we have not yet started detailed talks with the Greek side. We filed documents for the European wrestling championship in 2022 and last week I held formal negotiations with the president of the World Fight Federation for our candidacy to host the FIFA in 2023, which will actually be an Olympic qualification for the games in Paris. For the World Championship of Art Gymnastics we have already been approved as host in 2022. It will also have the status of Olympic qualification for the ensembles for the games in Paris. So we are working to get very serious support for the qualifications and for the next Olympic Games. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u87	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question of Rules should be asked by a representative of the BSP Parliamentary Group. We move on to a question from the United Patriarchs. Mr. Slavcho Atanasov gives a sign. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u88	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Kralev, it has become clear from your words that at the moment the Ministry of Youth and Sport is helping financially households only in certain sports and these are the sports of the first groups defined in the Program for the Development of Sports for excellence. From our joint work in the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, I am aware of the reform in the funding of the federations that you have carried out and the fact that, in addition to reducing the number of federations that receive public funds, you have introduced clear criteria for determining their funding. It is also normal to consider these criteria in the case of financial assistance to households. Please provide us with more information about the sports groups and the criteria that define them. Is there a specific principle on which you distribute the budget for households between them?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u89	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. You have the floor, Minister, to answer Mr. Slavcho Atanasov's question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u90	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Atanasov! The fact is that during this year the Ministry of Youth and Sport supports financially through its programs Sport for excellence and Programme for Olympic Training 45 Federations, while licensed ones are 107. Since 2014, we have seriously reduced the number of federations whose activities are supported on the basis of precise criteria. For example 2014, when I started my first term, the funding from state federations was 67. You understand that the main reason for this difference is that we have found that, for example, 22 federations are working differently, that is, they should not rely on state funding in view of the results they achieve, and their development plans in the coming years. Of course, under the Sports Development Programme for everyone and Sport Development for people with disabilities we have additional resources that are allocated to these federations. There is no country in the world that can afford to finance all licensed federations for example in the US receive support from the state through the Olympic Committee no more than 36 federations which they have designated as priority and useful for the development of their nation. We have introduced criteria by which we have regulated and divided the federations into five main groups. The first group are the federations that have Olympic medals in the last two Olympics and are allowed to, for example, if you have not had any success in the two last Olympics, but you have a medal from the last world championship in the current Olympic cycle, which suggests that you have the potential to win medals at the Olympics, immediately the Federation gets into the first group. That's what happened to the taekwondo, and that's what happened to karate, which in the last two years won medals from world championships. In the second group are these federations that have received rankings from the two last Olympiads from first to eighth place, i.e. they are supposed to have serious potential in the next Olympics to repeat such rankings again, and to broadcast medalists from this group, the first two federations are actually the elite of the Bulgarian sport, fighting and rhythmic gymnastics, boxing, athletics, weightlifting, volleyball, skiing, shooting, swimming, judo, cano-kayak, taekwondo. Since this year, as I mentioned, karate has already been included, which will for the first time be an Olympic sport at the Tokyo Games. In the third group are those sports that are able to win quotas. Such are sports that have won quotas in the last games or our experts have seen potential that there are young prospective racers who can fight for quota at the next Olympic Games in Tokyo. There are biathlons, tennis, rowing, skates, fencing, gymnastics, sailing, modern petoe and others. Here, in the case of the biathlon, which for more than 20 years had no serious success in the world championship, a few weeks ago Vlado Iliev became the second in the World Championship for Men, respectively the biathlon immediately from next year was placed in the first funding group. So this is an example of how we stimulate sports to pursue success all the time. On the other hand, having achieved some success in the past is no guarantee that you will continue to receive the same money and be in the first groups. In group four, we've put in the socially significant sports. In other words, these are sports in which, for one reason or another, we have no international success, but are extremely important for building a healthy generation and for building a nation. Such sports, for example, are collective sports, which are practiced in mass, for example, the criterion for this collective sport group is to have over 70 registered sports clubs for collective and over 34 clubs for individual. Here, of course, are football, basketball, horse sport, handball, table tennis, orientation, arm wrestling and most combat sports that enjoy great popularity among Bulgarian youths. In the fifth group we have separated sports that show opportunities for development. These are sports that, for one reason or another, are organisedly short-lived or newly-licensed, but they are trying to have a development plan and we see that they are really trying to protect their right to state funding. It's trampoline, MMA, water polo, chess, acrobatics and more. With the financial support of households, we actually follow this logic, as is the allocation of funds from the "Sport" Programme for all and the Olympic Training Programme. We have found that the household is part of the state's support for the development of these sports, because many Bulgarian young people are keen and starting to train, to deal with their favorite sports, and those who are our most successful need support in order to establish our experts, both the federation and the coaches and the creators on an international scale. There is absolutely no precise budget allocation between these groups, because the type of competitions varies, is not strictly defined every year. As I told you, we have traditional Olympics and world cups. We also have episodes that are the largest, in fact Olympic qualifications, European and world championships. For example, at the moment 40% of the budget we set aside as a household goes to the sports included in the first group, i.e. this is the sports elite of Bulgaria. Group two goes between 20 and 30%. So between 60 and 80% of the household funds go to the sports elite, that's between the first and the second group, where our really elite federations are. In the third group are special sports, they are between 10 and 15% for the different year and for other sports are 5%. Of course, sometimes we also finance federations outside those who develop sports for excellence. For example, in 2018, we financed the World Chess Championship for blind and under-seeing men and women, the World Deaf Championship in 2016, and other disability championships, as well as international championships, developing sports on a industrial and age basis. In 2017, for example, we supported the World Volleyball Organization for Men of the Sports Association of the Ministry of Interior. In 2015 we have a European Tennis Championship for veterans organized by the Bulgarian Masters Organization. The fact is, however, and we have seen the main funds that the state allocates are for the elite of the Bulgarian sport, included in the first and second group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u91	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u92	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, speaking of the results of the international sports competitions held over the last few years, you have focused on the social and economic impact achieved by these households. Yes, there is no dispute that these households help promote both our country and the regions and cities where these events take place, but it is the impression that you only mention Sofia, Plovdiv and Varna. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms believe that the policy of the state should be aimed at expanding the geography of these households in order to enable other regions and other cities to achieve this social and economic effect that you have spoken of. My question to you is: what is our country's vision in terms of expanding the geography of international sports competitions conducted outside the traditional major cities of which you have mentioned "Sofia, Plovdiv and Varna"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u93	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to answer the question of the MP, Mr. Sevim Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u94	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ali, I thank you for the question, because it will give me the opportunity to tell more about our households in which cities they are organized, and from then on you will decide whether our policy is correct or not in the direction of expanding geography. Of course, I strongly agree that this is one of the most important things by planning such households, and our state strategy for sport development is to expand the geography of cities that take on households of such rank not only international competitions, but competitions and the internal calendar. Of course, this is directly dependent on the availability of the relevant infrastructure, so thanks to the last 7 years in the country, many new sports sites have been built that really allow many competitions to take place. Here the issue is already about the politics of the Federations and the Ministry which cities will be preferred. Of course, Sofia, Plovdiv and Varna are the largest cities that offer the best conditions as a hotel base, such as transport structure and so on. After the construction of the "Arena" Ruse, and I hope that after the completion of the "Arena" Burgas, these cities will also play a key role in taking households of the highest rank in competitions and sports that take place indoors. I'll give you an example. The World Volleyball Championship was held in three cities "Sofia, Varna and Ruse," which also offered excellent conditions. This year the World Volleyball League for men and women will also hold competitions in Varna, Plovdiv and Ruse. Ruse is included, i.e. it is already established as one of the cities that can traditionally take on such competitions. Of course, we also have geographically limited sports like rowing. The only city that can accept households of such high rank is Plovdiv because of the presence of the rowing base. But from there I was told that if we did not make sure to build a second comb canal, Plovdiv could soon be removed from the world rowing centers. I'll give you examples. Of course, we are working hard to expand geography. For example, thanks to a private investment, Panagyurishte also assumed household for the World Cup of Table Tennis, i.e. it became traditionally perhaps one of the strongest tournaments in the world that are produced. You imagine a small town like Panagyurishte what a great importance it is to accept and organize such a household. And this year we will accept, as I mentioned, the European Girls' Football Championship, which will take place mainly on the territory of Albena complex and at some stadiums from Varna and Dobrichka district, but the main focus will be in Albena. The World Championship of Athletics for Deaf was held in Stara Zagora in 2016, we held Balkanada in Stara Zagora, but the European team championship in athletics was also held during this period. We hosted the European Youth Football Championship in 2015, which was held in Sliven, Stara Zagora and Burgas, although we didn't have the same conditions at the stadiums as we already have, but still these cities met the criteria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u95	She needed it in Razgrad.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u96	There was no stadium back then. However, the stadium in Razgrad was not completed in 2015. Of course, as I said, we must strive and in principle it is a targeted state policy to expand sports infrastructure. For last year, for example, the Council of Ministers granted 3.7 million. lv. for the construction of a new sports hall in Kardzhali. We believe that after graduation this site can also serve as an example for other cities in order to strive and start building such halls, with which they will be cheaper, but will also enable many competitions to take place in them. Of course, each city, each municipality wants to have an expensive hall for 3, 5, 6 thousand people, but it is very difficult to maintain such halls and from the state, because we already take over, we have ownership of 3 So our advice will be to resort to the model we offer in Kardzhali so that we can optimally, with minimal support means, seek greater effect. Regarding winter sports, Bulgaria has also established itself as a very serious destination. Six world cups have been held in Bansko in the last 10 years. Of course, we had European cups in Borovets and Pamporovo. There, too, we strive not to direct funds to just one of the winter resorts as far as possible, of course, because the International Ski Federation makes the final choice. A week ago the World Congress of ski teachers InterSki took place in Pamporovo. The state also helped this organization, which was conducted in a perfect way. So such events allow for promotion of the other tourist winter centers and not only of Bansko, where the world cups are produced. In 2016, we had the Panichishte Mountain World Championship. Last year there was a European and World Ski Guidance Championship for young people and girls in Velingrad. We really strive to cover the most areas in the country, so your question has been very up-to-date. Indeed, this is politics, but more means are needed to complete sports infrastructure. We've got more stadiums to build, we haven't started the pools, but we've got everything in our time. I think that with the halls we already have a sustainable model that will allow for the expansion of geography. We are now working for the stadiums along our joint candidacy with the other Balkan countries for the World and European Championship. I hope it's our turn for the swimming pools too, because we're really a little behind there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u97	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Next is a question from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodolyptics, which Mrs. Georgieva will ask. Here you go, Mrs. Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Dear Minister Kralev, I would like to ask you what is going on today with the idea of stopping Park's destruction as a place for sport and recreation after at the beginning of the month of my inquiry you stated that you sent four letters to the Ministry of Environment and Waters to resolve the situation? Do you have answers from there and what are they? Will Vitosha become the center of winter sports and for Sofians, and for the guests of the capital after years of inaction, which leads us to believe that someone benefits from it? Will Vitosha become a worthy candidate for the Winter Youth Olympics in 2024 and how do you see the implementation of the Project in time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Georgieva. Here you are, Minister, to answer the question of the National Representative Boryana Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u100	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Georgieva, I thank you for the question, because it is really very relevant. He has recently disappeared from public attention, from the public interest, although we believe it is the most key project for the development of Bulgarian sport and our capital city in general. Our country's candidacy for the Winter Youth Olympics, of course, is absolutely real and has a very high chance of winning the race with the other serious cities that apply. Remember that this proposal came from IOC President Thomas Bach, who saw the wonderful organization we had during our work with households at the three world championships in September last year. We are moving forward this year with the World ShortTrek Championship, where we received superlatives from the World Federation; the World Cup we organized in Bansko is also a step forward. In the coming years, we continue to try to accept households now for the World Cup in Shorts, European or World Cup in Figure Skating, which, of course, are part of the sports that will be included in the Winter Youth Olympics Program and we need to show that in order to get the approval of the IOC with this application, we need to show that we are doing excellently with the organisation of all kinds of winter sports. However, the huge problem that we need to solve in order for Bulgaria to effectively raise its candidacy is that we need to solve the problem of non-compliance with our legislation and, more precisely, that in Vitosha's management plan and the Law on Structure of the Area. At the beginning of last year, an Interdepartmental Working Group was established, which had to analyse the current regulations and regimes of the existing management plan of the Nature Park "Vitosha" regarding the possibilities for reconstruction, modernisation and development of the infrastructure related to ski sports, the practice of ski sports, and to develop, of course, concrete proposals in what direction to amend the two documents. The results of the work of the Interdepartmental Group were presented in a report which was actually provided to colleagues from the Ministry of Environment and Water. The problem is that the current plan for management of Park "Vitosha" allows for a change of the lift only if it has to restore the old lift with the same steps to lift the carrier columns, with the same parameters as the old ones. Of course, when you're doing a reconstruction, you're changing the lift, you need to put in modern, new facilities that have different pole distances. This thing is forbidden because, according to ZUT, in order to change the concrete pillar, you need permission to build, and at the same time, the management plan of Vitosha is banning construction. The experts in Sofia Municipality, of course, came to the same conclusion as the Working Group, that without a change in the management plan, the facilities could not be upgraded. In this regard, we have sent four letters to the MoEW since the summer of last year. The last one was about two weeks ago. We hope to receive an answer as soon as possible and this procedure will be triggered because it is true that we do not have time. Following the timing of Bulgaria's candidacy, we cannot raise it without this contradiction being resolved, because then we will not answer unless we are sure that we can build the necessary infrastructure for Vitosha ski sports, our candidacy will be a failure and we have no right to make such a mistake. I can assure you that all the actions to be taken by us will be taken because this project is key to the development of Sofia's economy. I do not know if there is a Sofian, and a Bulgarian who does not want this wonderful opportunity, which we have the only capital in the world with a mountain in which part of the city enters, with an opportunity for 30 minutes to reach from the centre of the European capital to the lift. It's the only city that has such things, and I don't believe there's a person who's going to oppose that idea, of course. Needless to comment on what advertising Bulgaria will receive, and Sofia from hosting the winter Olympic Games for young people. In the past years Bulgaria has several unsuccessful applications to organize the winter Olympics, but we believe that this is not in our capabilities and it would be best to try the youth winter Olympics where the chances of winning are huge. We have serious support from the highest circles of the IOC, which sympathize with Bulgaria, because they have come here, they have seen Vitosha, we just have to do our homework so that the right infrastructure can be built, because maybe then Sofia will become the largest center for winter tourism and winter sports in the world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u101	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Are there any questions from MPs who do not belong to a parliamentary group, the procedure provides for the possibility of such a question? I can't see. Moving on to the second round of questions. Second question from GERB's parliamentary group come in. Mr. Dinev, you have the floor for a question to Minister Kralev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u102	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, in the last few years you, as Minister of Youth and Sports, and the Prime Minister of the country Mr. Borisov, have repeatedly declared yourself a policy of the state to assist households in major sports competitions. In this order of thought we cannot miss the holding of the forums that attract the broadest viewers and public interest, namely the possible candidacy of Bulgaria, Romania, Serbia and Greece for the European Football Championship in 2028 and the 2030 World Cup. Several very important summits were held between these countries, and during the last month in Sofia were the sports ministers of those countries with whom you discussed the possible opportunities for these applications. In light of the data you presented for advertising to our country and also for the prestige of sports federations, the effect of hosting such a large forum is undisputed. But there is no way we can pass the fact that for many people who are skeptical, this would also cause problems. The fact is that our country does not have the necessary sports new infrastructure. It is my question to you in this regard: are investments in the construction of such a new sports infrastructure within our power? Could you explain to us what talks have been made and what the country's specific plans are? In addition to our possible winning, God willing, in one of the two major sports forums and the construction of these new infrastructure sports sites, is further management and possibly their future use provided for in order to be profitable and used properly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u103	Thank you, Mr. Dinev. Mr. Minister, please answer the question of the National Representative Georgi Dinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u104	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dinev, I thank you for the question, as we have not had many opportunities to discuss it with you in our Commission, but we should inform the other Members of the National Assembly how the talks are going, because perhaps this is the largest sport project together with the youth Olympics for which our country is currently preparing, or is preparing at least the promotion of candidacy. After late last year, Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras invited Greece to join the preparation and promotion of a common bid to host a European or world championship, these were Romania, Serbia and Bulgaria, several workshops were held to prepare the promotion of this candidacy. I understand the skepticism of many MPs, of many journalists, and of part of the society, of course, because the criteria are very high Of course, the difference between a European and a world championship is huge. I will explain in a moment the answer to the question of what it is, that is, we really need to prepare ourselves. After a deep and serious economic analysis, we need to assess our powers in which of the two championships to apply, that is, I will start backwards. Our decision at the last forum, which took place in Sofia, was on my suggestion by the end of the year the four countries to take a decision, first, are we putting forward a nomination for a European or a global one? Because the difference in economic parameters is huge. I'll share in a moment what it's about. So far, we have held three meetings in Belgrade and one in Sofia. One in Belgrade was part of the summit between Serbia's president and the prime ministers of Bulgaria, Romania and Greece. At the first two meetings it was clearly stated that there is a very serious political will to raise such a candidacy. That is, I explained back then that this is a very serious political signal to all the countries in the world, that these four countries in the Balkans want to build a common home where we can work together and live together, broadcast a powerful political signal that the four countries are really determined to build a common family environment in which they exist. The best promoter of this policy is the organisation of sports competitions. You can see that we won right away from the idea. First we drew Romania to the organisation of the European Volleyball Championship for Women, now the idea of household and European basketball championship arises, so the really clear political sign and the political benefit of the project already exists and has been proven through our work in other sports. At the last meeting in Sofia we united around a text for a memorandum which will be signed next week in Thessaloniki. That is, then the establishment of an organizational committee on the preparation of our possible candidacy will be formalized, and the aim is, as I said, to make a final decision by the end of 2019 on what forum we will apply for. Although over the last 10 years, I can say that 10 years have actually been invested over 400 million since 2011. lv. in the construction of sports infrastructure, stadiums, unfortunately, are not in the condition in which we can accept matches from the highest international level. It has been done a lot to improve the infrastructure for holding the local championship, but from the standards of the world and European championship we are very far away. The requirements the FIFA has for hosting a world championship are the presence of a stadium of 80 thousand for the first opening match, and the final one for closing. Of course, Greece has such an opportunity. It has an Olympic stadium which, after some reconstruction, should simply remove the track as in the Lyuzhnikki, to become a football stadium, it is possible that two stadiums for the semifinals with 60 thousand viewers and the remaining 13 stadiums would be 40 thousand. We have assessed our options that stadiums with greater capacity than 40 thousand in Bulgaria are not needed, that is, in the negotiations we will stand for this position. Romania has a stadium ready. The only country that has a prepared stadium is Romania, the stadium in Bucharest. It may have a capacity of 60,000 viewers, as Romania will be part of the 14 cities that will host the European Championship in 2020. The economic account is very simple about the infrastructure So, one stadium with a capacity of 40 thousand is worth 40 million. EUR, one with 80 thousand, comes out 80 million. Euros. Here the question is: will these facilities then be able to be used? That is why we are aiming for the lowest level associated with the lowest capacity. Of course, for the European Championship the requirements are much easier. There we talk that one of the stadiums should have 30,000 seats, three stadiums with 50 thousand, three with 40 thousand and four stadiums with 30 thousand seats. So we can make the national be 40, three more stadiums with 30 and quite calmly we can get involved, yes. That is, the European Championship is a far more acceptable option for us, if you ask here what my opinion is on this issue. At the moment I have held meetings with the mayors of four municipalities - these are Sofia, Plovdiv, Varna and Burgas, because we believe that these are the cities that can apply due to the availability of appropriate infrastructure - transport system, hotels, airports. Of course, these are very important elements without which we cannot. Here is the second part of the question: can these stadiums be used? The maximum capacity for Bulgaria is between 20 and 30 thousand people for example, i.e. if we move on to the European Championship option, the chance to maximise the use of stadiums is very high.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u105	Adjoining infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u106	Adjoining infrastructure, too. I'm saying that, first of all, we have to go from the stadium's capacity and depends on what type of adjacent infrastructure will be built, as the parking lot for...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u107	Training fields.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u108	Training fields, too. I'm starting with the most important. To any stadium other than training fields, there should be appropriate bases in each host city where they can train and conduct their training. So it's going to be bigger, but we start with the choice. To choose what championship we have to apply for, we need to see what stadiums are and whether it makes sense to make such big stadiums if they are not going to be used. For now, we have a proposal from four mayors of good places that we believe meet the standards. We just need, for example, for a future use, to say, as is the case in Plovdiv, the two teams are willing to use the stadium. Because if they claim that Botev will play at their stadium, and Lokomotiv will play at the other stadium, this stadium will not be able to stay in the center of Plovdiv as a facility that may be used only for Derby or two or three meetings of the year. In other words, talks must be held with clubs, we must convince them that they will get a much better opportunity for sport and competitions at this new stadium, which will be built in Plovdiv. In terms of other requirements for the host countries, I think we will have no problem. The transport corridors that connect Sofia with Bucharest, Sofia with Belgrade, I think will be completed by then. We have airports in all the cities that are being offered. In fact, at this meeting in Thessaloniki, which will be held next week, we will see which countries, which cities will propose. There are conversations about the capacity of stadiums. I'll let you know after each such meeting, it's two months away, where we are. I hope that at the end of the year we will have a cause for joy so that we have decided to raise Bulgaria's candidacy to host some of these championships. Of course, we have the best chance of hosting a European championship, I say again in 2032. These are the best chances. However, because the proposal from the Greek side was linked to a world championship organization, we need to analyse all the possibilities that there are, possibly, to accept or reject this option and the four sides. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u109	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Next up is a question from the parliamentary group "United Patriarchs." I don't see a second question. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Here you are, Mr. Ali, for a second question from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, given the traditional and characteristic sports for the respective regions and municipalities developed over the years to this day, my question to you is: is it possible for the GERB government to prepare and implement a National Investment Development Programme to improve sports infrastructure, including in small towns? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u111	Thank you. Mr. Minister, please, you have the opportunity to answer Mr. Ali's question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u112	Of course it's possible. We are following our investment programme in terms of the management mandate that we now have. Many sites are also made in small settlements, but already detailed, when we finish with the big district centers, I think that this thing will really happen, this program will continue to develop. As I explained to you, we have stadiums to build, we have pools to build. This is very important for the creation of a healthy generation and a healthy nation, because these are the most popular and the most practiced sports sports athletics, soccer and swimming, and, of course, all water sports. For small settlements, I would like to remind you of just one more programme: the Rural Development Programme, where, in my opinion, also in the opinion of our experts, the funds have not been spent in the best way. You were limping on the planning. Not that the objects weren't made. They were made, but for example, there were many objects with greater capacity than were the settlements in which they were built. I mean, for the next term of office, I guess we'll also work out a detailed enough program for small municipalities. Of course, there will be an extremely active support for this Rural Development Programme. We've spoken to colleague Porozhanov. The texts have been refined and, as far as I know, there are about 10 gyms that will be built under this program. That concludes the review of the documents, but not to go into someone else's business. They're all small settlements. I can't tell you how many projects there are. About 10 will be approved. I can't tell you how many applicants there are. They will mainly be used for gyms. Of course, we do a lot of games for mini football, basketball, volleyball playgrounds, tennis courts, but the settlements are an awful lot. Of course, as much as we strive to concentrate, to make a plan that is really up to date, it is very difficult with the funds, because huge budgets are required. It is a priority to build the infrastructure first where there are the most Bulgarian residents. Again, we do not forget the small settlements, constantly implementing projects from our ministry in such settlements. Last week we found a field like this in Aytos, so we don't forget them, but you do realize it's very important... We're way behind on the swimming pools, the stadiums. First, we have to do this work and in parallel, the Small Towns Program will also go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u113	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. It is the turn of the parliamentary group "VOLIA" for a second question. Is there going to be one? It won't be placed. The procedure provides for the possibility, after the questions to the Minister are exhausted, for the parliamentary groups to express an opinion. Welcome to the parliamentary group's opinion, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u114	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Today, in the procedure we are completing, we witnessed how the government of Mr. Borisov and Party GERB, how the Council of Ministers, how the Ministry of Youth and Sport implements our policies in practice with a systematic approach, an analysis of everything that has happened in sport, conclusions and concrete results, with state policy, commitment by Prime Minister Borisov to the sports community through all sports organizations, federations, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the team of Minister Kralev with proposals, with a new Law on Sports, waited, long working and finally adopted in this National Assembly, proposed and created by this team, which is already starting to deliver results. Because there are also the investments in sport, in it are the analyses for financing what the Ministry is doing, and all of us who are involved in it together with the MPs and public figures and the people who are involved in sports and give opportunity to our young generation, together with our athletes, with our athletes, with our proven specialists and the young generation to develop and to engage in sports, because in the end, besides high sports mastery, there is also the thing that cures our spirit and health nation, and this is the sport. I dare say that I am engaged in a sixth grade sport and waiting for the time to come when in sport to find the balance between professional sport, between Olympic and Neo-Olympic sports, between sport for high sports craftsmanship and children's, adolescent and general practice sport for health. The balance between youth policies and sport is an extremely difficult thing that this team of Minister Kralev has managed to do so far. But I'm not the one who's just gonna praise the Ministry. I appeal to the Ministry and to a huge, important request: in order to realise all that you are doing, Mr. Minister, and in order to have a real result at last, the Ministry, I know that you have this desire as a team, but let us also state it from this high tribune, must begin its control activities on those not many of the 107 federations who do not develop their activities. In the Sports Act you proposed, the National Assembly adopted and created an opportunity for the Ministry to already actively control the activities of sports federations in order to avoid and doping scandals in order to avoid fictitious federations in order to avoid and unprofessional attitude towards sports, training children, training young people and professionals. I believe that here you will show the same activity and the same results will be done in the development of sport and in investment for sport. Finally, I am obliged by this tribune to say something very important to my colleagues and to the people who are watching us. I never expected that even when we were talking about sports, about youth policies, there would be no parliamentary group in this House at all. Because there are a few things in our lives that I think we shouldn't, can't and shouldn't be subjected to partying and politicizing. One of these extremely important things is sport and youth policies. Because this is the future of our country, the future of Bulgaria, the opportunity to sport, the authority of the country in the world of sport, the raising of the Bulgarian flag of the next world, Olympic, European and all other competitions. And abdicating it as a whole political force is a shame. I can't help but say it. Thank you, Mr. Minister, for everything you've said here, from this tribune, and you've introduced the MPs to what you're doing. I will personally allow myself to say that in my face you have the support and my colleagues 100 percent for what you do. God willing, more world champions and Olympic champions, God willing, more households at world championships, European championships and, for God's sake, more youth and children training in sports clubs in sports federations, because, again, this is our future. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u115	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov, about the attitude to the answers given on behalf of the group of the United Patriarchs.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u116	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It's hard to talk after the first one, especially as my friend Mr. Manev, who's been in sports all his life, and basically took some of my speech that I was going to make, but that's life. I would especially like to see this presentation of our minister, I say to our minister, because I am President of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports and almost all colleagues from the Commission are here, without colleagues, unfortunately from the BSP, to express my satisfaction because he was, as always, extremely prepared. Answered the questions very precisely and clearly, without general talk, without inflating pink balloons, said things as they should be. Of course, there are many problems in sport, but I would like to tell you that this government and this particular minister after 30 years have made a pretty good Law on Physical Education and Sport in cooperation, notice here I must emphasise, with absolutely all the political forces involved in the preparation of this Law. Now, Mr. Minister, I would also like to express my gratitude for the great help that we meet from our Ministry of Physical Education and Sports on the preparation of the Great Law on Sports and Football hooliganism, as we call it. Your experts are required and constantly present in the working group. The law so important law is almost completely ready. We need a few more meetings of the task force. He will then go to a public discussion and I hope by the end of the session of this Parliament, August, that we will finally have this so important law in this area. The other thing I wanted to stress, you said it in the Report with the many figures you put out. Of course, the report should be just like that. I wanted to, because somehow by the way, it did, but other Members of the National Assembly need to know a very interesting fact, although in our Commission we know it. The Bulgarian state is accused by the opposition of all sorts of things, but I will say the following curiosity: it specifically devotes a lot of money and finances much more sports than the United States itself. The countries that currently spend the most money on sports are America and China. The sports the Americans finance are half ours. This shows the very good attitude of the state itself towards the development of the Bulgarian sport. As you can see, recent results are not late: we in a week or two are either giving birth to a world champion, or one of our athletes is in the called threesome. We've come to the absurdity of having only a week ago a vice-president in the biathlon, which is something unique and incredible. I'll stop here. I'm pleased with your presentation. I've also talked about this with colleagues from our parliamentary group. Of course, the idea in the future is to pay more attention to mass, school sports, because the cherry on the cake everywhere is the sport of higher craftsmanship. We see things gradually there from the hole we had fallen into for many years, slowly coming into place. Our athletes regularly start winning medals in international forums, and I repeat, in sports where we have never won them. Thank you for today's performance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u117	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Will we hear attitude from the other parliamentary groups from the DPS and from the Volya? We're probably all solidarity. I, too, would like to thank you personally for today's participation and for the abundant information that has created hopes and expectations for you. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear MPs, a photo exhibition dedicated to the World Water Day will be opened at the Club of the National Representative, which we celebrate on March 22nd. The author of the exhibition is the Burgas photographer Todor Stavrev. All MPs are invited to the opening. We interrupt the meeting for 30 minutes. At 12.05, we move on. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u118	Dear Members of Parliament, we are continuing to work on the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE COMPANY AND THE IMO REGISTER. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 1 March 2019. I see the chairmen of the two committees who have reports. I give the floor to the President of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government to present the Report. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u119	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Cadastral and Property Register Act, No 902-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 15 March 2019, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cadastre and Property Register Act, No 902-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 March 2019. The meeting of the Commission was attended by Mr. Valentine Yovev, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, representatives of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Valentine Jobev. The aim of the Bill is to improve the administrative service of Cadastral Services Users by creating a legal opportunity for persons who have acquired competence under the Cadastral and Property Register Act to assist Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Services (SGCC). The amendments and additions made to the provisions of the Law provide for the possibility of persons acquired competence under the Law on Cadastral and Property Registers, who are traders or free of charge, to assist the activities of Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Services, by providing in paper form the most sought-after official documents on land properties and buildings, schemes of independent sites and certificates of presence or lack of data. The documents will be obtained through remote access to the Cadastral Information System. The documents provided to users in this order will have the power of an official document issued by the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency. Legal persons will provide cadastral services to consumers subject to the general rules laid down by the Administrative Service Ordinance. The Agency will monitor this activity of the eligible persons, such as information on which persons carrying out those activities will be recorded in the relevant register. A detailed framework of the terms and conditions for carrying out and termination of the activity and the types of documents that the entitled persons will provide will be laid down in a sub-legal legal act. The Regulation on the provision of cadastral card services and cadastral registers issued by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. An obligation is introduced for persons who have acquired competence under the Law on Cadastral and Property Register to maintain and increase their professional qualifications. Competent persons shall undertake to pass courses every 2 years after the year in which they have acquired or have undergone a previous course. The courses for maintaining and improving the qualifications of the qualified Cadastres will be carried out under a programme approved by the Agency. The courses will be held by universities where students are trained in the professional field of Architecture, Construction and Geodesy, non-governmental professional organizations in the field of Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre and by people with qualification and experience in conducting trainings in the field of Cadastre. A change has been proposed regarding the imposition of sanctions on persons who have acquired competence under the Cadastral and Property Register Act, which, in the course of their activities, have violated the regulatory requirements and the infringement is repeated. It is proposed that an amendment requiring that the design of the Cadastral Card and Cadastral Registers be submitted in digital form electronically instead of on paper is submitted by the legal person. The circle of bodies and persons entitled to receive sketches, schemes and certificates from the Agency through the Cadastral Information System shall be extended and the electronic documents may be used for their proceedings. The Transitional and Final Provisions proposed amendments to the Geodesy and Cartography Act aimed at updating and clarifying the texts for which, in the course of their implementation, they were found to be inaccurate or incomplete or not entirely in line with the activities regulated in other regulations or practical implementation following the introduction of the most advanced technologies into geodetic practice. There are also proposed amendments to the Law on Construction in the Area, which aim to alleviate the administrative burden in carrying out the procedure for the introduction of constructions and buildings in operation, and for the contracting entity of the site the obligation to provide to the authorities entering the sites in operation, a document proving that the sites are placed in the cadastral map and cadastral registers. The amendment relates to the amendments to the Cadastral and Property Register Act, which introduces an obligation for the Agency to provide access to the Cadastral Information System of the Authorities that put the sites into service in order to carry out a business check on whether the sites are placed in the Cadastral Map and Cadastral Registers. In view of the need to implement changes and the regulations implementing the Law on Cadastral and Property Register, which must be brought into line with the amendments resulting from this Law, it is envisaged that the bill will enter into force within three months of its publication in the Official Journal. As a result of the implementation of the amendments to the Law, the activities of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadaster services will be supported, the administrative service of the users of cadastral services will be improved and, on the one hand, will be given the opportunity to create new points for access to the Cadastral Services and, on the other, the resources of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Services will be released and the employees will direct their activities to control the activities of creating the cadastral map and cadastral registers and to maintain them in an up-to-date state. This will improve the quality of the cadastral map and cadastral registers and increase the satisfaction of cadastral service users. In the opinion of the National Association of Municipalities is expressed principle support of the Bill, and a proposal for the allocation of revenues from fees for services supplied by municipalities is made, part of the revenues being entered into the municipal budget. During the discussion, the MPs expressed their principled support for the bill, paying attention to the need to refine separate provisions between the two votes. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 12 votes for the Council of Ministers, no votes against the Council of Ministers and abstentions, proposes to the National Assembly that a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Cadastre and Property Register, No 902-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers, be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u120	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u121	Madam President, allow me to make a procedural proposal to allow access to the hall of Valentine Jovev "Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u122	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. We are voting on the procedural proposal for access to the Deputy Minister's room. We do not have the quorum necessary to invite the Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works to the Chamber. We continue with the presentation of the Defence Committee Report. General Popov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u123	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, distinguished students from the town of Parvomay! ♪ I can't believe of the Defence Committee on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cadastral and Property Register Act, No 902-0-11, submitted to the National Assembly by the Council of Ministers on 1 March 2019. At a regular meeting held on 14 March 2019, the Defence Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cadastral and Property Register Act, No 902-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 March 2019. Deputy Ministers of Defence Atanas Zaprianov and Anatoli Velichkov, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Valentin Yovev and Head of Political Office Vesela Nacheva-Krusteva, as well as experts from both departments were present. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Deputy Minister Jovev, who put forward the arguments for the proposed changes and additions. He noted that the main purpose of the changes is to improve the administrative service of all Cadastral Service users, which, due to the huge volume of requests for data, is being carried out at this stage with difficulties and time waiting. The proposals create a legal opportunity for persons who acquire competence under the Law on Cadastre and the Property Register to assist the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre services. Individuals will have remote access to the Cadastral Information System and will provide the most sought-after documents on paper to the users - sketches, schemes and certificates of availability and lack of data, with the power of an official document. They cannot change the data, and only with their signature will they certify what they have received from the information array. The draft law indicates which categories can be used by the persons entitled to perform the basic geodist engineers who will hold the required certificate. The selection, qualification and control of the extended circle of rights is regulated. Both harsh and fair sanctions are proposed in breach of the provisions of the Law. The transitional and final provisions also make changes to the Geodesy and Cartography Act with a view to clarifying and supplementing the activities of maintaining the state geodesic network and the deadline for the renewal of state topographic maps. The amendments are supported and agreed by the Ministry of Defence Military Geographic Service. Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zaprianov presented an opinion of the Ministry of Defence which fully supports the bill. The draft is allocated to the Defence Committee because the Ministry of Defence is the department with a number of obligations and the Minister with responsibilities under the Geodesy and Cartography Act. Following the discussion of the draft and the unanimous opinion of support, a vote was held: with 14 votes for a vote, without abstention and abstention, the Defence Committee proposed to the National Assembly to support a first vote Draft amendment and supplement to the Cadastral and Property Register Act, No 902-01-11, submitted to the National Assembly by the Council of Ministers on 1 March 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u124	Thank you, General Popov. Are you proposing a re-voting?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u125	Madam President, if I may suggest once again a procedure for admission to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u126	Thank you. We are voting on the proposal for admission to the House of the Deputy Minister of Regional Development. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Deputy Minister of Regional Development to the Chamber. Will there be an importer's opinion, Mr. Deputy Minister? No. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u127	Dear Madam President, honourable colleagues, guests! The Cadastral and Property Register Bill can be defined as part of the ongoing reform in recent years in relation to improving the quality of services in the interests of citizens and businesses. Today's Bill is part of a series of bills that we have voted on in recent years precisely in this direction. In 2014, we enabled notaries to have remote access to the Agency's system and to be able to issue sketches, in the sense that they had access, then to certify to companies and citizens with their signature and stamp these sketches. In 2016, we took another step in this direction by giving the agriculture services, which are dozens in the country, also have remote access and provide the same services to citizens and businesses. The main thing we are doing in this bill is to unload the Agency and the Geodesy, Cadaster and Cartography services, because due to the investment process that has been going on in the country in recent years, the workload of the geodesy services is increasing and hence their inability to provide the service with timely access to information for citizens. What is envisaged in the Bill, and we will support it, is that persons who at this stage have more than 2200 persons, also have the opportunity to have access to the system only informatively, now really, as well as notaries, as well as agriculture services will have such remote access and will be able to provide paper-based access. First they will require information electronically, then they can provide it to citizens on paper for their needs. The second, which is important to note, is that it is also possible for the judicial system to have such limited access when necessary so as not to impose unnecessary administrative exchanges of correspondence between the Cadastral Agency, Geodesy and Cadastral Services and the Judicial System. We believe that this remote access will provide a much better job between the two services, the judiciary and the Agency, so that really no time is wasted. I'll give you an example: Sofia is the largest provider of cartography and geodesy services - about 18 thousand applications per month. You understand yourself that the Agency, although its state number has increased in the last year, cannot be achieved in time, and it is a fact that it is obvious that any requested service by the Agency is, unfortunately, delayed. This violates the investment process and is directly detrimental to citizens and businesses. We believe that by giving the rightful persons the opportunity to perform this service on behalf of the Agency, this access to information will be easier and will not really slow citizens and businesses when they need the relevant information. In this regard, the Council of Ministers has proposed and we fully support it every two years, all these law-abiding individuals, either physically or legally, to go to training courses every two years, and to this end we will engage all universities that are involved in architecture and urban planning. It is also very important to note that municipalities, including regional administrations, since as a representative of Sofia, this directly affects the citizens of the city, too, to have this remote access. And so far they have, but unfortunately, only eight of the district municipalities have taken advantage. I hope that the adoption of this law will facilitate the procedure, and possibly, the possibility that in the future some of the revenues will remain in municipal administrations will stimulate to carry out this service in the name and interest of the investment process throughout the country, in particular in the city of Sofia. I believe that the bill is timely. I firmly believe that it must be supported, of course, with the condition that, between first and second votes, if there are substantial amendments, they must be examined and put to the vote. I believe that the Law has indeed been done well and must be supported. It is entirely in favor of business, citizens and will make the service much easier to access, within the deadlines that are regulated, and not to result in delays, nervousness, tails, because the office of geodesy, cartography and cadastre in large cities is indeed very busy, with many waiting. I believe that in this way we will make the Agency much easier on this service to provide information, we will enable it to deal mainly with improving the cadastral maps. At this stage, the coverage of the entire country with cadastrals and registers is about 72%, with the assurance by the Agency that by the end of this year the coverage rate of the entire country will exceed ninety. We believe that the Agency and the services really need to deal mainly with this activity, and that citizens in different ways, either through the persons who are registered and are entitled, through notaries, through legal persons to gain access and not delay the process. Thank you for your attention. I hope you'll support the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u128	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Are there any lines? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Mr. Ali, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u129	Madam President, honourable Members! The Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support the Bill at first reading, of course, and between first and second reading we will have certain proposals. Mr. Nenkov mentioned many things that should be done. The Bill itself has a resonant because this problem is huge not only in large district cities and in large municipalities, but also in small towns, in small municipalities. Citizens and legal persons who apply for such certificates are unfortunately already delayed even within half a year, at least three months. There is a huge influx, you know, and heirs, and companies that are about to build, always turn to these agencies, and maybe the huge problem is because of the lack of personnel in small towns and access to the information itself. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we will look at the proposals and opinions of all institutions on this subject and I hope with joint efforts this bill will indeed become a fact because it makes sense what is being done. We hope that the specialists who will work will issue certificates and support the Cadastral Agency will be at a level to have the effect of this entire procedure. I hope that this bill becomes a reality as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u130	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Are there any lines to his statement? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Mr. Kolev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u131	Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Minister, honourable Members! You know how public opinion and attention are focused on the services provided by the public administration. One of the great discontents where it is pointed out that there is much to be done is precisely this activity in the Cadasta. In this way, we could respond to public opinion without having to appoint thousands of employees to the administration in order to resolve this delaying administrative service. There is also an opportunity to solve the problem of citizens without burdening the state budget. My colleagues and I have also talked to experts about the fact that the budget will not be harmed, that is, the revenue part will not be reduced, it will also remain. It's a good effect. With full consensus, our parliamentary group decided that we would support the bill. We believe that this will give citizens in the country a better service. Not to mention there's more to be done in the sector. In this way, we will allow geodesists to complete the necessary reform, or to draw up the missing parts of the filming. We hope this will happen with mutual interest from society, from the geodesists who will do it, from the Ministry itself and from us, if we now adopt this law. I think we will be at the level of supporting an administrative burden to drop what the people expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u132	Thank you, Mr. Kolev. Are there any lines to his statement? I won't. Are there any other statements? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Cadastral and Property Register, No 902 01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 March 2019. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The proposal and the bill have been passed. We move to the next item on the agenda: HEARING THE MINISTER OF REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND THE BENEFICIARY OF FOUNDATION. 113 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION WITH REGARD TO THE INSTRUCTION OF AUTOMAGURIALS AND SMOORARY ROUTES IN BULGARIA. In accordance with art. 113 of our rules, we begin with an exposition of the person who proposed the hearing. Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u133	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! The reason for my hearing on the topic "The advance on the construction of highways and roads in Bulgaria" is based on the fact that in recent years, and in the following years, a very serious construction activity is envisaged precisely in the construction of infrastructure of the highest class. We're talking highways and speed roads. And if at the time the thesis was very added, that almost asphalt was not eaten and this was a leitmotive of colleagues on the left, then we actually see in our daily work that in every parliamentary Friday control most of the questions asked to the Minister of Regional Development are related to this. It really turned out to be what we have always defended as a thesis that without a well-developed infrastructure we cannot expect neither economic growth nor citizens can be satisfied. Without sufficient quality access, we cannot expect business to be satisfied, we cannot expect backward regions to catch up with those who are much more advanced. And it is a fact that South Bulgaria is in times more economically developed. One reason is that the main infrastructure in recent years and the main resource has been directed that way. I'm talking about the highways of Trakia, Maritsa, Struma. That certainly has its effect. The management program of GERB and the coalition agreement that we have with our colleagues in the United Patriarchs, we have highlighted in the coming years the construction of a leading infrastructure in Northern Bulgaria. The request for the hearing of Minister Avramova is precisely in this direction to understand, especially the citizens to understand, at what stage are the projects that are started, I am talking about: Ruse These are all important questions without which we cannot answer the citizens why these regions fall behind, why they are not at the economic level that we want them to be. I hope that in the forthcoming hearing the answer to these questions will be given so that citizens can know within specific deadlines, concrete parameters when the long-awaited construction of these roads will be a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u134	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Dear Minister, please come in for a statement regarding the subject of the hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Nenkov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for this topic and the issue that has been put to the hearing today, because this is one of the main priorities of the government - sustainable development of the national road network as an integral part of the common European road transport network, which in turn is directly linked to processes of prioritization and implementation of specific projects. From the scale of construction in the last ten years, we can see that we have built entirely three highways. These are Trakia, Maritsa and Lyulin, which is recently part of the Struma highway. The highway itself is also at the finish line.. We remained to finish a section of 40.6 km and in 2023 to be ready. The top priority of the government is the highway, which we are ambitious to finish in 2024. The implementation of projects in the road sector will be accelerated with the introduction of the Tol system for heavy goods vehicles after 16 August 2019. We expect that when it is fully operational in 2020 revenues of more than 1 billion will be provided. BGN, as these proceeds are a significant financial resource, which can be spent only on construction of roads and rehabilitation of old ones. The road sector will have more resources and we, as well as the generations after us, will have resources to deal with decades of needs to improve the Republican road network, which is currently over 20,000. km. Let's start with Struma. With the completion of the highway "Struma" which is part of the corridor "Streuma" which provides the shortest route between Western Europe, Central Europe and the White Sea and Europe's connection to Asia, all major road projects in southern Bulgaria will be completed. Currently, three lots have been built and put into operation by the "Struma" - Lot 1 - Dolna Dikanya - Dupnitsa - Lot 2 - Dupnitsa - Blagoevgrad - Lot 4 - Sandanski - The Tower. In the process of implementation is Lot 3 "Blagoevgrad " Sandanski" with a length of 64 km, which is co-financed by the Cohesion Fund of the European Union and the national budget through Operational Programme "Transport and Transport Infrastructure" 2014 " 2020" and is divided into several sections: 3.1 "Blagoevgrad" "Krupnik", Lot 3.1 tunnel "Zeleznitsa", Lot 3.2 "Kresna gorge", Lot 3.3 "Kresna "Kresna Sandanski", which was put into service five months ago on 17 December 2018. The grant agreement, Annex 2 for the construction of Struma Motorway 3.1, 3.3. and Zheleznitsa Tunnel, amounted to 759 million. 64,000. 37 leva. There has been a contract of 30 December 2015 for the design and construction of Lot 3.1 lv. with VAT, as well as a contract of 30 December 2015 for the supervision of the design and construction of the motorway "Struma" and Lot 3.1 with contractor "MM Struma" and Lot 3.1 with a value of just over 2 million. lv. The physical progress of the project is 48%, and the expected deadline for completion of the construction is 12 August 2019. The contract will be extended due to unforeseen circumstances. The move of some of the archeological structures found in it, as well as a procedure for changing the route of the last 3 km of the section related to the changed and approved route of Lot 3.2. Tunnel "Zeleznitsa". There are contracts for design and construction, as well as for consulting services and the exercise of construction supervision with three separate positions. For a separate item 1, including a service tunnel at the northern tunnel portal, Zheleznitsa is contracted as of 16 October 2018 for design and construction. The term of the contract starts from 18 March 2019 and, as of March 2019, there is also a contract for consulting services and the exercise of construction supervision in design and construction. At present, no physical progress has been made. For position 2 a contract for design and construction was concluded in February 2019 with contractor 444 thousand. BGN 444. There has been since 26 February a contract with the subject of "Supervision of the design and construction of the highway "Struma" which is actually a tunnel "Zeleznitsa". For a separate item 3 there is a contract of September 2018 for design and construction with a PSD group worth 22 million. lv. Pursuant to an additional agreement of 9 January 2019, the deadline starts from 18 March 2019 and also a contract for consulting services has been concluded as of March. The Kresna Gorge is about to launch Lot 3.2. The value of the Lot 3.2 project is 1 billion. The Commission 934 thousand. 452 lv. with VAT. Of them are available under Axis 2 of Operational Programme 184,000. BGN 993. with VAT. The remaining funds will be provided by the state budget. The application form for Lot 3.2 of the highway is in preparation and is pending its procedure for approval by the Managing Authority of the Programme and by the European Commission. For the construction of these two subdivisions we provide for the complete completion of Struma Motorway in 2023. In order to complete the Trans-European Corridor No 4 in the territory of Bulgaria in the direction in which the highway is the Struma Motorway, we are also going to build the section Vidin "Montana" for Northwestern Bulgaria. The project is divided into the following sections: Vidin There is a technical design for the site. In parallel with the procedure of the detailed development plan a parcel plan will be announced and a procedure will be carried out for the award of the construction. In order to shorten the deadlines, the tender procedures will be announced in the first half of 2019 and the project will be divided into the following positions: separate position 1 Regarding the sections of Ruzhintsi, Montana and Montana, Vratsa, the technical project was designed only for the section of Ruzhintsi, Montana, and for the section of Montana, Vratsa was developed and adopted by the Technical Council of the API only a preliminary project. The preparation of the project: road 1-1 Vidin "Montana" Vratsa is implemented under Operational Programme "Transport and Transport Infrastructure", Priority axis 5 "Technical assistance", funded by the European Regional Development Fund. Great is the mobilisation for the realization of the project from Mezdra to Botevgrad. The Commission's decision to select a contractor for additional design and construction with an indicative value of 214 million is expected. Five hundred and sixty thousand. lv. with VAT on Lot 1 of the Project, Lot 2 Mezdra "Botevgrad" with a length of 13,43 km. The beginning of Lot 2 is at km 161, road Mezdra "Vratsa." The end of Lot 2 is at km 174+800 near the tour of the village of Lyutidol. The Commission's decision to select a contractor for additional design and construction with indicative value of 147 million is expected. Six hundred thousand. lv. with VAT on the road Mezdra.. Botevgrad 1 Lot 1 with a length of 19,36 km. Lot 1 is the beginning of the village of Lyutidol, and its end is before Botevgrad. If the decisions are not appealed, the construction will begin immediately after contracts with the selected contractors are concluded. Another key project is the construction of the new highway of Europe. For the design and construction of the site "Modernization" on road 1-8 Kalotina "Sofia ring road from km 1 to 15+500 with a length of 14,5 km, there was a contract of 16 November 2018 worth 164 million. 990 thousand. BGN 259. with VAT. There is a choice of contractor for the consulting service in relation to design and construction. On February 15th, a contract was signed with Transconsult, worth 9,000. £240. with VAT to carry out a road safety audit of the Project. The indicative total value is just over 177 million. Part of the funding is financed under the Connecting Mechanism for Europe, the Transport Sector. The approved funding is 40 million. 258 thousand. BGN 818. with VAT, according to a decision of the Council of Ministers the other funds for the overall implementation of the project are planned to be provided by the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. On 21 December 2018, for the preparation of a technical project and construction of the road 1-8 Dragoman Three hundred and BGN 358. with VAT. The alienation procedures for the direct route of the object have been completed. The decision to elect a consultant is currently being appealed. In case there is no appeal before you, a contract will be signed after a decision of the KPC. The period of construction works is 730 calendar days. The construction must be completed 2021. The most important project, which has been under operation since the first day of the government and for which the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Road Infrastructure Agency is committed, is the completion of the Motorway. A strict schedule of activities and deadlines has been drawn up for its completion. I am convinced that with its respect and good organization it is completely realistic until 2024 to have a fully built highway from Sofia to Varna. Hemus Motorway will perform the functions of major road communication in Northern Bulgaria, which will provide the connections of the capital and major urban centres and will improve the accessibility of infrastructure sites of international importance. Since last year, a total of over 25 km from the northern highway are already in active performance. This is the section from Yablanitsa to the road node of Boaza and the section between the road node of Belokopitovo and the road node of Bukovo. For the site, which is between Yablanitsa and Boaza, there is a contract from 2017 for the implementation of the construction works. To date, we have 75% total execution of the object. It's 910 days. For the section km 16 between Buchovtsi and Belokopitovo, there is a contract. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm just gonna say a few words out of time. Thank you, Madam President. In December 2017, additional expenditure on the Ministry of Regional Development's budget of nearly 1 billion has been approved. 350 million. lv. with VAT for the construction of the section from Boaz to the road hub Ruse "Veliko Tarnovo". It's divided into six precincts. All sections shall be operated and the first three of them shall have technical projects drawn up. For sections 4, 5, 6 "Pleven" "Lovech" "Ruse" "Veliko Tarnovo," contracts have been concluded to update and supplement the detailed planning plans. The period for the implementation of this activity shall be 45 days. The Ruse station is divided into three subdivisions in order to ensure optimal, design and field security. For the two sub-divisions covering the Ruse direction For the third subdivision from road 2-51 to road hub "Buhovtsi" where the section of the motorway begins, from the beginning of 2019 a contractor has been chosen to update and supplement the detailed design plans.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u136	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Perhaps you could supplement the information.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u137	That's because the roads, highways and roads are too many. Thank you for your opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u138	We'll start by asking the questions. The first question will be raised by the parliamentary group of GERB. Mr. Tashkov, you have the floor to ask the first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u139	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question is related to the key road sites in the Republic of Bulgaria, namely the highway In connection with the enormous increase in heavy traffic and the heavy operation of these highways, key road arteries of Bulgaria are observed in certain sections of the motorways wear of road covers, violation of the structures of certain sections and road facilities. With the winter season over and the start of the active construction season, the Ministry, and respectively the Road Infrastructure Agency, have the opportunity to take action to restore certain road sections. Naturally, I appreciate the efforts made by the Road Infrastructure Agency, but so far several such sections are being observed after Plovdiv, Stara Zagora, especially at Trakia Motorway. Are you going to take any action to restore these road sections? Do you have a particular resource that can be put into place to improve the performance of road arteries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u140	Thank you, Mr. Tashkov. Minister Avramova, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u141	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Tashkov, really the highways of Thrace and Hemus are main road directions with the most intensive traffic, which in most part is heavy, and therefore it is very important that these road sections and facilities are maintained in good operational condition. The Republican Road Network, including their facilities, shall be monitored by the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Institute of Roads and Bridges and action shall be taken after finding problems. You know that in 2018 all bridge facilities, viaducts and tunnels that are on both highways were reviewed. At the present time, a new review of all facilities has been made in January this year and has been prioritized to be restored and repaired in 2019. At the highway. In January this year, a new review of all facilities has been made of all facilities and are prioritized, you know that there are constantly problems with the passage; viaduct at km 36, km 37, tunnel For the highway of Trakiya. In 2019, a Viaduct should be repaired at km 13 to right, upper and lower construction, at km 15 and at km 20, and the total value of the expert assessment for repairing the reconstruction works is 127 million. 194,000. BGN, with no funding available for these sites at present and for them we will look further from the state budget. The following facilities and road sections in need of repair are additionally identified: the steel viaduct at 35 km at the "Hemus", the "Trakiya" bridge at the 87th, at the 99th, at the 117th km, the railway overpass at 125 km, the 126th At present, the renovation activities of five sites of the highway continue: - viaduct at km 19, left and right lane and poles respectively, deadline for completion of December 2019; - viaduct at the 36th km... Korenishki dol, left and right lane and poles 3, 4, 5 and 6, and the deadline for completion is 2019; - works also at viaduct at 37 km, 37 920, 51 km; - on 18 March the repair of 10 km from the highway "Hemus", the canvas in the direction of Sofia. This is the section between the road hub "Neofit Rilski " and the estacada "Devnya". The movement is carried out in two directions in the canvas for Varna and the speed is limited to 90. It is necessary to drive carefully in compliance with the temporary movement organisation. At the time of the highway, Trakia is continuing repair activities of seven sites. One of them is the bridge over the river Elshishka at 89 km. The renovation activities of the other sites are continuing the repair of asphalt floorings on Trakia Motorway, with the duration of completion of May 2019. The funds needed for the financial payment of the buildings implemented in the previous period and for the provision of ongoing and future repair works under Trakia and Hemus will amount to 225 million. lv. We are making every effort to secure the financing and award of repairs in order to bring facilities and sections into good operational condition. I note that all measures taken, including the restriction of traffic for a certain period, are for the safety of passengers and the safety of motorways for passengers on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u142	Thank you, dear Minister. It is obvious that there will be no question from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Next, a question from the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs." Here you go, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! At the end of last year, a new 24km section of the highway was opened between the municipalities of Kresna and Sandanski. This largely, undoubtedly, eased not only traffic in the area, but also created much better, optimal conditions for faster and safer movement of both people and goods. In this new 24km section was built the so-called intelligent transport system to include relevant information elements with a view to the safety of the movement of this new section, such as electronic information signs, electronic signals, electronic information on weather conditions and some others. In this regard, my question to you is: what is essentially this system, has it already been put into operation and which elements are already in operation in this new 24km section of Struma Motorway? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u144	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Stoyanov, ladies and gentlemen! This is a very interesting question because for the first time in our country there is an intelligent transport system in the division between Kresna and Sandanski. It is part of the intelligent transport system, which will cover the entire Lot 3 of Struma Motorway from Blagoevgrad to Sandanski. In Bulgaria this is the first of its kind system and will include all sections within the scope of Lot 3 An intelligent transport system is built in the section between Kresna and Sandanski and includes traffic counting and control stations, video surveillance, vehicle weight measurement and meteorological surveillance. Video surveillance cameras are located on the road nodes..Sandanski. and Strumyani.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. A number of traffic points have been installed in four locations and road stations for measuring the vehicle's weight in motion are located in two. There are also two weather stations in the area that will take into account the temperature, humidity, type and quality of precipitation, visibility of the road, speed and direction of the wind, thickness of the water layer on the asphalt, the freezing point of the pavement depending on the treatment with chemicals, the surface temperature of the road, and 5 cm below the asphalt. Measures have been taken to build another weather station in the area with prevailing mists. The project for intelligent transport system provides for the construction of a common control centre for traffic management throughout the section of the highway It will start work after the completion of the construction of the section between Blagoevgrad and Krupnik, as the construction of the center is provided for in the tender documentation of Lot 3.1 by Struma Motorway. Only construction of road stations and their adjacent infrastructure is included in Lot 3.3 documentation. Since the construction of Lot 3.3 ended early and in order for the system built in the section to work independently, provided Lot 3.1 is still under construction, at the beginning of October 2018, the Road Infrastructure Agency (Railway Infrastructure) launched a procedure for the award of a public contract for the repair of a temporary control centre in the building of Blagoevgrad District, and we foresee that this procedure will be completed at the end of April 2019. In addition, an intelligent transport system will be developed and implemented on the highway of Trakia. On 19 March two offers for choice of contractor were opened. The indicative value is just over 7 million. lv. without VAT and the project will be co-financed by Operational Programme "Transport and Transport Infrastructure." A unique system for automatic identification of incidents is intended to be built in a tunnel. It will allow through a system of mobile barriers in the event of an accident in one pipe traffic to be redirected on the other. The facility will have new LED lighting, electronic information plates, traffic lights, horizontal and vertical signalling, weather stations at the portals. 40 electronic information plates will be installed on the highway, and drivers will have information about an event on the road, which is fast, reliable and high-tech opportunity for timely notification of the current road situation. During the implementation of the project, cameras for measuring average speed, monitoring the traffic of the defined section will be installed. The aim is to increase the safety of movement and to comply with speed limits. Another novelty is the installation of vehicle weighing sensors on the road. This will allow to filter overloaded vehicles and allow for faster and more effective checks. It is thus expected to significantly reduce the wear and damage to road surface and highway facilities. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works through the Road Infrastructure Agency provides for the construction and introduction of intelligent transport systems on all highways in Bulgaria and the aim is directly related to increasing the safety of motor vehicle traffic, respecting the European Union directives in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u146	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u147	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the question of the DPS parliamentary group to you is about the highway. Although you partly answered the question, we insist on sharpening your attention to this important problem for Bulgaria. In the section between Chirpan and Stara Zagora, which is 40 km long, and due to the unevenness of the road from September last year to today, a speed limit of 90 km/h was introduced. Since then, dear Minister, it has been almost six months and the users of this road section between Chirpan and Stara Zagora in both directions have been dissatisfied, and for good reason, because it is not the speed limit, but the urgent repair that is the solution to the problem. Trakia Highway, honourable colleagues, the Minister, is a key road artery for the whole of Bulgaria and is probably the most intensive traffic. Keep in mind that the start of the tourist season is coming up. Even at a speed of 90 km/h, mostly in the right lane, travelers on the road section risk their lives and health, and at best risk crushing their cars. In this regard, my question to you is: how much longer will the restriction last, and when will the section between Chirpan and Stara Zagora be repaired, as the introduction of a restriction, the filming with mobile cameras of the DMV and the punishment of drivers does not solve the problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u148	Thank you, dear Mr. Ali. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ali, ladies and gentlemen! The Road Infrastructure Agency and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works take into account the inconveniences that this road section creates, as well as the restriction that is imposed to prevent accidents and for the safety of travelers. The measure introduced at 90 km/h actually played its role and there is a significant reduction in the number of registered traffic accidents. The problem with this section between Chirpan and Stara Zagora is that it is reported by the road experts, by the experts of the Road Infrastructure Agency. So we must very clearly define the technology and scope for carrying out repairs on the direct route, for which we are aware that urgent and urgent repairs are needed. The indicative value of this repair is about 60 million. lv. In the budget of the Agency, we could not separate it as a separate funding facility, so we will look for opportunities for direct funding from the state budget. We are also exploring the legal possibility to make a different restriction in both lanes, so that in one lane, in which the bumps are found, the limit of 90 km remains, and to think about an increase in speed in the forward lane, which has no defects on the road lane, so that we do not make travelers who are able to drive at a higher speed in the forward lane. It is to be determined precisely the technology for carrying out the repair activities and strengthening the road construction with road experts, with road engineers, and to determine whether it is possible and appropriate to distinguish the speed of movement in both road lanes, which will make it easier for those travelling in this direction between Chirpan and Stara Zagora before we have carried out the repairs. Our desire is to start these activities in 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u150	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Next is a question from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodolists. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u151	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, in your opening statement you have answered in part the question which I will now ask, but still perhaps a little more in detail. As we know, for the construction of the highway of Hemus (Hemus Motorway) from the road hub of Boaza (Boaza) to the road I-5 Ruse (Veliko Tarnovo) last year was awarded 1.35 billion. lv. from the Republican budget. Please provide us with more detailed information about the terms of the project and construction, the highway of Hemus in this area, and is there a problem with the expropriation of properties along the future highway that would slow down the processes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u152	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Hristov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, in the answer to the basic question, I have affected the sections that will be repaired with the government's targeted funds of almost 1 billion. 350 million. BGN, I will now give you information that is complementary and concerning the road sections where we are most ready and we can start construction activities at the nearest time. Currently, a technical project is being developed for the first subdivision of km 87+800 until crossing with road III- 307, including a road hub with a total length of 15,26 km, and by order is authorised the development of a Detailed Development Plan and Plot Plan for the whole section and the same is expected to be submitted for consideration and approval by the National Expert Council. Upon approval of the Plot Plan and after prior implementation of the approval order, a building permit may be issued. In the section from km 94 to km 94+960 to km 96+600 only municipal properties are affected. We predict that at the beginning of April there will be a permit for it and start construction activities. For the section from the road hub to the road hub "Slavyanovo" with a length of 19.2 km, the construction of a technical project is completed by seven months ahead of the provisions of the Design Treaty. By order is permitted the development of a detailed development plan, Plot Plan, as in the section from km 126+780 to 127+100 field, which affects two properties of state property and one private property, could proceed to issue a building permit, as the Plot Plan is expected to be submitted for approval by the National Expert Council on a structure in the territory at the beginning of April. We expect construction activities to be able to start at the end of April if the indicated steps are implemented. The indicative value for both objects will be able to be determined after designing the projects. Finally, I would like to express my confidence that the implementation of the entire project is going well and there is a mobilisation at expert and political level. You mentioned a moment ago what slows down the implementation of all major infrastructure projects in Bulgaria. The alienation procedures that take a long time to process. The Ministry is in the process of making a proposal that we will provide you with for consideration and discussion to allow for prior execution before the final completion of the court cases in appeal of the assessments of alienated properties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u154	Thank you, dear Minister. We continue with the second round of questions to Minister Avramova. From the parliamentary group of GERB come in, Mr. Dinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u155	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister, about a year ago in the construction of Lot 3.1 from Struma Motorway from Blagoevgrad to Krupnik, near Blagoevgrad, archeologists came across an archaeological site. This has given rise to quite a public and media interest. Construction in the same area has been temporarily suspended. At the same time, an expert council was created, which had to find the best solution in order, of course, to preserve archaeological values and, at the same time, to continue the construction of the section in question from Struma Motorway. In this regard, my question is also to you: would you provide us with information on the implementation of the commitments of the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works in connection with the relocation and conservation of archaeological finds, and would this temporary suspension of the construction of the section in question by Struma Motorway be caught up by the contractor so that Lot 3.1 can be completed within the time limit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u156	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinev. Madam Minister, please answer Mr. Dinev's question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u157	Thank you, Madam President. The implementation of the said section is carried out according to the agreed deadlines as some delay is made in the implementation of the section from Blagoevgrad to the village of Zheleznitsa in relation to the open archaeological site. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Road Infrastructure Agency are working actively to solve the problem as quickly as possible, such as the Road Infrastructure Agency. This project is already ready, such as the Road Infrastructure Agency. It strictly complies with all the provisions and decisions of the Specialized Expert Council for the Protection of Real Cultural Values at the Ministry of Culture, namely: Within a short period of time, the preparation of the Project for the relocation and field conservation of archaeological values with an exposition value, part of the archaeological site. Two of these works will be moved and preserved, and the Roman bath and villa, which are outside the route of Struma Highway, will be preserved. During August last year the Agency presented at a meeting of the Specialized Expert Council a proposal for the relocation of archaeological structures and based on it was prepared a project of On 25 February, it was also reviewed by an expert council. An order for its approval by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is to be issued. However, the Road Infrastructure Agency took further action to protect archaeological finds from adverse weather during the past winter, with the tomb and all the walls covered with geotextil to protect themselves from low temperatures and precipitation. A preliminary indicative graphic plan is expected in April this year to carry out the work on the relocation and conservation of archaeological structures. There is a certain delay in carrying out a lot, so the deadline for its implementation is likely to be postponed except because of the archaeological excavations found and because of the movement of three kilometers at the end of the track because of the approval of the Lot 3.2 route and its displacement. I hope the construction works will go as now with the full mobilization of the builders, and the site will be completed 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u158	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u159	Madam President, Madam Minister, colleagues! I have listened carefully to what my colleagues have commented on as questions and your answers, Madam Minister. From them I understood the following: the state takes good care of its infrastructure, however, in certain parts of the Thracian highway that exists, and for the Hemus, which, for God's sake, will happen. I want to ask you this: do you have information, do you take measures and actions on the Northeast region? This question will divide it into two sub-questions "one at regional level, the other at national level." On the regional level, I would like to get a response from you, and not just me, but all the people who live around Dobrich and Albena Resort Complex, where the burden of the Dobrich road is an average of around 2500 cars and buses per day, carrying hundreds of thousands of tourists throughout the season. Last year it started with great efforts by our colleagues and colleagues from GERB, representatives from the region, a pseudoremont that ended in half, and then in the rest of half of 9 km appeared some lunar craters who stood all summer. All the people were forced to travel through these craters because, unknownly for what reasons, the company, which was designated as a contractor, disappeared, just evaporated like smoke, and went to another region to finish, for some unknown reason, what orders, some other order. We think it's bullshit with the Dobrudjans! My second question at the national level is: what can you tell me about the Black Sea Highway, for which there is a legal economic analysis already in 2013 and there is a solution to be granted a concession? What are the government's actions on this highway, which is part of Pan-European Corridor No. 8? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u160	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u161	Thank you, Madam President. I accept this issue as a representation of the problem that is actually being dealt with. Yeah, I know. All my colleagues from this area have repeatedly come to me, repeatedly signaled about this area. I know that it is not finished, and I assure you that 2019 those miles that have remained to finish off the road Dobrich In connection with the Black Sea Highway, there are several sites in the country, large road sites that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and Government have the idea of being proposed on the principle of public-private partnership. One of them is the Black Sea Highway, the other are Ruse Currently there is no apparent interest from investors specifically for the Black Sea Highway. This is one of those for the construction of Ruse "Veliko Tarnovo" and the tunnel under "Shipka". We'll look for opportunities. In the exhibition that I did at the beginning, and all the questions that were asked and in my answers, I tried to give full information about the large infrastructure sites in Bulgaria, which carry great values with them with their implementation. With the resources that can be allocated from the state budget, and with the funds under various operational programs Agency for Road Infrastructure and the Ministry, we are trying to make sure that Bulgaria has a highway ring as soon as possible, such as the Black Sea Motorway is part of this ring, to have good and speedy roads and highways in North Bulgaria as a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u162	Thank you, dear Minister. There will be no movement for rights and freedoms from the parliamentary group. And from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Patriots there is no question. I give the floor to the hearing of Minister Avramova. Mr. Tsvetanov, please come on behalf of GERB's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u163	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, this debate is extremely useful to us and this hearing that we did today because it is evident that the priorities of the Bulgarian government continue to be implemented in the respective stages for the continuation and completion of the highway ring with which you completed just now. It is extremely important that the Tol system will give additional financial resources, which will be able to meet the relevant commitments. Annual 330 million BGN, which are from the Republican budget, will now be a commitment from the Tol system to be collected in the amount of about one billion. This, of course, gives us much more safety, much more business, much more development of the regions, because we know that in order to create new jobs in order to have an investor interest in given settlements, everyone looks at what is the infrastructure and what are the connections that can be made between the relevant regions. What is extremely important for us and thank you for stressing it, and you also had the opportunity to expose the position of the Bulgarian government, this is Northwest Bulgaria and the road highway, which is from Vidin to Botevgrad, because we know that at the moment the biggest concentration of heavy road accidents is the road in the section between Botevgrad and Mezdra. We are glad that the procedure has already started, two lots are divided, which are currently in procedure. We hope that within 2023 we will have the opportunity for a safer road infrastructure for residents from Vratsa, Vidin and Montana to live and travel more calmly and freely on Bulgarian roads. What is extremely important and here it should be noted that the Bulgarian government's revenue agencies managed to generate a serious surplus last year, which enabled us to make the process irreversible for the section to Veliko Tarnovo by highway. I believe that with the government's provision of 1 billion. 350 million. lv. We are given the opportunity to say that in 2022 we will have the section that will make the other extremely important connection between Ruse and Veliko Tarnovo. We all know about the serious concentration of serious traffic accidents in this increased traffic that comes from Romania and goes to Romania, passing through the town of Byala, we know how many human lives that have been given all these years. That is why I want to thank you and know that the Bulgarian Parliament and all the parliamentary groups that come to work will support you, because this is the best that there can be for Bulgaria, and this is the dream of many Bulgarian citizens who have always said that infrastructure is the artery for an organism and the artery for the economy of the state. That is why I believe that everyone who came out years ago and said that asphalt is not being eaten, now there is no place not to talk about improving infrastructure and the connection that is extremely important between small towns and large settlements. This means that the government will make the most of it, as with the policies it makes for the revenue agencies more resource, the system that will also help, but here it is extremely important to say that our country today is appreciated extremely well, because in the new financial programming period, which is envisaged for 2021, we will have about 4 billion. lv. more on operational programmes, and this means that for cohesion policy we will also have more resources that will enable the Bulgarian municipalities to benefit from the improvement of precisely this connectivity and most of the investments that can be made. We can also take into account today the lowest levels of unemployment, but we can also say that the economic growth we have in recent years and the European Commission's forecast to be in the top five countries of the European Union with economic growth 3.6 means that we are actually moving in the right direction. I would like to thank you for your time and for this meaningful debate that we have had in the Bulgarian Parliament today, and the questions that have been asked by all the parliamentary groups so that both the public and the MPs, when returning to their electoral areas, can inform their voters of the actions and policies taken, which will take place in the four-year term of office, together with the United Patriarchs. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u164	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Here you are, Mr. Veselinov, for attitude on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u165	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, there was a meaningful debate today because Bulgarian society must know a lot of the things that are happening, let's say, behind the mask of scandals. Many and often talk about how there are no reforms, how there is no progress in many areas. I think the area of regional development is one of the areas that categorically disprove this. We refuted it with the introduction of the Tol system, with the adoption of the necessary legal basis, we disproved it when the government was drawn up and the negotiations for its formation, when the fact of the uneven development of our country was put at the heart of the debate, that the systematic targeting of investments in only a small part of the territory of the country led to economic revival in this part, but also condemned the rest of the economic slowdown. I remember that in the last term of parliament "The Forty-third National Assembly," I had a question to the former Minister of Regional Development about the ratio of investment in road infrastructure between North and South Bulgaria. Then came out a crushing figure.. ratio of one to six in favor of the South to the North. In this term of office the will of this government was stated. The will of GERB and the United Patriarchs, this logical concentration of investments to be overcome. Then I remember that Minister Pavlova told me that it needed 7 billion. lv. and we will make the key structure in Northern Bulgaria. Now you can see that about half of this resource is already drawn and reserved for the highway to happen in order for the road from Botevgrad to Vidin to happen. There are several major projects without which the infrastructure in Northern Bulgaria will not be complete. We all know how important it is to connect Ruse with Veliko Tarnovo, i.e. to the highway of Hemus, turning all the way from the border to the Greek capital into a highway. Looking often at our inner sections, we forget that we are part of international corridors, and in fact this could be an extremely lucrative source if we build the right routes and, accordingly, point the right loads at them. I think this will happen, and it will happen literally within the next four or five years. In this regard, Madam Minister, you have our support. In fact, everyone in your place would have it because these are the national interests of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-21.u166	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. From the parliamentary group of the DPS and the Volley? It's not gonna be relevant. We should thank Minister Avramova for her participation in today's hearing. Parliamentary control announcements for 22 March 2019, Friday: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will answer three questions from the MPs Veselin Mareshki "two questions; and Veselin Mareshki and Plamen Hristov. 2. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov will answer a question from the MP Radostin Tanev. 3. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov will answer two questions from the MPs Ivan Valkov; and Krasen Krastev. 4. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer five questions from the MPs Kalin Vassilev; Boryana Georgieva; Radoslava Chekanska; Teodora Georgieva; and Daniela Daritkova. 5. Culture Minister Boel Banov will answer two questions from the National Representative Diana Savateva. 6. The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer a question from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question written by the National Representative Elena Axieva; - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Dora Hristova; and to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a question from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev; - two questions from the MPs Atanas Stoyanov; and Daniela Dimitrova to the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov; - two questions from the National Representative Krastina Taskova to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov. In the absence of the country, the Deputy Prime Minister of Justice and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting; the Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov; the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev; and the Minister of Economy Emil Karanikov. Due to the exhaustion of today's agenda, colleagues, I am adjourned. Tomorrow's regular session, 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
