ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, before we proceed with today's agenda, I will present a message: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 86, para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly we withdraw the draft decision on a change in the composition of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Colleagues, the first item for today's agenda is: This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 16 December 2019. The first report belongs to the Committee on Environment and Water, it is also the only one. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u2	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that Mrs. Atanaska Nikolova be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u3	Please vote on the proposal so made. Vote 150 MPs: 141, no objection, abstention 9. The proposal has been accepted. Invite the lady to the Chamber. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u4	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the Ministry of Environment and Water of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 28 September 2016, signed on 4 December 2019, No 902-02-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 December 2019. At its meeting held on 18 December 2019, the Environment and Waters Commission examined a Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the Ministry of Environment and Water of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 28 September 2016, signed on 4 December 2019, No 902-02-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 December 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Environment and Water: Mrs. Atanaska Nikolova Deputy Minister, and Mr. Vladimir Angelov Deputy Director-General of the Operational Program. The bill was presented by Mrs. Atanaska Nikolova. The aim of the Agreement is to provide assistance to the Ministry of Environment and Water for the development of the National Atmospheric Air Quality Programme and the National Air Pollution Control Programme. The Agreement expires on 28 December 2019. It is necessary to extend the end date of the Agreement by five months, which is until 31 May 2020. Currently, the two main activities relating to the development of national programmes have been implemented. The extension is for the purpose of implementing the last activity under the Agreement relating to increased capacity and institutional coordination and commitment. There are objective reasons for the delay in implementing the schedule to the Agreement. The second of the two programmes, namely the National Air Pollution Control Programme, was adopted in September this year and a period of training of the institutions, local authorities, NGOs, business and scientific community is needed for the adequate implementation of the priorities in these programmes. The other reason is related to the selection of local authorities and new teams at local level. The agreement is financed by funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds provided through the Operational Programme "Environment 2014 - 2020 "The envisaged amendment of the Agreement is without prejudice to the general budgetary framework of the project and does not require additional funding. According to the bill, the national representative Mr. Atanas Kostadinov took the position, who pointed out that the time limits for individual activities overlap over time and need to be more closely monitored by the Managing Authority for their compliance. The question was asked: is this a new activity and where does the funding for it come from? The importers made it clear that there is a logical consistency in the implementation of the activities and that the deadlines are consistent with them. The activities under point (a) of paragraph 1 shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down in point (a) of Article 3 (1). 8 is not new but represents the final stage of implementation of the Agreement. Accordingly, the project budget does not change and no additional funds are added. After the vote, the Committee on Environment and Waters, with 15 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the Ministry of Environment and Water of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 28 September 2016, signed on 4 December 2019, No 902-02-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 December 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! In accordance with the Protocol to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, this Regulation should enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 22 of Protocol No 38 of a meeting of the Council of Ministers of 13 September 2016 on 28 September 2016 in Sofia was signed an Agreement on the provision of advisory services on support for air quality management between the Ministry of Environment and Water and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 4 million. 56,000. BGN 566. The aim of the Agreement is to provide assistance to the Ministry of Environment and Water for the development of the National Atmospheric Air Quality Programme and the National Programme for the reduction of total annual emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds, fine particulate matter and ammonia in the ambient air to focus the efforts of the country to improve the air quality and achieve the targets for emissions of harmful substances in the ambient air in the context of the European Union Clean Air Policy Package. The following activities are defined for the fulfilment of the objectives: local air quality management; compliance with European Union legislation on air quality; national emission targets in compliance with the requirements of the revised Directive on national emission ceilings and institutional coordination and commitment. The Agreement shall expire on the 36th month from the date of its entry into force, which shall expire until 28 December 2019. According to a letter from the Permanent Representation of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in Bulgaria, received at the Ministry of Environment and Water in connection with the proposed Plan for capacity building for implementation of Activity No 3 "Institutional coordination and commitment" a list of comprehensive and practical activities for capacity building as well as for communication at central and local level is agreed. In this regard, there is a need to extend the end date of the Agreement by five months, namely until 31 May 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Todorova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. Colleagues, we're going to vote. I put to the first vote a bill ratifying the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the Ministry of Environment and Water of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 28 September 2016, signed on 4 December 2019, No 902-02-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 December 2019. They voted 150 MPs: for 106, against none, abstentioned 44. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Vassileva, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u8	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose that the bill adopted at first reading be subject to a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u9	Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 149 MPs: 106 against 7, abstention 36. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u10	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! In accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation, any revenue will be used to provide additional appropriations under this article in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation. A single member. Ratiated the amendment of the Agreement on the provision of consulting services between the Ministry of Environment and Water of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 28 September 2016, signed on 4 December 2019. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u11	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. Colleagues, speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the Ratification presented at second reading. Vote 160 MPs: 115 against 1, abstention 44. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we move to the second item of today's agenda: FIRST VOICE OF: - THE LAW FOR REPEATING THE LAW FOR SOCIAL SERVICES. Importers supplied by Desislav Chukolov and a group of MPs, 6 November 2019; - THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR SOCIAL SERVICES. Importer "Sayev Angel, 21 November 2019; and - LAW PROJECTS FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW ON SOCIAL SERVICES. Importers - Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, 4 December 2019; Elena Pesheva and Boryana Georgieva, 13 December 2019 First, with the reports of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, Mr. Ademov will introduce us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u12	Thank you, Madam President. I am making a procedural proposal to allow Mrs. Zornitsa Rusinova to be admitted to the Chamber "Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy," Mrs. Elena Kremenliva and Mrs. Jonah Germanova "Experts in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u13	Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 132 MPs: 126, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please invite Deputy Minister Rusinova to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u14	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the annulment of the Social Services Act submitted by Desislav Chukolov and a group of MPs The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 18 December 2019 discussed and discussed the Draft Law repealing the Social Services Act submitted by Desislav Chukolov and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy: Denitsa Sacheva, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Zornitsa Rusinova and Lazar Lazarov, and experts from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy; from the Agency for Social Assistance: Rumyana Petkova Chairman, and experts from the same Agency. The bill was presented by the MP Desislav Chukolov. At the beginning of the presentation, he said that the Social Services Act was adopted in a hurry, without serious public discussion and that even before its entry into force a number of its weaknesses had begun to emerge. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u15	Please, colleagues, it's very noisy in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u16	The Bill's contributors are of the opinion that, through its numerous amendments to other 29 laws, the Law runs counter to established public relations. A good attempt has been made to improve social services in various sectors, but as a result of the Law there will be severe problems. In several of the texts of the Law on Social Services, regulation and philosophy are laid down, which is laid down in the non-compliances and stopped for development Strategy for the child. In this regard, there is extremely serious public tension and discontent. Citizens organize protests and marches, which inevitably also apply to the law on social services that has not yet entered into force. The law favours, and this is one of its main objectives, NGOs who have stood at the entrance and exit in anticipation of state funding from the next state budget for 2020. For all the reasons set out, importers believe that the best way to pin down the negatives expected by the Social Services Act is to cancel it entirely before its entry into force on 1 January 2020. A preliminary impact assessment has been applied to the Bill. It points out that the Social Services Act has not yet entered into force, it is not possible to make such an assessment. Information was received in the Commission from the meeting of the Permanent Committee on Income and Living Level of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. It made it clear that everyone who attended the meeting unanimously did not support the Bill. The Commission received opinions from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Agency for Social Assistance, the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Opinion of the Holy Synod of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church The Minister of Labour and Social Policy defended the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, stressing that importers did not state in-depth arguments why a whole law should be repealed. The reasons presented by the MPs are only statements that are not based on detailed analysis and show that the legislation in force in Bulgaria in the field of social services and child protection has not been known for many years. The Social Services Act aims at ensuring equal access to social services that meet the individual needs of persons; ensuring the quality and effectiveness of social services; ensuring the right of every person to support living in a home environment and in the community; promoting an integrated approach to providing support to persons, as well as promoting and developing public-private partnership in the provision of social services. It is not clear from the reasons of the importers why these objectives are not achieved by the adopted law. The opinions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Agency for Social Assistance and the majority of NGOs are not supporting the bill. With numerous arguments in essence the Bulgarian Orthodox Church supports the Bill. The opinion of the Political Party is also supportive. The bill is supported by the "Freedom" association for each and every law-abiding group of parents (parents united for children) and others. In their opinion they have written that the Law on Social Services represents a bright and flagrant manifestation of the desire to change the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria by changing the legal framework of family relations through regulatory and sub-normative acts with lower legal and binding powers. On this issue, the Constitutional Court must inevitably be called upon, and while the case is pending before it, the entry into force of the Social Services Act must be postponed. The Social Services Act further violates the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and other binding international legal acts. In the discussion took part the MPs Svetlana Angelova, Pavel Shopov, Georgi Gokov, Kalin Popovski, Milko Nedyalkov, the importers of the Bill and more than 20 representatives of NGOs. The debates discussed the principles laid down in the Social Services Act and the benefits it will bring to users of social services. It also discussed texts which, according to some of the participants in the discussion, contradict the Constitution and some international treaties and documents, as well as weaknesses of the Law that need to be discussed again. Opinions were made that the Law has a confused philosophy and is not addressed to people who need social services. It is true that the Law has been passed by a very large majority and the understanding of the MPs is that it is necessary for all people who need help and care. However, it is also true that the Law has created and continues to create public tensions. Therefore, balance and contact points must be found between the different groups in society, specifying certain definitions and norms in it. Following the end of the discussion and the vote with results: 1 vote for... 16 votes against................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Offers the National Assembly not to support the bill for the annulment of the Social Services Act submitted by Desislav Chukolov and a group of MPs in the first vote. Next: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Services Act submitted by Angel Isaev The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at a regular meeting held on 18 December 2019 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Services Act submitted by Angel Isaev. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy: Denitsa Sacheva Minister, Zornitsa Rusinova and Lazarov Deputy Ministers and experts. The bill was presented by the MP Angel Isaev. He outlined the main reasons relating to the Social Services Act, which motivated him to submit the bill under consideration: 1. The Social Services Act poses a threat to national sovereignty and national security. This is a Law which allows local and foreign organizations with foreign funding in violation of art. 44, para. 2 of the Constitution to carry out an activity that undermines the sovereignty of our country and which could have the purpose and effect of violating the rights and freedoms of Bulgarian citizens established by the Constitution. 2. The Law on Social Services, contrary to the Constitution, cancels the right to privacy of the private and family life of the Bulgarian citizen. This is because the personal and family life of the Bulgarian citizen falls under the supervision and control of the providers of social services and they have unlimited power to receive any information. It is about extremely sensitive data that are at national security level and which cannot be freely accessible from either domestic or foreign private persons. This is directly contrary to art. 8, para. 1 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and cannot be justified by the provision of art. Paragraph 8 2 of the same Convention. There is also a contradiction with art. 7 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. 3. With the Social Services Act, the social services sector is privatized by introducing the possibility of providing social services independently and equally with the municipalities of private individuals, thereby benefiting from state coercion. The Social Services Act introduces state coercion for the provision of social services and thus makes them an obligation of the Bulgarian citizens, not their right. Turning social services into an obligation is a gross violation of the spirit and the letter of the Constitution because it introduces by law new obligations of citizens, outside those listed in the Constitution. For this there is no agreement in the Bulgarian society. Thus private social service providers acquire rights to perform state functions. This unacceptable limits the sphere of state regulation and management of public relations and extends the field of activity of private suppliers with non-public-approved activities. With the Social Services Act, the whole social services sector is practically seized by municipalities and provided entirely to private individuals. This is to the detriment of the Bulgarian citizens and inevitably has its negative consequences for the municipalities because it deprives them of the revenues for possible provided social services financed by the state budget, as well as international aid under various international treaties and cooperation mechanisms. 4. The Social Services Act allows abuse of the rights of Bulgarian citizens, in particular of the rights of children in order to use social services which the user is obliged to pay in general. This is a new form of compulsory economic enslavement of Bulgarian citizens. The aim of the submitted bill is to arrange specific public relations related to the provision, use, financing, quality, control and monitoring of social services. The bill replaces the idea of providing social services with the idea of providing social care and support entirely for the benefit of citizens. A preliminary impact assessment has been applied to the Bill. It states that the main benefits of the Bill are: - enable the use of publicly accessible social services; take into account the commitments in relation to the process of interinstitutionality; regulate the regulated approach and integrated cross-sector services by distinguishing between integrated support provision and integrated cross-sector services; regulate and right to training: supervision, mentoring, participation and at the same time obligation to participate in employee trainings and exchange of experience and good practices; standards of work; standards of pay for self-service workers and the adoption of an Ethical Code; regulate the inclusion of volunteers and students; introduce complementary standards for social services through which daily or resident care is carried out for self-service inability, for persons with aggressive and problematic behavior and for persons with the need of constant medical supervision and medical care. The Commission received information from the meeting of the Permanent Committee on Income and Vital Level of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, held on 16 December 2019. It became clear that all those attending the meeting abstained from supporting the Bill, with the exception of the representative of the KT The Commission received the opinions of the Ministry of Finance, the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and dozens of opinions from non-governmental organizations working in the field of social services as well as those related to social policy. The Ministry of Finance does not support the Bill by providing numerous motives in substance. Some of them are related to the fact that the provisions proposed by the Bill are inconsistent, problematic and unrelated and will result in disagreement with the related arrangements in other laws, by mixing the definitions of social support and a social service, without contributing essentially to the bill. The reasons for the bill are also of controversial logic, inconsistent and with a number of inaccuracies, and it can hardly be assumed that they contain part of the information required by the Law on Legislative Acts, such as the financial and other means necessary to implement the new regulation. The bill contains proposals which lead to ambiguity in the application of competition law and the common market, including European Union legislation and the right to the free movement of goods and services. There is a new reading of the Law on Social Services, changing the nature and nature of the current legislation in this area, with the proposals for change and the dropping of a large part of the provisions in the Bill. The opinions of all NGOs are negative. The discussion was attended by the MPs Svetlana Angelova, Pavel Shopov, Georgi Gokov, Kalin Popovski, Milko Nedyalkov and more than 20 representatives of NGOs. The opinion was overwhelming that the Social Services Act is a law adopted by consensus. Many institutions and NGOs participated in its development. The law has no practice to impose its amendment. The pressure on him is not entirely justified. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: no votes for... 1 vote against.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Asks the National Assembly not to support the bill amending and supplementing the Social Services Act submitted by Angel Isaev on 21 November 2019 ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending the Law on Social Services, No 954-01-84, submitted by Iskren Vasilev Veselinov and a group of MPs on 4 December 2019. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at a regular meeting held on 18 December 2019 discussed and discussed a bill amending the Social Services Act submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by: Denitsa Sacheva, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Deputy Ministers of Labour and Social Policy, Ms. Zornitsa Rusinova and Mr. Lazar Lazarov, experts from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Chairman of the Social Assistance Agency Rumyana Petkova, experts from the same Agency, Vice-President of the Agency for Child Protection Mariela Litcheva and representatives of NGOs. The bill was presented by the MP Iskren Veselinov. In the reasons for the bill, it is written that the Bill aims to postpone the operation of the Social Services Act, as conflicting opinions have increased in society and the need to refine some of the texts has emerged. The law in this version allows for the interpretation of certain norms in light which contradicts traditional values and notions of the functioning and meaning of the family as the main unit of society. The family as a collection of mothers, fathers and their children, as well as its functioning in providing a healthy environment for raising, training and education of children, should be leading in formulating and implementing all laws in the Republic of Bulgaria. The Social Services Act and the changes it imposes in the Child Protection Act and the Family Code raise valid questions precisely related to the family's foundations and its role in raising children. Therefore, this additional period is necessary to enable all the questions that have arisen to be resolved and answered. The proposed amendment aims to enable all who will fall within the scope of the Law, to express their opinions and to achieve the desired result. The bill consists of one paragraph requiring the Social Services Act to start operating from 1 July 2020. A preliminary assessment of the impact of the bill has been applied to the Bill. It states that the basis for the legislative initiative is the need to hold a discussion and refine texts from the Social Services Act. The Commission received information from the meeting of the Permanent Committee on Income and Living Level at the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, held on 16 December 2019. It became clear that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy supports the Bill, all other members refrain from support. The Commission received the opinions of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and several NGOs. The Association of Municipalities supports the Bill, the other opinions are unsupportive. In the discussion took part the MPs Svetlana Angelova, Pavel Shopov, Georgi Gokov, Kalin Popovski, Milko Nedyalkov, the importers of the Bill and more than twenty representatives of NGOs. Most of the MPs united around the thesis that the Social Services Act is extremely important for the development of the social services sector, does not affect the family relations, parenting and other traditional values of the Bulgarian society. The proposal to postpone the implementation of the Law by six months is a reasonable period of time at which some of the definitions and norms in the Law can be specified and cleared. At the same time, efforts must be made and a thorough public discussion should be held in order to eliminate the tensions and fears that the Law has created in various public groups. Opinions were also made that the Social Services Act has a vicious philosophy, extremely liberal and commercialized care for people. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 15 votes..... 1 vote................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. He proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending the Social Services Act No 954-01-84, submitted by Iskren Vasilev Veselinov and a group of MPs on 4 December 2019. The last report for the first vote shall be: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on Social Services, No 954-01-87, submitted by Elena Stefanova Pesheva and Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva on 13 December 2019. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at a regular meeting held on 18 December 2019 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending the Social Services Act submitted by Elena Stefanova Pesheva and Borjana Lyubenova Georgieva The meeting was attended by: Denitsa Sacheva, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Deputy Ministers of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova and Lazar Lazarov, experts from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Chairman of the Social Assistance Agency Rumyana Petkova, and experts from the same Agency, the Vice-President of the State Agency for Child Protection Mariela Litcheva, and representatives of NGOs. The bill was presented by the MP Elena Pesheva. The reasons for the bill are that the bill aims to postpone the implementation of the Law on Social Services adopted in March 2019. This law has caused great public discontent about the texts in it, which give a prerequisite for different interpretations. It gives too much power to NGOs, allowing them to take children out of their families. It is also disturbing that these NGOs can be registered not only in Bulgaria, but also in EU countries and outside the Union. And the fact that when they take a child out of the family, the NGO has no obligation to work with the state institutions, but can inform them what it is doing, but there is no such direct obligation. The Social Services Act and the changes it imposes in the Child Protection Act are contrary to fundamental constitutional rights and obligations of parents in raising their children. This calls into question the family values and traditions of our society. It is therefore essential that the Act be postponed during which time the opinions of all interested parties can be heard with a view to adopting adequate amendments to the Law. It is proposed that the Act be postponed by one year. A preliminary assessment of the impact of the bill has been applied to the Bill. It states that the basis for the legislative initiative is the need for broad public discussion and clarification of the contested texts. No opinions have been received in the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee on the Draft Law. The discussion was attended by the MPs Svetlana Angelova, Pavel Shopov, Georgi Gokov, Kalin Popovski, Milko Nedyalkov and more than twenty representatives of NGOs. Opinions were made that the Social Services Act meets great opposition in society and that it gives very large powers to NGOs. The law needs a re-open discussion in order to remove some of its weaknesses and become a law that only addresses people who need help, care and social services. At the end of the discussion and the vote with results: 1 vote for a vote for a vote against a vote of 18 votes for abstention, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: He proposes to the National Assembly not to support in the first vote the Law amending the Law on Social Services, No 954-01-87, submitted by Elena Stefanova Pesheva and Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva on 13 December 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. We are moving on to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports Report. Who's gonna introduce him? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports at a regular meeting held on 18 December 2019 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Services Act, No 954-01-81, submitted by the National Representative Angel Isaev on 21 November 2019. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mrs. Joanna Germanova, State Expert, and Mrs. Ivayla Kostkova, Senior Expert at the Department of Social Inclusion. In its presentation of the Draft Law, the People's Representative Angel Isaev informed the MPs that the proposed amendments and additions govern specific public relations related to the provision, use, financing, quality, control and monitoring of social services. According to the importer, the Social Services Act (promise, SG 22 March 2019, in force from 1 January 2020) poses a threat to national sovereignty and national security. With the proposed amendments and additions, the importer replaces social services with social assistance as part of social support and completely excludes non-governmental organisations as social service providers. He also stressed that social support activities financed by the state and municipal budget are provided by municipalities through self-organised or specially created legal entities by the municipality. The provision of social support activities can also be entrusted to private natural persons, but not more than 10% of the total amount of social services provided. Under the Law amending and supplementing the Social Services Act in the Commission, opinions were received signed by 49 non-governmental organizations and an opinion by the Association "Baliz" which was signed by 40 other non-governmental organizations in smaller municipalities across the country. They all do not support the presented bill. During the meeting the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in the face of Deputy Minister Lazarov expressed a negative opinion on the proposed draft. According to Mr. Lazarov, the proposed changes completely delete social services in current legislation as part of social assistance. Regarding the exclusion of non-governmental organizations from the circle of social service providers, the Deputy Minister stressed that this practice has been in force since 2003 in our legislation and the Social Services Act does not extend the range of providers. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the vote held without votes, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Services, No 954-01-81, submitted by the National Representative Angel Isaev on 21 November 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u19	Now there's another report. You, Mr. Chenchev? [[Reply.]] Before the report, you are entitled to a procedure. Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u20	Yes, of course it's a procedure, I won't abuse it, Mr. Chairman. It is to invite the starting minister Mrs. Sacheva to the Chamber on this extremely important issue in her field. We know that Mrs. Rusinova is highly prejudiced because she has participated in the preparation and writing of the Law, she has been subsided so far. I would like to see Mrs. Sacheva's position, as she expressed her opinion in the Commission and supported the procrastination of the Law, that these few months, six months, needed the Law to be explained to the people and adopted by society. She said nothing and said nothing that this law should either be repealed or extremely radical and seriously changed. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, let us do something that we have done many times to invite Mrs. Sacheva to come and stand here to answer the questions that we will ask her and I think it is not just us from Ataka. It is also from the whole room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. You have a procedure, Mrs. Angelova. I suppose if Minister Sacheva had the chance, she would have come. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My procedure is in response to the question asked by colleague Pavel Shopov. Ms. Denitsa Sacheva, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, invited protesting organizations to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy at 10:00 p.m. and is therefore not in plenary in the debate on these bills. But here in plenary is Deputy Minister Zornitsa Rusinova along with two directorates of directorates in the Social Ministry, so they will be able to take the floor at the end of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u23	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. We will still inform Minister Sacheva when there is an opportunity and when the talks with the protesters are over, we will invite her to come to the Chamber. Thank you. And the final report. Mr. Chenchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u24	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports at a regular meeting held on 18 December 2019 discussed and discussed the Draft Law for the annulment of the Social Services Act, No 954-01-76, submitted by Desisslav Slavov Chukolov and a group of MPs on 6 November 2019. The first vote. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mrs. Joanna Germanova, State Expert, and Mrs. Ivayla Kostkova, Senior Expert at the Department of Social Inclusion. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov, who pointed out that the Social Services Act adopted on 7 March 2019. The Social Services Act in force as of 1 January 2020 was adopted in a hurry and without serious public consultation, and even before its entry into force its weaknesses had come to light. The Law by means of numerous amendments to other laws is contrary to the established previously established public relations. It was clarified that in some of the texts of the Law on Social Services there was a philosophy embedded in the withdrawn draft of the Strategy for the Child. In this regard, there is extremely serious public tension and discontent. The importer stressed that the Law favours, and this is one of its main objectives, NGOs that have stood at the entrance and exit in anticipation of state funding. During the meeting Deputy Minister Lazar Lazarov expressed a negative opinion on the bill, stressing that in the Social Services Act adopted in 2019 there is no text borrowed from the withdrawn draft Strategy of the child and that NGOs are listed as providers of social services in our legislation since 2003. The Commission received opinions from: Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Agency for Social Assistance, National Network for Children, 49 NGOs related to children and people with disabilities, including the Red Cross, the Bulgarian Association for People with Intellectual Difficulties and 40 NGOs who do not support the Bill. The only opinion in favour of the annulment of the Social Services Act introduced to the Commission on Children, Youth and Sports is the Association of Young Scientists. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Vesela Lecheva and Slavcho Atanasov. Ms. Lecheva described the proposal for the annulment of the Law as wrong, as they will be deprived of social services users who currently have a legislative right. Mr. Atanasov also expressed reservations regarding the proposed bill. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the vote taken:.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. Will there be motivations for importers? Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u26	Thank you, Madam President. However, thank you for giving me the floor, because there is no such precedent for the importers of the bills not to be invited to present them.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u27	I invited you, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u28	Well, you invited me here after we decidedly and very clearly insisted, and it could have gone without it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u29	No, no. Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u30	Since yesterday, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I am not a member of this committee. [[Replications from OP.]] In this regard, the governors of GERB will not have the opportunity for an early warning about what is happening in the Commission, because there is no one else to ring the bell and worry about what was going on there. It has happened many times as a representative of the "Attack" to be the first to alarm about nonsense and pure Simeonov stuff that has happened in this committee countless times. This is what happened a few months ago when the Social Services Bill was submitted by Mrs. Sultanka Petrova. This happened against the backdrop of protests about the adoption of good regulations in relation to children with disabilities and then society failed to hold a debate on this matter. The bill was literally tucked under this package of three social laws. Such a bill, of course, is necessary and no reproach can be given for creating a new bill in relation not to social services, but to social assistance and social care. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u31	Colleagues, I'm asking for a little more silence in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u32	At that time, I made my observations in the Commission. Honourable Members, one of the mistakes of our legislative process is that the MPs do not monitor what is happening and is doing in the Council of Ministers, in the ministries for the preparation of legislative acts. This moment gets sleepy, and at some point we are surpresed and forced here in the National Assembly, literally criminally, without debate, to quickly adopt such bills, which are extremely bad. How, then, do we at Ataka know what is happening in the Council of Ministers? We had sent there a Deputy Prime Minister for these issues.. Mr. Simeonov, Sultanka Petrova as Deputy Minister in this Ministry and suddenly it is evident that this law is being introduced, which is contrary to the conservative, traditional rules, views, ideology and morality in our society and a bill is being made in the worst sense of liberal philosophy in order to feed NGOs who were actually involved in the creation of this bill. See, honourable MPs, in the Ministry of Labour and Social Care, where the Law is supposedly formally legal, and it is legal in the laboratories of New Bulgarian University and the 50 NGOs in question, which are against our law for the annulment of the Law on Social Services, in the Ministry are made in parallel to each other, with each other and in full sync, two legal acts. One is the strategy for the child, and the other is this law that we are discussing today. After the reaction in society, after the protests, the strategy for the child was stopped, but there remained this bill, which in legal form has dressed those situations, those main points that are in the Strategy for the child. That's the truth, and there's nothing to be fooled about. This strategy stands, it has been crafted something which was hidden in the "United Patriarchs" by Simeonov. Then as Deputy Prime Minister, and by Sultanka Petrova in our committee. These were some of the many reasons that created the contradictions inside... they are not interpersonal, but are related to such acts. I would list a long list of fundamentals, acts, cases, cases on which we periodically went into serious contradictions, because we from Ataka took sides with the Bulgarian employees and workers, we from Ataka and defended the social rights of the Bulgarian citizens, and Simeonov wanted, in connection with self-appointed or, come on, some existing employers' organizations, did the opposite. These were the conflicts and it came to the protests that took place throughout the country, which are the most important and important. They started from the city of Varna and went to the capital. These protests are the most important, essential and most significant after the protests a year ago in connection with the drafting of the Law governing the rights of disabled children. The people came to us, they asked for this law one to one. Our question was also raised by people in the Holy Synod. They know that we are listening to them from Ataka we always state: we are doing what is given to us as a topic, as problems, as questions from the Holy Synod. I will tell you why: because they have an expertise that is better than anyone else in Bulgaria; they always know what this is about; they have warned us that something very ugly is coming, which will become a law that will literally put into legal form the Strategy for the child, which is supposed to be stopped. Thus, we have created this law, which stands before you today, the first of the four imports, and with which we want no more, no less, but the annulment of the Social Services Act. Colleagues, in Bulgaria such a miracle of legal nature has not happened. So far, there has not been such a vicious, so sinful and so unwarranted of any law, even before the beginning of its action. Understand that! Here we are talking, again in a purely criminal way, about a change in 29 other laws. They are also damaged because of this law, as it has been passed, the infection starts through the Transitional and Final Regulations, making nonsense and turning 29 other laws from the Bulgarian legislation. Understand that! This is not just about social problems. Here we are talking deeply about the morality of the Bulgarian society, the vision of spirituality, the upbringing of the government. That is why we believe that the only way to correct this evil is to complete and complete this law and to start immediately work on the adoption of a new law to settle non-social services, because this is already a commercialisation of this area, this violates the Constitution of the country where it is said that Bulgaria is a social state, and this carries social care in the business sphere. [[Replications from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u33	Time, Mr. Shopov. [[Replications from OP.]] Let Mr. Shopov finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u34	Yeah, I'm graduating. This does things and guides them into a purely liberal sphere of thinking, of actions, of legislation something that is not Bulgaria according to its Constitution.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Another one with an importer's motive? Here you go, Mr. Siddy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we remember that this law was passed as part of a package of three social services laws adopted under pressure on the street, adopted under the pressure of the then ombudsman, later a candidate for mayor of Sofia, and was adopted in this Chamber with full consensus. I remember there were people from here who came out and said we were making a mistake because we were in a hurry with this law because you weren't fully watched, and because you actually pulled some other people out into the street. Yes, we stopped the protests of some who applauded the top of the stands, but we brought other people out into the street because, for the time when we prepared this law, we obviously failed all of us in this House, including us from the "United Patriarchs" then and our colleagues from the "Attack" were in the group of the "United Patriarchs" and we were still part of the Commission and obviously failed to finish all the texts at that time. In the last six months, a very serious campaign has really spread against this law, which has explained and hyperbolized some fears in the people in which we have heard all sorts of things: how the Norwegians who are on the border are coming to take our children; how we have sold them and so on and so forth. A very serious campaign was held, which was in a large part hyperbolized rather than part of the truth. The truth is that there are many texts in this law that could be misinterpreted. The truth is that we have opened the opportunity for non-governmental organizations to really participate in the whole process by participating in interdisciplinary teams, which decide whether a child should be removed from the family environment, to provide this social service for the raising of that child beyond its social environment. It is precisely these people's fears that are the reason we submit the Bill to postpone the entry into force of the Social Services Act by six months so that we can have a real, valuable and meaningful debate with all those people on both sides of this decision. Therefore, I thank Minister Sacheva, who is not here, who in the first days after his inauguration said that he supports our idea of delaying the Law so that we can have this debate. The point of delay is not to convince people that the law is good. The point of the delay is to be able to make enough adjustments to refine the texts and not be able to be interpreted in the way that organisations that are outside have found a way to interpret them. There was an hysteria, of course, came into the space a very serious group of organizations that are against this delay, who said: "You are doing a great deal of stupidity! "The good thing is that the anti-Bulgarian Helsinki Committee has taken the lead in this campaign, which means that we are on the right track because everything they have come up with so far as a proposal is actually a proposal against the interests of our country. Obviously, some NGOs are waiting for their funding and with the delay for these six months, we could violate their financial interest, but for us in this House it is not important. It is important the opinion of Bulgarian citizens, it is important that we manage to reassure Bulgarian citizens that what we have done makes sense. Because this law makes sense, but it must be refined both in my opinion, and in our opinion, as importers, six months is enough time to change that. Many untruths have been heard, including from this tribune, that Mr. Simeonov or that Mrs. Petrova were importers of this law. Of course, there's no such thing. It is clear to everyone the importer was the Council of Ministers, and we, as part of the ruling majority, as part of the country's governance, do not give up our responsibility, but personally someone to be juicy as the culprit is, to put it mildly, not serious. That is why I call on you to support this proposal, to postpone the entry into force of this law, to make a meaningful debate, to try to calm people on the street, to try not to oppose them to each other, because we have seen that some of the mothers of children with disabilities have come out and said, "Don't do this, because this will violate our rights, for which we have fought for a long time." On the other hand, there are other people who have their fears and concerns. Six months in our opinion is enough time to make this debate, to refine the texts and the Law to enter into force after six months with texts that cannot be interpreted in the direction of someone coming and taking your child without reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Siddy. Will we have any other comments from an importer? I can't see. Colleagues, we are going to debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Chukolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, why do we at the attack want this law to be repealed? Not delayed, canceled. Because this law, just by looking at its title, it's called the Social Services Act. Not a law on social support, not a law on social care, but on social services. This is a Law which actually allows legalizing the entry of the private sector into the social sphere in Bulgaria. Imagine adopting a law on military services and the state will pay private armies to guard the border for example; to private mercenaries who, if we choose, to send to Afghanistan or elsewhere. This law gives private organizations, NGOs the opportunity to seize a state function, such as the care of the state for the population. Let's assume, if you want, and some text, some change in the Law, by which we say that the Bulgarian National Bank will actually manage it private companies, private banks, as is in the US Federal Reserve. Is that where we're gonna get to? Full liberalisation, the private sector is everywhere, the state pays the private sector, the private sector does the work of the state. And the state says we can't do our job! The state is a bad owner, a bad owner, as this cliché has been imposed for a long time. The state is what the government is. With good leadership, they'll rule well. If the government is not good, they will say: "Well, the state is a bad owner. We're going in the direction of making everything private. When we make it private, do we realize that there are representatives here who have had private companies, worked in private companies and are aware: every private company wants to win. Isn't that right? They don't work pro bono, they don't work on altruistic motives. They work for profit. What's that profit going to be? Every private wants the maximum profit. Clearly, we have no doubt about that. They don't want to be lost. When the state pays private organizations, these private organizations will make a profit. The question here is, on whose back will they make a profit? On the back of those who serve the socially weak, the people who most need social support. Not a favor, but support, care. That's what this law actually allows. This law is made for this. Its very foundation, its very foundation is wrong. Clay-foot colossus! That's why we're against this law. By leaving there, this law already opens the doors to any dangers that the Bulgarian society must accept, namely: they are listed in detail, detailed, detailed, detailed, that they give huge rights to private organizations, NGOs to enter your home even to check the refrigerator, whether the child who is in the home is eating well and so on. And such rights can be opened and opened. The very embryo of this law is wrong, and that is why we want its annulment. How are you going to correct in six months a law that's been made wrong? There's no way in six months or a year. If you wish, you can't fix a law like that in five years. He's just wrong. That's why we want his annulment. Yes, it was taken very kindly, if you will, under pressure on the street, but also that we want to take care of the people whose children are disabled. Of course, who doesn't? Who doesn't, but then did we realize what we were really accepting? We are not entitled, as lawmakers, to agree lightly on an entire sector for which the state should be responsible. The state must be responsible for social care as it should be responsible for protecting the state. I remind you that I have also spoken about the military case, about the finances of the state and about many other sectors which should normally be state-owned. And here, unfortunately, we accepted, you accepted those who were in the room, something that shouldn't be there. That is why we are against, and my appeal to you is to repeal this law, to review the plays that are right in it, there must be some, to adopt a law on social care that should be done properly. And if we decide this by July, as long as it is the proposal for a postponement, then we can adopt a law in which there is no tension from which law everyone will be satisfied, not a law that we will now clothe, counseling and so on. What I see as the main lithmotive to postpone it so that we have time to convince the Bulgarian society of its rightness. The Social Ministry is running PR campaigns? If the Ministry thinks that this will convince the Bulgarian people, it is wrong. If we're going to make round tables in "Radison," in other expensive hotels, round tables to gather representatives of organizations and to convince ourselves that will not happen again. It is already clear that this law has been compromised in the eyes of Bulgarian citizens, this law is causing tension and there is no way to go back. My call, our call of attack, is: let's cancel it! We're human, we'll sit down, we'll repair our curvature, as the Apostle says. We will sit down, we will discuss it, we will adopt a law that will be well-accepted by everyone and not change something that has already been compromised in the eyes of Bulgarian citizens. Those protests that were and are all over the country... Have you seen such protests? In big cities, hundreds of people come out. There were thousands of verses in Sofia. [[Replications from OP.]] A thousand verses! Make fun of IMRO and NFSB as much as you want on these thousandths. Make fun of me, it's your right! My appeal to you again I say, and that concludes: let us repeal this law and make a new law that will really be in the interests of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Chukolov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Pesheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u40	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor on behalf of an importer. Our proposal and we of the Volatile actually remain in this position to postpone the Law by one year. As you can see, there is widespread public discontent among people. I suppose you remember how this Social Services Act was passed as a package of three laws. Then it was accepted, I can say that.. perhaps under pressure, because of the disabled and the Personal Aid Act. I think we're the people here who can change this situation and we have to do it. We must not allow such authority to be given to NGOs and the social service to be turned into business. This is actually the duty of the state. She has to take care of her citizens. I do not want to become a bad prophet, but I sincerely hope that after six months, in July, just before vacations, we will not find ourselves in the same situation - there will be no adjustments under this law and we will have to get back into an awkward situation in front of people. For us by WALK, six months are an insufficient period to make adjustments to this law and to review the ambiguous texts, given that there are changes in other laws, so we will insist that it be postponed by one year, so that there is sufficient time to make a broad public discussion, all interested parties can participate in the discussion and that we can make a real working law for all people. After all, it is our duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u41	Thank you, dear Mrs. Pesheva. - What's the line? I can't see. For a statement, colleagues?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u42	I won't!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u43	There is, of course, Mr. Simeonov. Mr. Vigenin, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today's discussion and the decisions we are about to make are very late, but they still give us a chance to make them right. I think it's right to put aside the extreme interpretations and suggestions about this law, but let's still say why it came to this. We blame the government and the majority for lack of hearing ability for the concerns of a small part of the Bulgarian society. You tried to neglect the rising dissatisfaction with social assistance policy, you relied that tensions would subside and quietly change would enter into force from January 1st. At the same time, we cannot fail to note that the protests against the Strategy for the Child were the one that was published and then withdrawn, and against the legislation which, step by step for years, actually led us to the model developed in the withdrawn strategy, was the largest for this year, and as mass, and as duration, and as territorial scope. It is true that the BSP supported the changes in the Law at first reading, I stress at first reading, because there are many elements related to the people with disabilities, which are completely indisputable, but along with the undisputed things in it came the controversial ones who have affected a already exposed nerve the attachment of the Bulgarian to the family and to the child as a supreme value. Worse still, today you continue to explain some of you that there are no problems, that there are wrong interpretations that everything is fine with the Law. In fact, you've come this far to implicate social workers and explain that they're undeservedly demonized. No, actually, no one's demonizing them. On the contrary, for us, for the BSP their work is sacred and we are glad that precisely and at our insistence they will receive higher salaries in 2020. But the Law, if it remains this way, will put them in perspective in a very difficult environment. Today you are in favour of delaying the entry into force of the amendments to the Law, but for what is this postponement.................................. to have time for real dialogue and search for the right and acceptable to all decisions, or is this only for simulating a desire for dialogue, and the real reason is to conceal the lack of willingness by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy with the necessary regulatory framework? Time will tell us for sure. The answer cannot be given now. Under the Social Services Act, we will not enter into a discussion on the substance, as the debates are yet to come. However, I will share some principles that affect social assistance, respectively social services, and especially the policy towards children at risk. We are opposed to the perception of import models.. I say Ideally.......................................... because in some places in the texts...................................................................................................................... We demand strict rules and control of these service providers, clear definitions and definite separation of the supplier's functions and rights from those of the service provider. A system containing the risk of unnecessary spiral expansion is unacceptable and we must be careful in the wordings. We want a clear definition of the specific national model for child protection. For years a foreign model has been imposed on the Bulgarian society, which sees the child simply as an individual and not as an integral part of the family. The best and first care for the child at risk is not to seize it or isolate it from the family, which often traumatizes it severely, but the main efforts to be aimed at supporting the family in order to deal with the difficulties and problems. I am convinced that you can give me dozens of examples that this is what is being done, but our meetings in recent months show that there are very few cases and vice versa. Understand that the pedopsychology in our country is different from that of our partners in the West. Some of you may call it backwardness, provincialism, but for the Bulgarians the relationship between generations and within the family is very strong. This has saved us in the hardest times and tearing it apart consciously or not is wrong. This should be shown in the whole complex of legislation, including in this area! At our discretion, six months is too much time to review and correct this law. But we will support the postponement of its entry into force by insisting that these 6 months should be used for a broader discussion on the overall model that we are validating in Bulgaria, and that a new Strategy for the Child may also begin, on changes to other related laws, such as the Child Protection Act and others that are relevant in this area. The parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria will actively participate in the talks that are to be held in the capital, as well as in regional and local discussions on the adopted changes, respectively on their adjustments. We will also take another step to address the Constitutional Court for some of the texts, as we have some doubts about their compliance with the Constitution. This will help for an even clearer and definite outcome of the forthcoming consultations and discussions. We hope that there will indeed be a fundamental debate on the whole range of issues and that we will all participate in it correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Hey, guys, any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam Deputy Minister, honourable guests, colleagues! I would like to start with what Mr Vigenin finished with with the idea to refer to the Constitutional Court. On the one hand, you support delaying the entry of the Social Services Act by 6 months, but what will you refer to? When are you going to refer to the Constitutional Court? Postponed law, there will be no law in force, and you want to refer to the Constitutional Court probably after its entry into force, if that is what you wanted to say, by the way. However, I would like to say a few words on the four proposed projects, two of which are to postpone the entry into force of the Social Services Act of 1 January 2020 and one which is to repeal the Social Services Act. This discussion, both parliamentary and public, is loaded with an extraordinary emotional charge. Opposite opinions were formed both in the National Assembly and in society, in various public groups. On the basis of a law not in force, which is a special precedent, opposing groups, opposing opinions, one in defence of the Law, the other against the Law were formed. This probably requires the importers of the idea of delaying the entry into force of the Social Services Act, so that in some way the public can calm down, reduce the tensions raised. Another question is what will happen within these 6 months and whether they will be enough for what is written in the Social Services Act to reach the majority of Bulgarian citizens. Why should there be a Social Services Act? What exactly are social services? You know that the social structure in the state is organized. As the Bulgarian Constitution says, there is a system of social security, there is a system of social support, in the social sector there are implanted ideas for social entrepreneurship, labour relations, social economy. Social services are a natural building model for behavior towards Bulgarian citizens who need support. As a definition of social services, it is said in the Social Services Act that they represent an activity to support persons for prevention or prevention of social exclusion, realization of rights, improvement of quality of life. In other words, the basic idea of social services is to be able to support citizens who need to eliminate opportunities for social exclusion, on the one hand, and on the other, to support independent lives both in the family and in the community. This is extremely important and requires overcoming barriers both in the family and in the community as a whole. In other words, social services appear as a building model to complete the model of social policy in Bulgaria as a whole. Next. I and our parliamentary group will not support any of the projects, which means that for now we support the unpopular thesis that the Law should not enter into force from 1 January 2020. I know that this is a difficult position, I know that there are public attitudes that are polarized, but the dignity of a policy is to be consistent. And we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are consistent, as I recall, at first reading the bill was supported by 163 MPs, without a single vote against the House, without a single vote being abstentioned. This law was part of the package of laws in the social sphere and it is not true at all the thesis that I would in any way like to disprove that the Law was adopted in a hurry, it was adopted, as it is said, without public discussion, adopted, on the knee of the people. This thesis is definitely false. Why? First, wide public consultations for more than two years, and the idea of the Social Services Act has started perhaps 7 years before the appearance of this law. In other words, wide public consultations were held with the participation of various interested parties. All these participants in the working groups have drawn up a roadmap in what way to reach the adoption of the Law. All these participants have drawn up a concept of the Law on Social Services. This concept was subject to public discussion, was also discussed in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, was also on the portal for public discussion, a seminar was held with journalists so that the ideas in the Law on Social Services could reach most of the Bulgarian citizens. And on this background to claim that the Law was adopted in a hurry, I think it is enough incorrect, because all the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts are actually fulfilled. Perhaps there are some things that have not reached full extent to all those who are interested, but I say that the discussion on the adoption of this law is by the rules. The second thesis, which is part of the mythologies surrounding this law, is related to the so-called favourism of NGOs. Dear colleagues, NGOs have been involved in providing social services since 2002! In 2002, a whole section was adopted in the Social Assistance Act, which regulates the way NGOs participate. What changed now? Nothing! Nothing changes from what was 17 years ago in terms of the participation of NGOs. Moreover, what is changing, however, is strengthening the control of a new Social Services Quality Agency, a licensing regime for absolutely everyone, including those registered in other countries of the European Union and the European Economic Area. In 2007, entering the European Union, we changed this part of the Social Assistance Act so that we could include non-governmental organisations that are registered abroad. But, notice, they are also obliged to be licensed under Bulgarian law with a small exception when providing one-off or short-term social services without establishment in the country. In other words, all natural and legal persons registered under the Commercial Law after the relevant licensing have the right to provide social services. Social services by definition are provided by municipalities. Now I'm going to tell you something about the other myth related to the state funding of non-governmental organizations. Colleagues, I have said in the motives of one of the bills, at the entrance and exit in anticipation of state funding have stood NGOs. The state budget, including the 2020 state budget, does not directly finance non-governmental organisations! [[Yelling:? Not true!?]] He doesn't directly finance non-governmental organizations! The state budget finances only social services that are included in the National Social Services Card. All other social services, if provided by non-governmental organisations, are at the expense of their source of funding and not of state financial resources. That is to say that NGOs are the ones that drain the state budget in this way, and something else that generate profit.... Non-governmental organisations registered for public benefit shall not be entitled to generate by law profit, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly. So this thesis, if I may say so, is extremely vulnerable. Non-governmental organisations can provide social services only when municipal administrations do not have the administrative capacity to provide social services. I can give you an example. I recently took part in a decision in a small community called Sarnitsa. Eighteen people work in the municipal administration. They're opening a social service. It's a day center for people with disabilities. Tell me how many of these 18 people can work by providing social services? Moreover, this law allows for control by both municipalities as social service providers and the Agency for the Quality of Social Services. And one more thing is being prepared for the first time standards for providing social services that will be controlled. There is the possibility of prior control, monitoring and decision-making according to these findings. Next, changes in 29 laws that change the philosophy of these laws. Colleagues, none of these 29 laws change the philosophy of the texts currently in force. The only change that concerns the subject is related to the Child Protection Act. Children at risk are excluded from the definition. I am opening a clamp: the Bulgarian Parliament has ratified the Convention on Disabled People. The UN Convention and a priori to put in a definition of a child at risk that a child with disability is at risk is absolutely unacceptable. That's why it dropped that definition. The other thing that is included as an addition to the Child Protection Act is the construction of so-called multidisciplinary teams as an opportunity to coordinate the policies of the individual services.......................... the Ministry of Interior, the municipalities, the structures of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and so on. This coordinated approach, these integrated care, in order to be able to be implemented, have changed the texts of the Child Protection Act. And one more thing. There are some definitions that are new, related to the process of deinstitutionalization, with the vision of several successive governments from the last 10 years for deinstitutionalization of care for children with disabilities. These are, generally speaking, the changes in the 29 laws. This law, which is thick, must be emphasised, does not in any way change family policies. On the contrary, the support for the family, for raising children, state policy is stated in the first texts of the Law on People with Disabilities. The last thesis I want to engage your attention with, and it is the hottest topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u47	To extend the time, Mr. Ademov?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u48	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u49	Let's go! Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go,
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u50	I'm done, Madam President. Taking children away from social workers. Colleagues, it's not about taking children at all. The problem is, there's no one to look after the abandoned children. The job of social workers is to bring children back to their biological families, reintegrate them into the biological family, not take them away in any way. There is no change in the mechanism laid down in the Child Protection Act. The only way for an administrative withdrawal of a child from the family for a certain period without a judicial procedure or judicial procedure postponed in time is because of the urgency, when it comes to a child at risk, which is threatened, there is a direct threat to the health and life of the child. When it is threatened by coercion for prostitution, for begging and so on, when there is clear data, the social worker who is engaged in this inspection collects a multidisciplinary epic that makes and prepares an opinion to the court so that a judicial procedure can decide what to do on the basis of factual circumstances. So in this law there is no thesis of taking children. With all these arguments, our parliamentary group will not support any of the proposed bills, which means that we support the Social Services Act, which was adopted by a majority of the Bulgarian Parliament just a few months ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. A line? Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ademov, without going into dispute with your expertise regarding social assistance, I will return you to the beginning of your speech when you claim that there is no reason, there is no way in this law to refer to the Constitutional Court and to ask whether or not there is an unconstitutionality. According to your logic, there is no reason to consider now a law amending and supplementing the Law or a law repealing this Law, as you believe it does not exist. I would like to inform you that this law was adopted at second reading on 7 March 2019 and was published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 22 March 2019, which means that this law is already in legal peace. Just because it didn't come into force doesn't mean it's gone. In practice, this law since 23 March could be discussed, as we are currently discussing it for amendment and supplement, and to ask the Constitutional Court whether and in what way, and whether some of its norms, which have been introduced, are not unconstitutional? We do so with the clear awareness that there are doubts in society on this issue, and as a nationally responsible party, we want these doubts to be dispelled. The highest and only body that can give an opinion on this law is the Constitutional Court, which is why we also intend to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u54	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Ademov! I agree in practice with everything you have spoken about the Law, including that part of it, that delaying the Law is problematic. And in this regard, my line is addressed to you about the part where you said that this law was not adopted at all in a hurry, but that it was discussed very well. He was not only discussed very well, he was late. And in fact, if there was pressure from the opposition in relation to this law, you and I remember very well that it came on one ground that there was a plan for integration of people with disabilities, adopted by the majority of GERB, which envisaged that the Social Services Act would be in force in 2016. And when the protests of the disabled people were at the front, the question was somehow to fulfill the majority of the commitments that he made to them under international agreements. That's what I'm talking about. So this law has not been passed in a hurry, nor is it any serious nonsense that they are trying to convince us at the moment. On the contrary, he has been discussed for a very long time. By the way, for the people who want to postpone the Law and for the majority, I would like to remind you that then the opposition, including in my person, was doing one thing, we were pushing you and telling you: 2016 should have been passed the Law. He hasn't been accepted yet! We submitted the Personal Aid Act, but the Social Services Act we refused to work on all the time because it is a very complex law and it cannot be written by the opposition. It must be written by the ruling majority and by the people of the Ministry because they will perform it. These were the ones we've been betting all this time on the Social Services Act. Ladies and gentlemen of GERB, you have your full responsibility for the Law on Social Services at the moment... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Madam President. ...in which you placed it in the plan for integration of disabled people............................ until the moment you failed to meet the deadline in 2016, the moment you wrote it, until the moment you postponed it, and until the next moment in a year and a half when this Parliament will end and this law will not have entered into force. This is your responsibility!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, neither you nor I are specialists in Constitutional Law. You probably have some grounds, but that's not the point. Perhaps you have the right to ask the Constitutional Court, and so on, it is your right. That's not the biggest problem. The question is.. and here I address Mr. Kutev, the question is that the idea of the Law on Social Services exists for more than seven, eight years in the package of social laws: the Law on Social Disabilities, the Law on Personal Aid, the Law on Social Services. We all insisted, and not only the opposition, but also the protesting mothers then, that the three laws be passed by the end of the year, by the end of 2018. Unfortunately, that did not happen then. In March, the Social Services Act was adopted because of the complexity you are talking about. However, we are currently in favour of the Law because we are convinced that there has been a sufficiently serious public discussion on all the rules of the Law on Legislative Acts, on the one hand. We do not want this law to oppose those who are on the side of the Law and those who are against the Law. Because if there are such positions in the National Assembly, this means that public attitudes follow these positions of the National Assembly and vice versa. In this case, it is the opposite, because public attitudes led some of the MPs to give up their initial support for the Social Security Act. However, the main argument for the support of the Social Services Act is support for people who need this support from social services in order to be able to lead an independent life in the family and society, support so that they can be protected from social exclusion in order to have a better quality of life. And now, why do we support the Law? Because for us, it's not clear on the one hand, we're explaining what they are... Most of the discussions are related to the fact that... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Madam President. ...Most of the texts of the Law are written in a way that meets public expectations, large public groups of people with disabilities, people who are able to not be able to serve themselves, elderly people in remote regions and so on, and on the other hand, we say: because there is public discontent, we must parse it in some way and put it in reverse speed. This is what we find hard to understand from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, there are four bills that concern the new Social Services Act, which should enter into force from 1 January 2020. The same was adopted exactly one year ago unanimously with 163 votes and applause. At the second vote in March, this law was adopted by a majority. Members of Parliament from the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee know how important and necessary this law is. Not once have we discussed this issue in the Social Committee. The social services in Bulgaria have existed for 17 years. They are mainly implemented by municipalities under the provisions laid down in the Social Assistance Act. Only 15% of the social services in Bulgaria are managed by NGOs. Social services are activities in support of persons for social inclusion and independent lifestyles based on social work and provided in the community or in specialised institutions. Using a social service is voluntary. They shall be granted according to the personal choice and the desire of each person. The most common social services in the country at the moment are social assistant, personal assistant, home assistant, home care patronage, public dining rooms, rehabilitation and social integration centers, homes for old people, homes for adults with dementia and others. In recent years, the opening of social services in municipalities has grown. At present, 1356 social services have been revealed and operated in the country. In recent years, the government's efforts have been aimed at providing quality and effective social services in the community and in a home environment that play a key role in supporting individuals and promoting their social inclusion. For years there has been a need for the establishment of specialized regulations in this area. The aim is to improve the quality of social services, to have equal access to them, to meet individual needs of individuals, to have stricter control, to have criteria and standards for each social service, to have clear rules of transparency and accountability, to raise requirements for social service providers, to have a social services map that will regulate the demand and supply of social services. The development of the Social Services Act was accompanied by a broad public discussion, as was said by the predecessors. It was presented and discussed at local, national, regional level with the participation of various stakeholders. It has passed all procedures of public consultation, on the public consultation portal and on the website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Much of the proposals and opinions that have been made on this draft law have been taken into account and reflected in the draft law. Despite the general support that this draft new social services law has received, today I am faced with a situation to have this discussion again and to want changes. For some time there has been a targeted attack and criticism against the new law in the public domain. Certain civil organisations have objections to specific texts in the Law. A incomplete and inaccurate interpretation is made. Some words, sentences, and public opinion are being manipulated, tensions in society are being drawn from the context, you see that this law violates family relations, social workers want to illegally seize children from families. The laws should be read in full, taking into account the interconnection of their provisions. The theme of family, children, parenting is extremely sensitive and abuse and people's fears are incorrect and unproductive. The Social Services Act is not a law for children, for parents, for family relations. Other laws govern this relationship. These are the Family Code, the Child Protection Act, the Family Aid Act for Children. The Social Services Act is not contrary to family values. He's a law to support people, not against them. The government does not conduct and does not intend to pursue anti-family policy. The best environment for raising and raising children is the family environment. Any case of placement of a child outside the family is strictly based on compliance with the statutory procedures laid down in the Child Protection Act and not in the Social Services Act. In their work, social workers are guided by the interests of the child and compliance with the laws. Accommodation of a child outside the family is an extreme measure and is taken, as has been said so far, only in cases where the child's life and health are threatened. According to the Bulgarian legislation, I would like to stress that this accommodation outside the family is only in judicial order. The Social Services Act does not have such provisions as apply to this subject. We of GERB's parliamentary group are worried about people's fears. The fact is that there is tension in society, that social workers will take child care of their parents for no reason. This is absolutely not true, but it spreads lightningly into social networks and creates psychosis among society. Therefore, we from GERB parliamentary group will support the Draft Law amending the Law on Social Services with importers Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs proposing a postponement of the Law for six months and the same to enter into force from 1 July 2020. We will use this time to discuss and explain what concerns people to eliminate the tensions and fears that the Law has created. We will seek through dialogue the reasonable compromise. It is important in these months to find the balance and the contact point for everyone. We of GERB's parliamentary group believe that the Social Services Act is necessary and should exist. It builds and enriches the current system of social services. In view of the arguments presented so far, the parliamentary group of GERB will not support the bill for the annulment of the Social Services Act with importers Desislav Chukolov and a group of MPs. We also do not support the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Services with the importer Angel Isaev. There is a new reading of the Law with the proposed amendments and the dropping of many of the provisions of the Bill, changing the nature and nature of the existing legislation in the field of social services. We will also refrain from supporting the Draft Law amending the Law on Social Services of the People's Representatives Elena Pesheva and Boriana Georgieva from the parliamentary group of the Volya, proposing that the Act be postponed by one year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u59	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. The line, Mr. Kutev. Then Mrs. Taskov and then Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u60	Madam President, honourable Members! Mrs. Angelova, I fully agree with you with the thesis, with much of these, frankly. But the thesis that this law, in general, does not concern the withdrawal of children from parents, is a fact, so this and this whole, how to say it, populist wave that has evolved in recent months in my country is quite strange to me. So we agree on that. We're different. Personally, I will not support any of the three laws. I won't support them, because for me, the problem, as I said, is not in the children or how they are taken away. For me, the problem, my personal problem, I share, is that my mother with Alzheimer's has been at 100% care for the fourth year. It takes seven days 24 hours to have a man with her. This thing is not provided to me by either the state or the engios. As a matter of fact, the only organizations that really helped me during that time were private companies that were involved in social activities, because there were times when without these companies I wouldn't be able to tie the ends. The State in this regard has practically done very close to zero. I mean, they provided some kind of decubital mattress aid and so on, but in terms of looking, which is expensive, because it's about a salary of a person who's 24/7, plus a second salary for a rehabilitator, we don't have anything there. That was the work of this law. When the Law was postponed, not that the Law, if it came into force now solved the problems of people like me, but it was giving some kind of move in the right direction, but there must be a lot more work to be done. People like me on my personal observations are over 100,000 in the country. There's almost no family that doesn't have the same example as the old guy who looks at home. Whether he watches it for three months or five years like me, it's a matter of life's situation. I'm telling you, the law had to come in a lot longer and solve problems a lot wider. All of this is happening, all of this panic right now, thanks to looking at some 15 people going around the front, which I think is very problematic for our democracy, not to mention the people with disabilities who have no one to look at them. Just two more words. The problem with no one to look at them is that I, thank God, have the money to pay the nannies. I can't imagine what the other 90 thousand people in my situation are doing - Bulgarians who don't have the money to pay babysitters' salaries.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Mrs. Taskova, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u62	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Angelova, I am making this remark to you on the fact that you have stated clearly and categorically which of the proposed bills will support the parliamentary group of GERB, and in fact the largest number is it and it depends on what will happen. I therefore believe that you should reconsider your decision and support the Bill submitted by the Vola Parliamentary Group because, as you have said, it is extremely important that this law be passed. Indeed, our state needs a law that regulates these relations, but tension is not just a tension in social networks and some wave of discontent of parents, but, on the contrary, there are many misunderstandings and interpretations of texts that lead to this tension. Therefore, we offer you a year's delay and not automatically enter it into this format after this one year, but a serious public discussion, an introduction to all opinions and these and ultimately the adoption of a law that will meet the objectives and needs of its not only title, but a substance and subject. Because we are, too, as you said, worried about the people who are currently protesting. I believe that the work of the National Assembly is to give precisely this support, comfort and guarantee the security of every family of children and elderly people who need these services. Thank you for your attention. I would be really pleased if you reconsidered your decision and gave the MPs the opportunity to debate again under the Law to do exactly those texts that will not be interpreted but will be respected and the Law will indeed be in its sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u63	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. Mr. Gokov, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u64	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Angelova, I will not make a line on the substance of your speech. What you have said is clear to all those who work in the social sphere and who are at all relevant to the social sphere. It is no coincidence that Anton Kutev in a line before you reminded that this bill should have been prepared in 2016. My reply is that you said at the beginning that all of the Social Committee is a fact, and not only in the Social Committee, but also in the National Assembly at the first vote was adopted unanimously by 163 votes, without any abstention, without a single objection. I'm going out here to give you a line in this part that there are protesters outside yesterday, today, before. The protests started in March. [[Comments from GERB: "No! "]] If they don't, they'll come. It's okay that they're not here right now. [[Noise and lines.]] The point is that there are protests, there are serious social tensions that you can't deny, even though you're yelling. That's why I'm telling you, I'm trying to counter thesis on your own or in support of your thesis that we at the BSP, although at the first vote we supported the Bill because of its importance, now because of these serious protests outside and tensions we want to postpone the bill by at least three months. One year is a very long term. In these three months, we can fix this. I just want to tell you that there is no reform in any sphere, especially in the social sphere, under pressure. If there is no public consensus on this, there is no way to talk about successful reform. I would also tell you that if in March, when the Bill was adopted and when the protests started, if you as a ruling majority had paid attention to these protests and heard what these people had told you about the months of March so far, we would have done a lot to calm the public tensions so that we could clear the controversial texts and in order to be able to enter into force... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u65	Colleagues, take it easy!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u66	...these texts that concern people and which we have to accept - all those who have been adopted, but we must not postpone them.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. For the coat, Mrs. Angelova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, I'll start with your line. We do not deny that there is tension. On the contrary, we see this tension in society and we are worried about people's fears. That is why we have taken this decision, despite the importance of the Social Services Act, to support the proposal of our fellow Members from.................... to postpone the implementation of the Social Services Act by six months. In the Law of the United Patriarchs, this is only a single paragraph to postpone the operation of this law. This bill does not change essentially the Social Services Act. We're going to use this time to calm people down for six months. We will use this time to discuss and explain the campaign on all issues that excite and disturb the Bulgarian society so that they can be calm and eliminate all fears in parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u69	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u70	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The discussion on the Bill has been late on several occasions stressed that it was adopted at first reading by all of us by a huge majority. And in such a case, the question arises: is there any point in the discussion and why so suddenly the MPs in the National Assembly, regardless of their party affiliation, have come to another mind, spoken in the native language? In this sense, I would like to point out that it is no coincidence that the legislator or the one who created the Constitution has foreseen several readings of the bills. A number of parliaments also provide for separate chambers, that is to say, another part of the legislative body, which also deals with the legislative process and reviews the bills. Is it possible to allow different votes? It's possible and there's nothing embarrassing about it. Parliament is the living link between society, between the citizens to whom we are constantly referring and to whom we owe our mandate and the legislative process. That is why I think and do not think that this issue should create any interference in our country. The second topic on which I would like to address myself is on the issue of the relationship between this law and the basic law of the state of the Constitution. In Mr. Vigenin's statement from the stand, the position of BSP was underlined that at some stage he could turn to the Constitutional Court. What is common or where are the points of contact between the law, apart from the general requirements for constitutionality of the laws in Bulgaria, where is the controversial place, where is the narrow place? This is the question of the Bulgarian State, which in the Constitution has rightly assigned the role of caring for the family, the children and the weaker individuals in society, or otherwise, the social protection of the citizens... to what extent this function of the state can be attributed to private individuals, to the private sector, to the civil sector or to any other sector to carry out this activity in the form of the so-called service. This is the essential question: what part of the activity should the state keep to itself? Is funding and setting standards sufficient for the State to ensure the functioning of this service and to satisfy this public need? Logically, the question was raised that the postponement of the Bill and the non-regulation of the regulatory base puts the people who need it in a difficult situation. It seems to me that here is the main weakness of the legislator from the way we legislate. Because the main issue of the proposed bill is not settled: how far does the state give up its role? Under this law, in practice, all this social care can be taken over by the civil sector in Bulgaria, not only where municipalities do not have capacity, virtually anywhere indefinitely and under all those conditions, which are, of course, described in the Law. Does this change the nature of the social Bulgarian state, which is defined by the Constitution, because in the social state does not mean that there are social services in the state. There are social services in almost all developed countries around the world without being declared social states in the Constitution. And that is why I am here to express my opinion that the social state actually means precisely this balance: to what extent the state does not just finance and define the standards, but is directly involved by its workers, employees, social workers, municipal employees who perform these functions and the state pays them through some state in the respective state, municipal or other structure. This is the social state because the social state itself creates standards. Because the entry into the market of 100% in the social services sector is not about whether non-governmental organizations form profit. It is clear that they do not form and it is clear that they are being abused in this direction. The point is that a market for social services is being created and this is a deep contradiction. Because for the performance of a certain social service you will be charged some say that as a result you will improve the quality. What guarantee do we have that it will improve quality?! What guarantee do we have that there will be no yes, you will say: the standards that will be given. But we have in other laws introduced standards and educational standards we have, and so on. So?! Are they carried out as adopted by the legislator? To a very large extent, no! That's why it's normal to postpone the law. I heard here earlier the thesis of the colleague from GERB that these six months will be used. In our view, they should be used to clear up those provisions in the Law that have caused today's public discontent. According to colleague Angelova, they will be used, so to speak, for propaganda, i.e. to explain how misunderstood the Law was, how much it contained in itself a positive moment and that society was not mature to accept it. There may be a moment like this, and I don't deny that there's probably that, but what we obviously have to do today is postpone it. Secondly, to find out what is due to the psychosis that occurred in the Bulgarian society at times. What's it due to? This is where I am going to say the deeper factors of the phenomenon - mass psychology - when we are doing this, to keep an account, because often, without expecting, we are directing social energy against ourselves not even because of the good or negative legislative initiatives, but because of the relationship that we have to maintain continuously with the Bulgarian society and what citizens think. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u71	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Colleagues, please take your seats. We're going to vote. First, I put to the vote a bill repealing the Law on Social Services, No 954-01-76, submitted by Desislav Slavov Chukolov and a group of MPs on 6 November 2019. They voted 167 MPs: for 7, against 128, abstentioned 32. The offer is not accepted. The second is the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Services, No 954-01-81, submitted by Angel Iliev Isaev on 21 November 2019. They voted 164 MPs: for 4, against 68, abstention 92. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending the Law on Social Services, No 954-01-84, submitted Iskren Vasilev Veselinov and a group of MPs on 4 December 2019. Vote 163 MPs: 149, against 4, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. The latest Draft Law amending the Law on Social Services is No 954-01-87, submitted by Elena Stefanova Pesheva and Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva on 13 December 2019. They voted 161 MPs: 12, against 13, abstention 136. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u72	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly propose that the bill for amendment of the Law on Social Services, No 954 01-84, submitted on 4 December 2019 by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, be subject to a second vote in today's plenary session.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u73	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Please, voting mode. Vote 150 MPs: 147 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. You're welcome to introduce us to the Second Reading Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u74	THE LAW OF THE amending the Social Services Act It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. In the Transitional and Final Provisions, § 45, the words
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u75	Colleagues, speeches? I can't see. I put to the second vote the just-read law, the name and the only paragraph. Vote 149 MPs: 143, against 4, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. With this, we have exhausted the legislative programme for today. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. To colleagues who will not stay for parliamentary control, bright Christmas and New Year's holidays! Written response from: - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev of two questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - by the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - by the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova. Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Volya Party. Here you go, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u76	Madam President, honourable Members who are still in this Chamber, the others seem to be in a hurry to start celebrating the brightest Christian holiday, but we at Volya, before the last parliamentary bell this year, want to pay attention to you as well as to the Bulgarian people. For a part of you, it's been another year since your next term here, you're used to it. For us at WOLF the final of this session is a reason for reckoning, a reason to ask ourselves and all of you a few questions. With the entry into this building in front of the name of each of us, we added two words. So it is logical to ask ourselves: were we good MPs, were we representatives of our people during the past 12 months? What's more, the pain of those who have given us their trust and sent us here, were they present in our daily lives, have they touched our hearts, have they made us act complex, temporary, without delay, to boast good results? Our assessment is that in 2019 Parliament could work at a much faster pace, focus on key problems for people.Health, education, security, mostly income. Years pass by, and such important spheres continue to sink into problems. Usually at the end of each session, each group starts bragging about how many legislative changes it has made, how many initiatives there are, how many laws it has tabled, but you know what I think? This isn't about bragging. Many amendments are a sign of poor legislation. Let us therefore, in the new year, make efforts to write laws that will last for years, without repairs, which will help our people truly live richer and more securely now than the new 2020, not after years or after another mandate. Our proposal to you is in 2020 to pay special attention to the policies for the children of Bulgaria. It was no accident that we at WALK began drawing up a road map of child happiness. As early as January, we will have the first working meetings to write together with parents and teachers, institutions, those rules that will allow families to raise happy and healthy children. We are yet to talk to you about this, we are yet to ask you for your support, because the demographic crisis is gradually becoming a problem of national security. To be honest, we say from Volya that we are the voice of the people here, and we have reason to do so, because we often put important questions before you. I'll allow myself to rephrase the words of one of our colleagues who recently left us. He had said from this tribune that when he looked at the faces in the hall, everyone looked like good people and asked: what on earth happened to you when you went out on that stand? Those words personally impressed me because I see them with my own eyes. By crossing the threshold of this building, pre-election promises are often forgotten, unprincipled coalitions and behind-the-scenes agreements are made, some become insensitive to the problems of our people. You will say: this is the parliamentary life. I can't accept that. For us from VOLLA Parliament is a sacred place, stands highest in our Republic, a place that should radiate high morals, patriotism and professionalism, and above all a sincere, impersonal care for every Bulgarian citizen. After a few days, when you are with your loved ones and greet each other on the holidays, when you look into your children and grandchildren' eyes, think about this: what I have given to this people, have I justified the high title of MP, do I keep my name and conscience purely, with what good will my constituents remember me? These are the values and principles that we at WALK want to show the 44th National Assembly in the new 2020 year. Hopefully at the end of the mandate that is approaching, we will be proud of the answers to these questions. Be safe, fellows! But I would also like to address the Bulgarian citizens: You, who trusted the politicians here today, including us from the Vola, will now at Christmas take personal account. Each of you will determine the year as bad or good based on whether each one succeeds as a person. It is important to ask ourselves what elections we have made, because this year was a tough one - there were parliamentary elections, and there were local elections. Everyone evaluate what is happening today in the municipality, in Europe, in the state or we will just pass it lightly and say: the state is moving forward, today are holidays, the problem is me, the problem is the neighbor, the problem is friends, but not my choice. If so, I want to tell you that the problem is reconciliation, patience, fear of different. But let's not talk about it today, most of you will say, today are holidays, everyone will be happy. Today is Ignazhden. I wish everyone in his house to enter health and well-being! I wish support for every Bulgarian citizen! I wish you a happy holiday, too, colleagues! Be alive and well and may God protect Bulgaria! [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u77	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. I also join your wishes because they were very nice. We're moving on to parliamentary control. First will answer the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Petya Avramova to a question by the National Representative Anastas Popdimitrov about the status of the international road E-79 in the section Vratsa "Montana." Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! Main road E 79 is one of the most important and busiest road arteries in our country, both from the perspective of international traffic from Danube Bridge to Captain Andreevo and from the point of view of domestic transport traffic. In different parts of this road his condition is different. From Sofia to the Greek border, for example, it is almost entirely already "with small exceptions in the gorge" is built as a highway. In other parts it is in a different state as road pavement and as infrastructure on the road itself, but in the Vratsa section it is in a particularly tragic state. When I introduced my question on 10 December 2019, I was counting on your quick reaction and I was really pleased and pleased to see that on 16 December 2019 repair activities were started in this section, more precisely the patching of those most critical places on the road where tires were popping, the rims were crooked, the airbags of squads were arriving and where the squads were driving in the middle of the road, not interested in how to save themselves, as the movement at both ends was impossible. My question is: what does your office have in mind, and in particular the Road Infrastructure Agency, for the further construction of this road to the Danube Bridge, because, unfortunately, we have built Danube Bridge 2, but we do not have a really good road there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Popdimitrov. You have the floor to answer, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Popdimitrov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The length of the section from the first-class road between Montana and Vratsa is about 32 km, of which 14 km are in Montana region and almost 18 km are in Vratsa region. Not only the section for which you ask your question, but as you pointed out yourself, the whole Republican road from Vidin to Sofia is extremely busy. An intensive movement is carried out on it. Inevitably, traffic, especially heavy, is causing serious damage to the infrastructure. This, in turn, reflects along with other factors on traffic safety and travel comfort. I have repeatedly said that with the implementation of the project, which has already started, many problems will be solved in Northwestern Bulgaria. This project is one of the strategic sites supported by the government. Targeted and at an accelerated pace, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is working to achieve this goal, as the construction works of individual sites within the global project have already started. Apart from that, the government is committed to phased-in financing and securing the financing of the entire infrastructure site. At the same time, the first-class route continues to perform its functions and the necessary care must be taken to maintain it in good operational condition. Unfortunately, the asphalt flooring in the area between Montana and Vratsa, which has been in operation for more than 13 years, is heavily depreciated and worn out. In order to improve the condition of the route, repair activities are required for which a technical project will be prepared in advance with the corresponding quantitative-value accounts. The experts of the Road Infrastructure Agency, planning the activities of the Republican Road Network, are aware of the need for serious repairs in this road section between Montana and Vratsa. Especially bad is the condition of road 1.1 from km 140 to km 143. This is the beginning of the town of Vratsa from Montana to Vratsa. For the section, which has severely impaired qualities, the means of repair under expert assessment amount to 2 million. 830,000. BGN 897. with VAT. We plan that in 2020 these funds will be provided in the budget of the Agency for Road Infrastructure, respectively, to be laid down in the Programme for 2020. The Agency shall endeavour to maintain the first-class path in accordance with its capabilities and budgetary capabilities by entrusting it to the safe passage of vehicles. Over the years critical sections have been made, flattening banquets, repair of drainage, landscape events, laying of horizontal marking, mounting of new road signs, limiting systems, the value being about 576 thousand. lv. Last year, a major repair of a bridge facility on the Botuna River was carried out on the first-class road for 678 658 BGN. In December of this year, as you yourself noted, the renovation started partially in sections from the village of Kravoder to the entrance road of Vratsa, from km 129 to km 140. These partial renovations of the flooring are about 2000 sq. m local damage to be completed by December 20th. Separately in December the pavement was renovated and marked in the section from about 600 m from km 102.060 to km 102+680 on the roundabout of Montana, the activities are at the expense of the contractor of the site after verification and recommendations given by the Institute of Roads and Bridges. A new project for a movement organisation shall be prepared, under which a noise marking will be placed there and additional road signs will be installed. After winter maintenance, the horizontal marking of the section will be fully renewed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u81	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Popdimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I thank you for this answer and for sharing what action the Ministry intends to take in this department. At the same time, I would like to say that there are things that are not as expensive as activities, but are crucial for the protection of the lives and health of people who Regional Road Management has not done for years. Let's also say about the road marking for the section you pointed out from the beginning of the town of Vratsa to the bridge of the river Leva, the so-called iron bridge. Practically this area hasn't been marked for years. In the days now the autumn and winter, the movement at night and night, there is really a nightmare. Let's put aside the millions of patches on the road. I understand that for a complete reconstruction, you said it would take 2 million. $800,000. BGN, which will be provided for in the future, but at least have a marking so that the drivers can see where they are moving and not risk their lives from one guard to the other. In my opinion, Regional Road Management could have done that. In the spring there was a car accident about 400 meters from this bridge. About 35 meters of the guardrail were destroyed in a ravine. To this day, this guard still stands like this. It's been seven or eight or nine months. On top of that, the disgusting impression of the quality of the road that our guests are gaining from foreign tourists, I must tell you that it is confirmed that no stopover along this road has been cleaned in this area for years. The stops are full of junk. The so-called baskets, which are made from cut pipes, are full and have never been cleaned up.. These stops are like a kennel of diseases. I think that with less money and more activity Regional road management could handle this humiliating condition on the road and make it so that one day, as we saw, the state painted it in Brussels as a toilet, not to see it as a dump! [[(Comments from GERB:]] Tell me about it, mate.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u83	Go on, dear Mr. Popdimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u84	Thank you. I'm graduating. I hope that you can activate Regional Road Management to fulfill at least its smaller commitments on time and quality. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u85	Dear colleagues from GERB, I gave the minister two more minutes so that we could still be correct. It's a serious question. Here you are, Mrs Avramova, for the back. I advise always your team to consider the answers to fit in the three minutes, but still the topics concern many people.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Popdimitrov, you are absolutely right that our roads must be cleaned, marked, secured so that people can move safely on them. I undertake to draw attention to the management of the Road Infrastructure Agency and, through them, to the Regional Road Management Office Vratsa, the activities that are necessary and which, as you have noted, do not require funds in the order of millions, to be entrusted immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u87	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. Now a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u88	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today is the last day of parliament in this calendar year, which means that we have done all we can, basically, do. The year is certainly sent with many disappointments and problems, at least that is how I think the Bulgarian people perceive it, and I will try to give you one of the reasons for this to happen. The reason is that, with today's sitting, we are already closing the issue of the so-called liquid currents or housing-saving deposits. This question is a public drama that has been going on for 30 years and apparently it is ending today. I'm not going to tell everything that happened to this Bill and the interest rates in the last 30 years. Many governments have done or have not done something, but unfortunately, under the current Law, the payment of long-standing housing-saving deposits to citizens ends with the end of 2019 and in the 2020 budget, i.e. for the next one, is provided for 300 thousand. BGN, with which the Fund, which paid the debts, should be closed and archived. It's all over today under the law. In other words, who managed to get his money so far has succeeded. All those to whom the state still owes money and who have waited for this money for over 30 years, all these people no longer stand a chance of getting their money. We're talking, according to the estimates of the fund itself, about 100 million. lv. That's 100 million. BGN, which thousands of Bulgarian citizens imported tens of years ago for the purchase of homes, but did not anticipate the changes of 10 November 1989 and proved to be creditors of the Bulgarian state. In general, they became creditors of their own country, which was created to protect their interests. And with varying success all these years, the state has found its powers and finances to gradually repay its obligations to its citizens. Thirty years to date, much of the citizens have managed in one way or another to obtain the funds they have invested, often imported from themselves, but often from their parents. However, there are still a few thousand rightful ones left, who have no chance from now on. For these people, interest flows are the only way to buy homes, although the funds the state owes them are insufficient, but they are a priceless supplement that gave them hope. Today, there is no hope for those who have not yet received their money. This saga is over with the familiar ending. The state practically stole 100 million. lv. by their own citizens. In recent weeks, I have spoken to dozens of citizens who have been affected, and the only thing I can tell them is that it's over now, and there's nothing more they can do. The state most ruthlessly stole the hundred million from its citizens. Was this development inevitable? Could the state not be for these people stepmother? Of course you could. And this has depended in recent years on us MPs, on the MPs in this House, and rather on the majority of GERB and the Patriots, which this time really surpassed itself. Dear Bulgarian citizens, in cold blood, consecutively and completely unscrupulous GERB and the Patriots just took your money like this, in the fully lit hall of parliament, in light and warm, right under your nose. Let me remind you how this happened. A draft to amend this law was introduced in the last parliament by the then deputy of the right-wing Member Willy Lilkov. He suggested a few simple things that would have avoided the current situation. The majority of GERB then evidently behaved exactly as it did and now they simply did not allow the Law to be viewed in a hall until the action of the previous parliament expired and accordingly the Law dropped out until no one brought it back to the new parliament. This is what we did with several BSP MPs by rewriting Willy Lilkov's law, updating it to the new requirements and importing it two years ago. The bill provided for an extension of the time limits, both for the recording of the entitled and for the payment of the amounts, but also obliged the State to pay at least 30 million. lv. annually, so that up to a few years the money will be paid to all those affected by the Law. And here begins the final saga of this law. With several preliminary procedural steps, MPs from the United Patriarchs managed to completely block the bill, together with GERB MPs headed it with the only idea not to pass it. And, colleagues, in these years I have failed to see you as precise in your parliamentary actions as you were with this law. From a procedural point of view, you have astonished me with your skills. You did it! You just screwed up a few thousand really poor citizens and stole 100 million from them. lv. Organized, relentless, completely under the Law and completely not in the interests of the citizens, that is, the exact opposite of what you swore in this Chamber, namely: "With all my actions to serve the interests of the people! " And here I would like to highlight the personal involvement of some colleagues. Those Patriots who submitted the Bill completely fabricated and crude, only to take away the possibility of control and subsequently lead to its deliberate failure to accept it. Colleagues that you call yourselves Patriots, you could have been useful to the citizens, but you chose another one you lied to, even without remorse. You just killed their hopes heartlessly, like you kill a kitten. What can a kitten do to you?! Citizens can specifically turn to the Finance Committee at the head of its President, Menda Stoyanova. Two years in a row and relentlessly the chairman of the Finance Committee did not put this bill on the Commission's agenda, which is why it did not reach the Chamber and, respectively, its deadlines expired. Dear citizens, the Patriots and GERB acted in an organized and self-denial manner to take your money. And they did. We at BSP, meanwhile, have done our best to pass the bill. We wrote, and together with our colleagues from the Vole, we submitted the bill. We tried and offered support to all the parliamentary groups because we mistakenly felt that this was a common priority of Parliament. Turns out it wasn't in common at all. Apparently, colleagues on the right side of the room didn't have it as a priority. We have collected over five thousand signatures throughout the country in support of the Bill. Dozens of times within the framework of parliamentary control, the Presidential Council and the Parliament BSP raised the issue of the Bill and why it was not dealt with. We have tried unsuccessfully to persuade the other colleagues from the Finance Commission to add one signature to us in order to submit the Bill forcefully to the Finance Commission so that the Law can enter into the Chamber. Nothing! None of this worked out. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that at first reading this bill passed two years ago with a full majority means that it makes sense, and the fact that it was never accepted and did not enter the Chamber means that there are people with a guilty conscience in this Chamber, or at least there should be, because citizens are wronged by MPs who have sworn to protect them and not to harm them. Today, as I have already said, is the last day of parliament for this year, i.e., dear Bulgarian citizens, this issue is now closed and there is nothing more that can be done about it. GERB and "United Patriarchs." Probably under the direct influence of the Minister of Finance did what he could. He just took your money. After all, you vote. You citizens determine how long this will last. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. We continue with the parliamentary control of the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova. Question from the National Representative Ivo Hristov about the realization of the project "Balkan Stream" in Bulgarian territory. Here you are, Mr. Hristov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u90	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! The issue was so formulated last week, but some time ago the President of the Russian Federation in his official statement noted a delay in the construction of the gas transmission facility. Moreover, President Putin has put external pressure on the Bulgarian state for this. In response, the Bulgarian Prime Minister pointed out that President Putin's information is old. Therefore, I insist on up-to-date data from you, and I have the following questions: at what stage is the construction of the Balkan Stream on Bulgarian territory? How many kilometers from the total length of the facility are the total 640 km built in complete form, not only excavated? If there is a delay, for what reasons is it and how will the deadlines be compensated, and what are the risks to the final implementation? Aren't you afraid that dragging this project out every day takes us away from the goal already agreed with the United States, namely that Bulgaria should be a gas distribution centre in the Balkans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u91	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Hristov, thank you for your current question. It really is extremely important. I will use the parliamentary tribune to remind and thank all MPs for the fact that at the end of last year you unanimously supported an update of Bulgaria's energy strategy, according to which as a strategically important project was included the project for expanding the transmission infrastructure on the territory of Bulgaria from the Bulgarian-Turkish border to the Bulgarian-Serbian border. This was the first and very important step towards launching this whole project, which is really very important and will have a very serious impact, positive not only for Bulgaria, but also for the whole region. I can certainly say that, following the update of the Strategy, our national legislation and European rules have been fully applied both in the field of public procurement and in the area of Directive 73 relating to natural gas. All necessary procedures have been carried out so that we can be absolutely sure of compliance with European legislation in implementing this type of project, because nowhere in Europe is such large-scale projects being built in the field of natural gas without prior a market test, without the clear economic interest in this project and the guarantee for the return of this investment. Now specifically on the issue of the current state of this extremely important project. I will only recall that after an open procedure under the Public Procurement Act on 18 September, a contract was signed with the selected contractor. This is Consortium Arkad. I will open a clamp and say that there has been an appeal, as our national legislation and European legislation enables. Following the ruling of the Supreme Administrative Court, it was also possible to sign the Treaty on 18 September 2019. According to the Treaty clauses, the first 308 km must be built up within 250 calendar days and the remainder of the rest of the track must be built within the remaining 615 calendar days. Now specifically on the topic related to the stage at which the project is implemented. The pipeline provided for construction is approximately 474 km long, with a diameter of 1220 millimeters and a maximum working pressure of 7,5 megapascales. Together with the construction of the transmission pipeline, two optical cable lines will be built, which will be laid on both sides of the transmission pipeline and reach a Bulgarian Serb border. The route of the gas pipeline passed through the land of 11 districts through which Bulgartransgaz (Bulgartransgaz) established a waitout for its construction. According to the contract concluded, as I have already mentioned, within 250 calendar days an area of 308 km long will be built from a compressor station..Polish Senovets, located in the land of the municipality of Polski Trumpesh, near the Bulgarian-Serbian border. For the whole section of 308 km, construction permits are issued by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, which have entered into force. Within the remaining term of the Treaty, up to 615 calendar days will be built the rest of the route of the transmission pipeline, namely 166 km from the compressor station of Polski Senovets. The first stage of the project has been completed and put into operation. That's 11 km from the Turkish-Bulgarian border to the compressor station. Another very important energy facility is also being built and put into operation. This is the gas measuring station, which is located right next to the compressor station. Currently it is working on a route of approximately 150 km.. 149 km 700, to be exact, and the route is divided into three sections. The first section is from Kranov kt...Borislav. to Kranov kt.. Gorni Dubnik, which has a length of 57.4 km. The second section is from Kranov kts., Gorni Dubnik, near Kranov kt., which is 45.2 km long. The third section is from Kranov kts.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... At present, for this entire route, which is currently being operated from approximately 150 km, have been delivered and are located in temporary construction bases of 16 547 pipes, or these are the pipes 200 km from the pipeline. Of course, other activities related to removal of hummus layer, excavating trenches are also carried out. All these activities related to the technological implementation of construction activities are under way. I can certainly say that, on our part and on the part of the contractor, every effort is made so that the project is implemented within the term of the Treaty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. I hope you'll make up for it with a shorter backdrop. Here you are, Mr. Christov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u94	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! Thank you for your detailed and comprehensive response. When the head of state of a great state says something, unlike other geographical latitudes, behind his words there is always an exact basis. Therefore, what President Putin had said clearly has some grounds. My concern is, I suppose, and a large part of my colleagues, because I understand that this is a matter beyond party distinctions, not to turn out that Bulgaria, which, geographically, in industrial and any other history, suits it to be the energy center of the Balkans, and not only, not to be able to miss out on this project. You know, I suppose there is a high level of readiness for alternative route of the Bulgarian. You know very well that from Kayaköi to Ipsala on Turkish territory in Turkish Thrace the infrastructure is actually built. It was built on the occasion of both the Turkish Stream and the Tanap gas pipeline, which has already been put into effect. The same pipeline has sufficient capacity to take over the Bulgarian transit gas section in Greece's Belomorie, i.e. from the area of Ipsala almost to the area of Gevgeli, i.e. the Greek Macedonian border. From there there are only 100 kilometers, which should eventually be built on Macedonian territory, and the bypass of the Bulgarian territory is ready. Therefore my appeal is, I want to be properly understood, not to miss this golden chance. Bulgaria, however, although late, although in a much more erzac form, does not miss this chance to actually be the gas transmission centre to some extent in the Balkans, because this, to a significant extent, along with the other project, which is in your portfolio, NPP "Belene" would guarantee our national sovereignty and survival in the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Hristov, I am using this case to assure you that the importance of this project is clear to all of us. It is clear to all of us that this project has a reflection not only for Bulgaria, but also for the whole region, and this makes us even more responsible for the implementation of this project. In order to be sure that it will be a fact and will be realized, and in order not to repeat mistakes from the past, of course, we must follow the rules and we had to adhere strictly to all European requirements and our national legislation. In April, Bulgartransgaz concluded the contract. Unfortunately, then there were appeal procedures by the two consortiums involved in the procedure. From the beginning of May until September, while the judicial proceedings related to the appeal were underway, we had no way of breaking the rules and putting the project at risk. These are precisely those four months that relate to absolutely objective reasons which are related to an appeal procedure for this public procurement, and we had to comply, we were obliged to follow this procedure. This, in fact, also imposed the conclusion of the Treaty later than the planned initial date, but you understand that these are processes that we cannot control and influence on them. We are now doing everything we can to make up for this delay, because it is also very important for us that the project be implemented and put into service in the shortest possible time since our project depends on projects in neighbouring countries We are aware of the importance and, believe me, we are doing everything we can to speed up the construction of the Project, and I think that, as set out in the Treaty, the deadline will be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u97	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petkova. This was the end of your participation in parliamentary control for today and this year as well. Let's wish for a successful cooperation next year! And we move on to the questions to the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov. The first question is from the MP Georgi Gokov on the continuing pollution of the Sazilika River near the Stara Zagora village of Rakitnitsa, a new case of dead fish. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! Dear Minister, a little chronology. Residents of the village of Rakitnitsa were seriously worried and worried about what happened on September 18th and 19th this year pollution of the Sazlieka River in the region after the waste water discharge coming from the Regional Depot. People then found that about 500 meters after the discharge, down the river the water was cloudy and there was a dead fish swimming in it. Then they took photos, filed a complaint on phone 112, on September 20th there was also a complaint lodged at RIEW Stara Zagora. In this regard, Minister, I asked you a question and asked you to order a check on the work of the depot and to inform me, and through me and the residents of the village of Rakitnitsa about the results. In addition, on behalf of the people of Rakitnitsa, I asked you: do you guarantee that after the measures taken by you and by the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection, the incident with the pollution of the Sazyka River will not happen again, which, by the way, is protected in Natura 2000? Your answer in general terms and what has established the specific verification is that there will be no leakage in the river, provided that the last inspection shaft has been absolutely dry and that the Regional Inspection controls twice a year planner and whenever there are signals out of plan, and that you are convinced that questions like mine and answers like yours are at least not useless, that we will continue to jointly monitor these processes and help people with information and checks. So here's a new question for a new event. On November 23rd, there are again dead fish along the river Sazlieka about 4.5 kilometers from the place of discharge, dozens of them dying for unknown reasons, fish surfaced along the river. The first dead specimens were found a hundred meters down from the site where the pipe of the Regional waste dump was drained, where domestic waste from the settlements of Stara Zagora and Sliven districts were processed and buried. The signal was submitted on 23 November 2019 on Saturday, on phone 112 from the owner of a small fruit freezing factory near the village of Rakitnitsa. He's come across this aching fish. Among the specimens were large pikes, carps, river muffles. Now there are puddles of strange dark brown color again. The question, Minister, is: how will you explain the continuing pollution of the river; what will be taken and when will the pollution and cases of dead fish in the river end? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u99	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u100	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, after the signal received, as you said, on the 24th day after the signal, a check was carried out at the Regional Waste Management Centre (Rakitnitsa Zagora), and a view of the Sazlieka River in the region of the village of Rakitnitsa and the village of Arnautito. During the inspection of the depot, no waste water discharge was reported in the Sazlieka River. The inspection shaft of the collector taking the waste water from the depot shall be without delays, foam or other traces of waste water discharge. No water leakage was found at the site of the discharge of the collector from the depot in the Sazlieka River. Nearby there is a clean terrain, providing unobstructed access to various techniques - trucks, tanks and others, as well as the presence of brown deposits of unknown origin about two metres from the exit of the departure collector of the depot. In this regard, in order to prevent the possibility of unauthorised discharge of waste water in the Sazilika river of Stara Zagora municipality, a prescription was given to limit access to equipment with a period of implementation 29 November 2019. The prescription was implemented.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... During the inspection there was also a tour of the river in the village of Rakitnitsa in the presence of the signaler, and the village of Arnautito. In a section about five kilometers from the village of Rakitnitsa, a number of dead fish were found at the bridge of Trakia Motorway. It should be noted that between the two villages of Rakitnitsa and Arnautto, there are no industrial sources of waste water. The waters of the Sazlieka River are without coloring and smell in the precinct before and after the point of discharge of the depot. On 2 December 2019 and in relation to a prescription given to the municipality of Stara Zagora by the experts of the eco-inspection, a follow-up check was carried out. It is stated that the prescription is fulfilled, an earth-shaped dike is formed to limit access of equipment to the river at the point of discharge of the Regional Centre. A review of the diverting collector has also been carried out and no waste water discharge has been found in the Sazlieka River at the depot site. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u101	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Mr. Minister, I've learned from the local media that the RIEWs responded to the signal, were handling the case after they received this signal. There were also specialists from the Swimming Directorate of Plovdiv, who visited the scene the next day on Sunday, although it was Saturday and Sunday. As I hear now from your answer, they haven't found any trace of the waters of the Sazlieka River from the depot. They took samples, including from where there were still dead fish and so on. I'm sorry for the irony I'm about to include here. It's a joke, but I understand from your answer that it's okay. The irony is that it's like this fish in the river is dying. It kills itself when it sees how clean the water is. Again, I apologize for the irony. I'm serious now. Mr. Minister, I don't know about you, but I'm ashamed of these people in the area, because I know their problem from the very beginning, when I started looking for a place from several places, their playground was chosen. Protests, doubts! I was a city councilman then and I was involved in this whole trial. They then expressed serious doubts about the work of the depot. I have to tell you that I didn't have any doubts at the time, because I thought that in the 21st century, you couldn't help but be controlled and not get things like this. Now there's an accident again, and he's just another one. They've been bothering me, people, for some time now, but before that, there have been accidents. I am sure that there will be accidents afterwards and we cannot respond to these people in a single way that this is not from the landfill, from the landfill and it is unacceptable that it happens because there is particularly serious control on the river and on top of it it happens, and it happens periodically. I'm going to delay a few seconds of time. I would like to ask a few additional questions: what does the analysis of the samples taken indicate? Don't you find this periodic fish extinction suspicious? Does it talk about pollution of the river with what and by whom? What will be done from now on to prevent incidents of this kind and how to explain them to people from surrounding settlements? I understand that on the general background of pollution in the country with particulate matter and with other pollutants this must be a small problem, but for these people it is a serious problem and they want to know what is going on in their area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u103	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u104	Dear Mr. Gokov, without a drop of irony there are no big and small problems, there are no big and small contaminants, there are solved and unsolved. What we find here, and I will not agree with you, that you are constantly pointing towards the depot, because all the checks that have been done, including in the presence of signalers from the Regional Inspection, are not pointing to the depot. What was discovered and prescribed to the municipality is a site where it could have been unregulated to be thrown out of tanks, from what could have gone so far, and therefore it was prescribed for the municipality to terminate access to this one, to call it a clean site, because when there is unregulated disposal... The depot as a whole is a facility, the necessary controls can be applied. Unregulated is extremely difficult. We can't keep a 24/7 watch. There's no way that's gonna happen. We'll keep watching. I don't have any information yet on the results of the samples that were taken. I'll take care to inform you once I have them. In any case, the most difficult to control the illegal ones, to say the illegal ones, I think this is the case, this has been prescribed, so the municipality has suspended access to this site, which does not mean that no other place will be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u105	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimov. Next is a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov, Professor Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev concerning control activities of the Ministry of Environment and Water at the sites for the disposal of killed animals of African swine fever in 2019. You have the floor, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, colleagues! Mr. Minister, the African swine fever this year, unfortunately, has reached our country, especially in Northeastern Bulgaria, where it has affected many sites. After all, more than 100,000 animals in the Ruse region were killed and buried. I will not be concerned here with Decree No 22, which we are familiar with, where exactly the disposal sites are specified and which institutions are involved in this. There is no transparency with regard to the choice of these places. People didn't know exactly how they were chosen, did these institutions gather?? The use of these places changed, there were protests not in one place about this... After all, in several places the animals were buried. In one of the grave sites of Brashlen, where a water supply zone, where a wet zone is, more than 40,000 pigs were buried. These corpses cause serious concern among the surrounding residents. The reasons are that it was not clear how and what measures were taken to protect groundwater, to enter the chemical elements with which these animals were killed, how to prevent them from entering the groundwater, how these sites were disinfected, what subsequent measures were taken by all interested parties for the non-proliferation of this disease. It is in this regard that our question to you is: what control measures and actions has the Ministry of Environment and Water taken or will the Ministry of Environment and Water take on the sites for the disposal of the animals killed by African swine fever in 2019? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u107	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u108	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, Mrs. Bachvarova, Mr. Stoilov, Mr. Danev! The actions related to the detection of outbreaks of African swine fever are organised and coordinated by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, as you yourself said, under the terms and conditions of Regulation No 22. According to this regulation, the properties in which the logs are built are offered by the mayors of municipalities. The mayor shall send the proposed properties for verification and coordination in relation to the implementation of the regulated requirements of the Commission, composed of representatives of the municipality or town hall concerned, the Regional Veterinary Office, the Regional Inspection of Public Health Protection and Control, the Regional Inspection of Environment and Waters and the Swimming Directorate for Water Management. For the fulfilment of the criteria laid down in the Regulation relating to natural waters, the water management pool directorates shall carry out checks for each proposed property for the prohibitions and restrictions in sanitary zones; for the presence of surface and groundwater; the rights granted for their use and the risk of water being contaminated. The cases in which the relevant areas are not to be used for the construction of log pits shall be considered when the properties are located in open karst areas, in belt I and belt II of sanitary and security zones, in river russal, coastal bays of rivers, lands that are flooded with maximum filling of ponds and protective dikes. From July 2019 until the end of November 2019 in the pool directorates have examined and agreed with 992 of the total 2722 properties proposed by municipalities for carcass pits for the disposal of killed animals. The specific measures that we have taken: 1. We held meetings with representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and BABBH in connection with timely provision of information exchange within the competence of the responsible departments. 2. We prepared and sent instructions to the competent institutions (BABCH, RIEW, pool directorates, district managers) for: - the circumstances to be checked by the municipalities before a property is offered for the disposal of killed animals. The National Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria has also been notified of the instructions; - the specific criteria for the protection of groundwater; - measures to reduce the risk of contamination of water from carcass pits in outbreaks with African swine fever and to take preparatory action to minimise the risk of contamination of water in the event of the need for the disposal of animals killed, including the carrying out of research and monitoring of built carcass pits; - a requirement by applicants of additional information for accurate assessment under Chapter 6 of the Law on the Protection of the Environment in case of requests for the construction of log pits. 3. Swimming directorates for water management: - requested additional information and made recommendations to the municipalities for carrying out research and establishing their own monitoring in the area of built logs pits; - they planned rapid regular monitoring in the areas identified as risky; - require the determination of property for the disposal of killed animals prior to the coordination of investment proposals for the construction of farms. Regardless of the efforts of the Ministry of Environment and Water, the main responsibility and implementation of the preventive actions is the mayors of municipalities who need to examine the relevant properties and implement the procedures for changing their purpose and in carrying out the disposal, together with BABBH, to ensure the fulfilment of the regulatory requirements and further prescribed measures for environmental and water protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u109	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, in 2019 neither the ministries nor the crisis headquarters that was created were prepared for what happened. The animal disposal sites turned out to be one of the serious problems we destroyed the animals much easier, but for the playgrounds the problems remained because there was resistance in almost the whole country for the places that were mentioned. According to your statement, 60% of these sites from the municipalities were rejected during the peak of the plague, which means that there was no willingness to react, provided that African swine fever was known and was coming to Bulgaria at least the last 2. 3 years. These were the indications that we would not be passed. I would like to begin by saying that all leading specialists define animal disposal as one of the options, and that when there are force majeure circumstances. It is treated as biologically hazardous waste, so burning is the most recommended and in almost all countries in Europe this is done. We have moved on to an extermination that has created a problem in finding the sites, but will also create a problem in the future, because these sites are potentially dangerous to both the economy in the areas in which they are made, as well as for people, given the long action that animal disposal has on nature. Our further questions to you: First of all, do you have any readiness on the territory of the whole country to know which playgrounds will be, because in 2020, no one can say, but there is a high probability of repeating the picture in the summer? I mean, are there certain sites that meet all the requirements? Are they compatible with the requirements of leading experts in Europe and China, especially who say that the burial should by no means be at the sites where African plague has been detected because the spread line is practically continuing. Is there a map of the playgrounds and markings at the locations? Are they surrounded, are they monitored on these sites where there is an extermination? The reason for asking these many questions is really the concern that if African plague is contained in some form or reduced its impact, these sites will be potentially dangerous in a very long period of time. And that is why efforts must be made. The Central Epizootic Headquarters has precisely such commitments to coordinate the activities of different ministries, including municipalities, so that risks can be minimized in every respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u111	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u112	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Bachvarova! Perhaps three quarters of the questions you asked are outside the competence of the Ministry of Environment and Water. When we talk about the monitoring that you mentioned and which is key, speaking of the already executed pits, there are also the mayors of the municipalities, respectively, of the settlements that have pointed to these places. The Ministry of Environment and Water through pool Directorates and Regional Inspections has monitored and, as you have quite rightly achieved, we are talking about about about 64 - 65% refusal, about 34 - 35% approved in accordance with the powers and competences that have pool departments and regional inspections. Whether or not there is a similar crisis ahead, there is no way I can tell you this is something that is entirely outside the field of knowledge that is in the Ministry of Environment and Water. Monitoring is undoubtedly important whether we are ready or not for the next playgrounds in the past year, that is, this year, which is already ending, there was a force majeure situation, as you yourself said, and in this force majeure situation was being acted in the possible way. Whether it's better to burn, to bury, again I say, it's out of the question that I can comment on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u113	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimov. We move on to the next issue by the National Representative Nadia Klisurska concerning the project "Ecological disposal of obsolete pesticides and other plant protection products with an expired expiry date" under the Bulgarian-Swiss Cooperation Programme in the municipality of Strelcha. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u114	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I stand on this platform on the occasion of the thousands of signals of residents of Smilets village, the municipality of Strelcha, who are concerned that, Dear Minister, for two years you of this tribune promised the inhabitants of Smilets village that the dangerous pesticides that are located in their territory will be exploited. I will turn back history and say that back in 2014 the project "Ecological disposal of hazardous pesticides and other plant protection products with expired expiry on the Bulgarian-Swiss programme began with a feasibility study and in April 2015 a contract was concluded on this project and the deadline for implementation was now concluded in December 2019. Over these five years, more than 4 thousand had to be secured. tons of hazardous pesticides throughout the country in 100 municipalities and around 215 warehouses. The municipality of Strelcha and the warehouse in the village of Smilets fell into the target group. Unfortunately for me 2017, when I asked you this question, and 2018, when I asked it again, now I ask it for the third time, you promised the residents of the village of Smilets that their storeroom for dangerous pesticides would be disabled. The project ended, we saw the closing conference, we saw after all what happened, the municipality of Strelcha falls into Lot 4 together with Sofia, Pernik and Blagoevgrad. I have signals from other settlements in the country where these dangerous warehouses have not been secured, even though contracts have been concluded for the territories of these warehouses. In this regard, my question, Minister Dimov: what did certain municipalities need not be covered under this project? What is the reason why they are surrounded at the expense of others? What will the Ministry do in this direction in order to actually happen in those municipalities that you missed? And, basically, I hope that things really have a final, final conclusion, so that all the municipalities in which dangerous pesticides are stored, their real warehouses will be secured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u115	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Dimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u116	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Klisurska! The activities related to the disposal of old pesticides on the territory of the country are implemented within the framework of the Project, which you yourself quoted under the Bulgarian-Swiss Programme, and the purpose of this project was to defuse 4 thousand. 388 tonnes of pesticides that are throughout the country. Pesticides shall be disposed of in special incinerators for hazardous waste located in Germany, Belgium and Switzerland. All project activities, namely repackaging, transport, submission for final disposal and cleaning of stocks containing pesticides, hazardous waste, non-hazardous waste and other plant protection preparations, shall be carried out in compliance with and the requirement of a high level of control. At present, of those 4,000. 388 tonnes of pesticides on the project have been cleared 3,000. 861 tonnes of.. these are figures by 31 October, which is the latest information, in November to 7 December, when it expires, I will have additional information, i.e. this figure will be increased. The project includes two warehouses located on the territory of Strelcha municipality. It is very important to draw attention here to the fact that, in the course of the implementation of the above activities, much larger quantities of pesticides have been found in the warehouses than initially provided for in this draft, which you yourself talked about. This, in turn, caused a change in the course of the work of cleaning the warehouses, as the resource was limited to the resources of the Bulgarian-Swiss programme, the larger quantities of pesticides available in the warehouses, for its part, and the reason the financial resource did not reach. The experts from the PDOOS worked daily to maximize the volume of waste that can be transported. What we did at the last meeting of the PUDO for this year is that we adopted an indicative budget of BGN 5 million for the following year, with which all warehouses that could not be covered due to the lack of resources from the Bulgarian-Swiss programme should be continued to finance them for disposal in 2020. Whether these BGN 5 million would reach If it turns out that the volumes are higher again, we will be looking for an additional resource within the financial year, but it is a fact that in places where we had information about one volume, it turned out to be 50 to 100 percent larger what we have done so far. Our goal is to complete all warehouses that were provided under the Bulgarian-Swiss programme with funding from the PUDOS in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u117	Thank you, dear Minister. You have a replica, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u118	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I am not satisfied with your reply because, Dear Minister, you know that when the contracts with the municipalities were concluded, they all had signed declarations of their consent to include the warehouses located in their territory, as well as the quantities of pesticides stored in them. This declaration explicitly stated that if there are pesticides that are more than what is at stake under the Project, this funding will not be taken over under the Project. I am even more perplexed by the fact that last year on 15 October, when the Lot 4 contract was concluded, where it falls within the scope of Pazardzhik and Strelcha municipality, the deadline for the implementation of the activities is 15 months and the end of the project is 7 December. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Whoever listens and looks knows that these 15 months go beyond the scope, which means that a large part of the fact that public procurement procedures were ultimately extremely delayed over time, 2015 I very much hope that the PUDO will actually do what you say in the following calendar year, but I give you one signal: when the warehouse in Smilets is checked and checked at the end of October, then this warehouse is broken down, most likely by the performers and is currently standing open. Most likely there are other such warehouses, you know that these warehouses in most of the municipalities are not secure, the roofs are running and there is a great danger of entering these pesticides into the soils. So I hope that at the beginning of the next calendar year all these activities will begin and not wait for any funds to come to the Ministry so that you can do your job quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u119	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u120	Dear Mrs. Klisurska, first of all, let us be clear that the owners of these warehouses are responsible for them. The fact that the State has committed itself to helping in this process does not make the owners' responsibility less. If we return to the implementation of the Project, on your proposal, all open warehouses should remain at the level of, for example, exported 80%, remaining 20%, that is, there would be no finished warehouse anywhere in the country. Of course, it is much better to complete all warehouses, although with larger quantities to be exported within the closure of the warehouse and cleaning, because otherwise we would have remained with small quantities in almost all warehouses. It's just not reasonable and it's not practically right. The fact is, public procurement has been delayed a lot. The fact is, there's been more than a year of appeal. The fact is that what I told you about the PUDO will once again be a public procurement, it will be announced as early as January, but that does not mean that it will be concluded immediately, given again the likelihood of an appeal. If there is no appeal, of course, it will be made immediately. If there is an appeal, I cannot in any way wait for the court's ruling. It just can't happen, it's the laws in this country, and we all have to comply with them. And the pesticide problem is undoubtedly serious, and that is why we have taken this decision. It's not a daredevil, it's taken! And from the budget of the PDOOS next year will be allocated at least these five million leva, which to date should reach for all warehouses that were under the Bulgarian-Swiss program. There are others out there. Other means will be sought for them, because ultimately the disinfects in Switzerland, in France, in Germany are extremely expensive, not that in Bulgaria they would be cheaper, but there is no place where they can be burned. From this point of view, the commitment I can make on behalf of the PUDOS is for these five million, and if they do not, we should look for a reserve within 2020 to end everything related to the Bulgarian-Swiss programme. From then on, we will continue to look for a solution to the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u121	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the next question by the MP Mihail Hristov on measures to prevent environmental crisis in the village of Borov Dol. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u122	Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! In fact, I asked the exact same question yesterday, but it was to Minister Mladen Marinov. It's about something that happened at the end of July 40 trucks, or about 140 tons of corpses from the American mink were buried in a mine near the village of Borov dol. Near the mine itself there is also a mineral spring in which water is bottled. My question to you is: what measures did your Ministry take, and what did you find out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u123	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Dimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u124	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Hristov! On 30 July 2019 regarding information from the public television bTV about the illegal disposal of animals in the area of the mineyard "Borov dol" in the village of Borov dol, the municipality of Tvarditsa, a check was carried out by the Basin Directorate of the Eastern Sea Region in the presence of a representative of the Municipality of Tvarditsa to establish the presence of water sites near the site of the burial. In the course of the inspection in the region of Rudnik, Borov dol is located the site of the burial site near the locality of the Livadite and the open mine house of Borov dol, in the land of the village of Borov dol, dedicated to the concession of the town of Sliven. Excavations and artificial deposits have been established. No gorge or mountain rivers have been detected through the site. It has been found that the nearest site of the burial is a ravine of the luch dere, a flood of the river Domuz dere, which flows into the river Belenska. In order to establish the quality of the water on 31 July 2019 a sample was carried out by the Regional Laboratory of the Executive Environment Agency in Stara Zagora for chemical analysis and by RZI Sliven for the microbiological condition. Representatives of the Swimming Directorate are present during the event,........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The surface water body of the river and its water tank is defined in good condition and there are no deviations in the biochemical parameters. The results of the chemical composition study for water samples taken on 31 July 2019 show no contamination. There are no deviations from the values of quality indicators according to Ordinance No 12 on quality requirements for surface water intended for drinking water. The results are similar to those of regular monitoring of water from the river Domuz dere The information submitted and the reports of the tests carried out on the chemical composition of the waters in the area of illegal disposal shall be sent in due time to the investigating authorities of the pre-trial proceedings on the basis of art. 178, para. 2 of the PPC and following the instructions of the monitoring prosecutor. The disposal of animal by-products and products derived from them, as well as the protection of the environment from the harmful effects of livestock farming and related production, is within the competence of the Regional Directorate for Food Safety, Sliven. As a result of the checks carried out by the structures of the Ministry of Environment and Water, no pollution of water and soil has been detected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u125	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u126	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I'd like to thank you for doing your job, so to speak, but this is a very large amount of corpses from the American mink. As we know, there are only two farms in Bulgaria that are engaged in this activity, or there is another one that is illegal. But here the question is really to test the water regularly, because this huge amount is drinking into the ground, and at least it is not regulated. Thank you. Colleagues, I wish you: Happy Holidays! " - Despite our political differences, we, first of all, are people. Good luck. I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u127	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. A hole? You don't want to. The next question is from the National Representative Alexander Matsurev on Operational Programme "Environment" in Blagoevgrad district. Here you go. ALEXANDER MATSUREV (GERB): Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! The waste reduction process is a task for every Bulgarian municipality. The implementation of projects that allow for their separate collection or processing reduces the cost of disposal and, together, in a modern and environmental way, makes them a raw material that can be effectively used. This is also in the priorities of the Operational Programme "Environment 2014 " 2020". As a member of parliament elected by Blagoevgrad, I ask this parliamentary question to make it clear how many such projects are being implemented and at what stage their realization is, because with their completion many costs will be saved and a modern way of treatment of waste in the field will be created. In this regard, I would like to ask you the following questions: How many contracts have been concluded in Blagoevgrad with Operational Programme "Environment" which concern the implementation of projects for construction of systems for composting, separation and recycling of waste and in which municipalities? At what stage is their implementation and what are the expected benefits for the population in the respective municipalities? What is the total value of the grant financial assistance that provides the Operational Programme for the implementation of these projects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u128	Thank you, dear Matsurev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u129	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Matsurev! Under Priority Axis No 2 "Dumpage" of the Operational Programme "Environment 2014" " 2020" in Blagoevgrad District five administrative contracts for grant financial assistance were concluded, with the total amount of the grant granted being just over 60 million. lv. The following two projects are implemented on the territory of Blagoevgrad Municipality: First, Project "Design and build anaerobic installation for separately collected biodegradable waste for the regional waste management system of the Region of Blagoevgrad." The amount of the grant is 30.1 million. lv. The procedure under the Public Procurement Act has been completed and a contract with a contractor is to be concluded. The second project in the area is the Project and construction of additional infrastructure. The installation for pre-treatment of municipal waste and composting installation for separately collected biodegradable and/or green waste, for the development of the regional waste management system of Blagoevgrad region, including municipalities Blagoevgrad, Simitli, Rila, Kocherinovo and Boboshevo. The amount of the grant is nearly 9 million. lv. The site was granted a building permit from 14 June 2019 by the main architect of Blagoevgrad Municipality and was drawn up Act No 2 of 16 September 2019 to open a construction site and define a construction line and level. Preparation, construction and installation of the main technical infrastructure were carried out. Secondly, an investment project for separately collected green and biodegradable waste, pre-treatment installations for municipal waste and supporting infrastructure for the Regional Waste Management System of Sandanski, Strumyani and Kresna is implemented in the municipality of Sandanski. The amount of the grant is 7 million. lv. The project is in the final stage of implementation. The activities are expected to be completed by mid-February 2020. Third, Project "Design and build a composting installation and pre-treatment plant for domestic waste in Petrich Municipality" is implemented in the territory of Petrich Municipality. The amount of the grant is 7.1 million. lv. The construction works are currently carried out in accordance with the clauses of the contract concluded with a contractor. Fourth, in the territory of the municipality of Gotse Delchev is implemented the project "Development of pre-treatment and composting installation within the Regional Waste Management System in Gotse Delchev Region." The amount of the grant is 6.8 million. lv. The project activities are in the design phase. In conclusion, the implementation of the above measures will contribute to compliance with the waste management hierarchy in Blagoevgrad, creating conditions and prerequisites for preventing their formation, preparation for reuse, recycling, other recovery, for example for obtaining energy, disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u130	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Matsurev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I use the opportunity to reply to thank you for your comprehensive response. A lot of municipalities have really taken advantage of the opportunity. I hope there will be another opportunity in the future for the other municipalities to apply and implement projects, because this is extremely important not only for municipalities such as municipalities, but also for all of us Bulgarian citizens. My appeal to the Ministry of Environment and Water, and in particular to you as Minister, is for your assistance and appropriate control. Thank you for your attention. I wish: Lights and happy holidays!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u132	Thank you, dear Matsurev. The next question is from the MP Desislava Todorova on the regulation on mineral water concessions. Here you go, Mrs. Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u133	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! The Law on concessions shall not apply to concessions for mineral water extraction which, under art. 25, para. 2 of the Law on concessions is granted and implemented under the terms and conditions of the Law on Waters. With the entry into force of the new Law on concessions, it is necessary to set up a special regulation on the granting of concessions for mining of mineral waters, exclusive State ownership and public municipal property, the modification and termination of concession contracts. The business initiative and development of the mineral water business awaits the adoption of this regulation by the Council of Ministers. So my question is this: at what stage is the preparation of the regulation on mineral water concessions?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u134	Thank you, dear Mrs. Todorova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u135	Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Todorova! In accordance with art. 25, para. 2 of the Law on concessions, in force from 2 January 2018, concessions for mineral water extraction are granted and implemented under the terms and conditions of the Water Act, with § 9 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on concessions being amended and supplemented by the Water Act. According to the provisions of art. 47, para. 1 of the Water Act concession for the extraction of mineral water, exclusive state ownership and public municipal property, is granted after carrying out preparatory actions and carrying out a procedure. The procedure for the preparation and implementation of the procedure for granting the concession, as well as for the implementation, modification and termination of concession contracts for mineral water shall be determined by Decree of the Council of Ministers. By order of the Minister of Environment and Water was established an interdepartmental working group for the preparation of a draft regulation under art. 47, para. 1 of the Water Act. Following external coordination of the draft regulation, the comments received were reflected. We had a public discussion in the order of art. 26 of the Law on the Legislative Acts of the revised draft regulation. The draft regulation was reviewed and adopted this Wednesday at a meeting of the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u136	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Todorova? There won't be a line. Thank you. And the last question for today I don't see Mrs. Pesheva, maybe a little late. I ask the Quaestors to invite her. [[National Representative Elena Pesheva enters the hall.]] We move on to the issue from the National Representative Elena Pesheva regarding the termination of the procedure for renewal of a concession contract in the territory of the village of Belashtitsa of an investor "Holsim Career Materials Plovdiv" AD with new 15 years. Here you are, Mrs. Pesheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u137	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! As a Member of the National Assembly from the Sixteenth Multiannual Election Region, I express my concern for the residents of the localities in the village of Belashtitsa. Mass protests against pollution resulting from the extraction of natural resources in the vicinity of the village of Belashtitsa continue and no measures have been taken, and even on the contrary the concession contract of the investor will be renewed. It is extremely worrying to me and to the residents of the area the content of the letter received at the town hall of Belashtina village, No E-08-00-270 of 28 October 2019 by the Minister of Energy concerning the investment proposal. It clearly states that due to the existence of geological reserves in the field and indicated by the investor, an average annual yield, even after this possible renewed contract of 15 years, would remain an outstanding amount which could be the subject of a subsequent contract in the section of the "Northern. It appears that it is a formal procedure concerning long-term periods of extraction activity, which does not take into account the changes and damage to the landscape, the infrastructure development of settlements, the impact of long-term breakthrough-explosive activities in the years on groundwater and the danger of landslides in the region. It is also not taken into account that in recent years the residential territory of our settlements has expanded progressively in close proximity to the existing locality, which has a direct impact on the health and quality of life of the adjoining population. It is also worrying that over 50 years of exploitation of the property lacks monitoring data from the competent authorities on the effect of this huge territorial yield on all environmental indicators to justify the existence of the quarry. Nor is the fact that in recent years the residential territory has expanded progressively. By Decision No 286, adopted by Protocol No 18 of 29 November 2018, the Municipal Council of Rhodopes, Plovdiv District, also expressed its strong disagreement and opposition to the extraction of underground riches in the village of Belashtitsa. In this regard, my question to you is will the opinion on the environmental impact assessment be negative, taking into account the above-mentioned worrying facts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u138	Thank you, dear Mrs. Pesheva. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u139	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Pesheva, in RIEW Plovdiv, on 7 June 2019 was submitted a notice for the extension of the concession for the extraction of construction materials from the locality of Belashtitsa in PI 03304.31.1, village of Belashtitsa, municipality of Rodopi. In compliance with the regulatory requirements for Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), the notification was sent to the Basin Directorate of the East-West-West Sea Region (SWD) Plovdiv, for an opinion on competence on the eligibility of the investment proposal in relation to the regimes defined in the established river basin management plan and flood risk management plans. In view of the additional information requested by the Swimming Directorate of the contracting entity, a period of 30 days has been set for its provision, which has been extended by another three months at its request. On 29 November 2019 in RIEW Plovdiv, the requested information was submitted by the contracting authority and was submitted to the Basin Directorate for Opinion on the eligibility of the investment proposal on 5 December 2019. In concluding that the investment proposal is inadmissible in relation to the measures to achieve good water status or bans and restrictions in the Water Act, the procedure in RIEW Plovdiv will be terminated. In this case, the concession contract on the territory of the village of Belashtitsa should not be renewed. In conclusion of the eligibility of the investment proposal RIEW, Plovdiv will conduct the procedure to assess the need to carry out an environmental impact assessment. In the course of the procedure, the documentation is mandatory to be provided to the Regional Health Inspectorate Plovdiv for an opinion to determine the need to carry out EIA with regard to the degree of significance of the impact and risk to human health. In the event that RHI Plovdiv expressed an opinion on a risk to human health, the procedure continued with the preparation of an EIA report including an assessment of the health of the affected population. At each stage of the EIA procedure, the documentation shall be made public on the website of the RIEW and by the mayors of the settlements concerned, with the participation of the public concerned, taking into account the proposals, recommendations, opinions and objections expressed by the public. The EIA decision shall be issued taking into account not only the EIA documentation but all the opinions received during the procedure, including the results of the public consultation. The nature of the EIA Decision is mandatory for the non-approval of the implementation of the investment proposal where a reasoned opinion by the RGI is expressed that a significant negative impact and the occurrence of a risk to human health of its implementation is assumed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u140	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimov. Here you are, Mrs. Pesheva, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u141	Dear Minister, as you already know, I have personally come to talk to you and before with the Initiative Committee, we have met with Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova. This problem has been going on for over a year and a half, not to say nearly two. In the next 50 years of exploitation, which already exists on these careers, how can so many years not have an opinion of RZI, the Swimming Directorate? Nowhere has there been any mention of whose responsibility is to ensure that studies have not been carried out so far and that there is no available data from monitoring the environmental parameters.... impact on air pollution, noise, vibrations from explosive-protective activities, as well as effects on groundwater. There are landslides in the region, and there is no study of landscape, flora and fauna. My personal opinion is that I do not believe that the State has entered its role and to this point not to have such opinions drawn up, given the many fines which have been committed against the concessionaire, which are for dusting and so on...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... lv. fines, $5,000. lv. fines. I believe that all interested parties have repeatedly submitted complaints and opinions on this issue. And the EIA is currently underway, but let's just say that the EIA is paying for it, which means are we sure that this EIA would come out negative after........................................... the EIA is paying for it................................................. is paying it?.......................................................................................................................................... When will the state come into its role and take responsibility for what is happening? This is about five settlements, the whole city of Plovdiv, which is the dirtiest city in Europe. I believe that if you and the Ministry of Energy and not to transfer the ball, the Ministry of Environment and Water should first have given an opinion to make this EIA and then the Energy Department decide whether to continue the contract or not. The contract expires in 2021. The option of 15 years is an option for continuation. I think there are enough arguments, there is no need to constantly make new ones, as they have been standing for more than a year and a half the same, to stop this career on its expiry date in 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u142	Thank you, dear Mrs. Pesheva. Mr. Minister, for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Pesheva, it is not a question of good and bad desire, of legal or illegal conduct. We are currently in a procedure, and I explained this procedure how it will end and how it will go.. the most important so that it can end. When we had a meeting with you, perhaps a few months ago, together with representatives of the Initiative Committee, I said very clearly: the EIA procedure is a fact that it is entrusted by...................................................................................... It is normal to have different institutions in their competence to provide answers. The Ministry of Energy does not normally transfer the ball, but says: as long as there is no EIA, we will not continue. Because EIA is the one that says whether it can be there or not, and under what conditions there can be a continuation of investment intent. The regional inspection shall address everyone when making EIAs to all interested, such as the Swimming Directorate, as is RZI, as is the local authority, including public access. So these are procedures and we need to take these procedures seriously. When this career was resolved before the years you said these procedures were probably not available. Now they are available and within these procedures we have cases in which they are refused. Perhaps I should recall: recently, the gas extraction procedure in Northeastern Bulgaria was given as a result of public opinion, as a result of the public discussion there was a negative decision on EIA. So at the moment there are all possibilities in this procedure to hear all the opinions and to make the right decision. I pointed out, for a reason, that if the R & D health inspection came up with an opinion that there is a risk to people's health, the EIA should be negative in such an opinion because such a risk cannot be assumed. Thank you very much. I would like to address all Members of the National Assembly and wish you a happy holiday! The most beautiful Christian holidays are coming to you to be alive and well and, as they say, to see you again next year!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u144	Thank you, dear Minister. We thank Minister Neno Dimov for participating in today's parliamentary control and him to wish him a bright holiday and a happy New Year! We continue with a question to the Minister of Justice Mr. Daniel Kirilov. The issue is from the MP Krum Zarkov on the risk of a procedure against Bulgaria by the anti-corruption group of the Council of Europe Greco because of recent legislative changes allowing unlimited funding of political parties from private individuals. Here you are, Mr. Zarkov, you will close the season with Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u145	Thank you, Madam President. We have this honor indeed. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, there has been information in the public domain that the Group of States Against Corruption, known more as Greco, has shown interest in the Council of Europe in the legislative changes by which the ruling majority has allowed unlimited funding of political parties from natural and legal persons, i.e. private entities. To the best of your knowledge, you have informed about this interest and the management of the National Assembly. This, of course, is hardly surprising, given that it was precisely the limitation of the possibility of private funding on the part of Bulgarian political parties that was among the achievements noted in Greco's reports and which ultimately led to conclusions of sufficient implementation of its recommendations and the removal of the so-called monitoring. Since such a retreat from the indisputable achievements of the Bulgarian legislation can lead to Bulgaria being subjected to new monitoring procedures with all the negative consequences for our country's image, I ask you to answer the following questions: during the last plenary meeting of the Group of States against Corruption, held between 2 December and 6 December in Strasbourg, have recent amendments to the Bulgarian legislation concerning party financing by private individuals been debated? In case the question was really discussed, what position did the Bulgarian delegation express there? And perhaps most importantly: what measures will the government take to prevent the initiation of a procedure against Bulgaria as a country that has violated international anti-corruption standards in the field of party financing?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u147	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Zarkov, I do confirm your information that there have been media publications regarding the interest of the Group of States against Corruption Greco on the issue of the July amendments to the Election Code and the Law on Political Parties. After Greco's request was received in the Ministry of Justice, as stated in a publication of the newspaper "Capital" dated 9 December, I sent a letter to the President of the National Assembly with a copy to the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs, who is the national coordinator for anti-corruption policies, asking us to get information about the changes and their motives. As you well know, according to parliamentary practice, the established tradition related to the debates and the adoption of the electoral rules, the main body that debates, discusses these changes is the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the occasion of this letter, I received a timely reaction from the President of the National Assembly, which was provided during the Greco meeting within the framework of this. 4 on the agenda: Important developments and events in the member states in the field of anti-corruption. Bulgaria presented to the Group a brief information on: First, the amendments to the Law on Political Parties and the Election Code, which abolished the ban on political parties from receiving donations from legal entities and the limitation on donations from a natural person for a calendar year of 10 thousand. lv. Next, the restrictions introduced in respect of legal persons and sole traders who can make donations, i.e. not having public obligations, are not registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime. With regard to the requirements in force for transparency and publicity of donations, with regard to the reasons for the changes relating to the reduction of the state subsidy for one actual vote received on a proposal from the Council of Ministers in view of the results of the referendum held in 2016, and with regard to the understanding of the parliamentary groups on the need for a future in-depth debate on the reorganization of the system of financing of political parties in order to reach consensus on the matter between parties and civil society, I note that, on the same point on the agenda, on this request of the Bureau, information also provides the delegations of Northern Macedonia, the United States and Montenegro, and Ukraine's delegation refused to provide the information requested by the Bureau. I cannot fully answer the question, but I assure you that we do not have an inverse negative reaction to this reporting, as well as to the four countries that have been interviewed on the same subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u148	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, you have confirmed the interest of the Group of States against corruption and their concern about these changes. We, for our part, had already discussed this project, assured you that this would happen in this very way. From this tribune, I and my colleagues have read the latest reports by Greco since 2015, which have brought down that mechanism, where this issue has been highlighted many times. This isn't about the size of the party subsidy. That's another question. This is only about the question: is it possible, according to anti-corruption standards, private business interests to finance parties? Is this not a threat, on the one hand, that parties will not defend the interests of their constituents, their benefactors, and on the other hand that parties that have power can press the business to demand their donations and thus turn this donation into racketeering? You are rightly saying that the main body that is debating this issue is Parliament, but our whole country will bear the shame of another monitoring mechanism that will affect both our country's situation in the European Union, the Council of Europe and others, and the common way in which our country is viewed. You know we have something to do about it. You have no feedback. I warn you that it is very likely, given the Council of Europe's practice, that we will be subjected to the so-called Adhok procedure and that further inspection teams will be sent here. As you have committed yourself to resign, if the monitoring of the European Union does not fail, it may happen that, instead of failing one monitoring, a second one will appear. This can be avoided, and very rationally, if we accept the proposal we made during the budget, to return the situation to the way it used to be, not in terms of the size of the party subsidy, this issue will be discussed, but in terms of the size of the fact that parties should be publicly funded as the main guarantor of their independence and integrity.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u151	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Zarkov, I confirm that after the hearing of the plenary session, the Anti-Corruption Group has not initiated follow-up or procedures in relation to the information received and the views of the parties. With regard to the government's actions, I believe that no further action by the government is needed. With regard to the transparency and transperance measures of the funding by all persons, I stressed, not by accident, even in the short time for the basic answer, that such restrictions exist both in the current law, the Election Code and in the Law on Political Parties. The point is to follow them strictly, not to surround them, not to place people with social problems who are powerful donors of serious political campaigns. I agree that this is what we need to work on. On the other hand, I rely on the parliamentary debate and on the positions of all parliamentary groups in order to achieve a reasonable balance between the will of voters in the referendum held, where voters confirmed their will for a low rate of subsidy and to achieve transparent rules for financing party activities. It's a question of democracy. In the parliamentary debate you see that we ministers may have a limited and rather serviceable opportunity and attitude. For Greco, I am prepared to secure communication to the best of my ability. I think you are right in your question about the claim that we have fulfilled more than 80% of Greco's criteria in relation to party funding. I agree that we should not take a step back in this regard, but this is a matter of a lengthy parliamentary debate. I hope it comes to the right decision, including wishing success to your communication. I see that in the Chamber is the Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr Vigenin, who had approached the OSS with a similar question, so whatever decisions you make in this Parliamentary Hall, yes, the Bulgarian government will seek the most favorable explanation to our partners and international organizations in this regard. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, allow me to use this case and the opportunity given to congratulate all Members of Parliament with the upcoming bright holidays, to wish for health, success, luck and fruitful legislative activity in 2020! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-20.u152	Thank you, dear Minister. This was the last question about today's parliamentary control, too, for this year. I would also like to wish you a bright Christmas and New Year's holidays and meet you at the next plenary session at 15 January 2020 at 9:00 alive and well and ready to work. I am adjourning today's plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
