ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u1	We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that it be included in the weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly the following additional item: First voting of the Draft Law amending the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, with importers Iskren Veselinov, Alexander Nenkov, Emil Hristov, Krasimir Tzipov and Tanner Ali. I propose that this be the first item for tomorrow's plenary session Friday, 27 October 2019 and the remaining points are renumbered accordingly. Please vote on the proposed proposal. Vote 156 MPs: 147 against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. We continue with the first item of today's agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON THE MARKETS OF FINANCIAL SERVICES. You have the floor from the Budget and Finance Committee, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u2	Dear Mr. President, please allow the representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister, Nadya Daskalova and Elena Petrova, experts in the Directorate of the Financial Markets Regulation and the Financial Supervision Commission: Maria Filipova, Vice-President and Milen Milev, Head of the Department of Normal activities and methodology, as well as Vasil Golemanski, Executive Director of the Central Depository.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u3	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission made in this House. They voted 145 MPs: 135, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Please continue with the presentation of the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u4	Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act, No 902-01-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2019. At a meeting held on 18 September 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by: representatives of the Bulgarian National Bank Desislava Deyanova The bill was presented by Mrs Filipova. The proposed amendments to the Financial Instruments Markets Act clarify provisions already introduced in 2018 the requirements of Directive 2014/65/EU on markets in financial instruments. The new regulatory framework at European Union level in relation to the activities of central securities depositories resulting from Regulation No 909/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on improving securities settlement in the European Union and on central securities depositories (Regulation No 909/2014) imposes measures on the application of the Regulation in the following guidelines: - to remove deficiencies in the institution of the tied agent in cases where the tied agent is a legal person, requirements shall be introduced for persons with qualified participation in the tied agent as well as subsequent approval of the members of its management body; - provisions shall be introduced to specify the Law on Markets in Financial Instruments in accordance with Directive 2014/65/EU on the regulation of the supply of structured deposits by investment firms and banks, as well as to introduce relevant supervisory and monitoring powers of the Financial Supervision Commission and the Bulgarian National Bank; - in view of the importance of the activities of central securities depositories and in order to ensure the protection of financial markets and to create confidence in market participants that transactions in financial instruments are carried out duly and timely, even in emergency situations, measures are introduced by the Bill to ensure continuity of the activities of central securities depositories in accordance with the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014; - the Bill also proposes specific administrative and criminal provisions and other measures applicable to the circumstances referred to in Article 63 of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 as regards persons responsible for infringements of its provisions; - Amendments to the Credit Institutions Act have also been proposed to clearly indicate BNB's supervisory powers in the cases defined by Regulation No 909/2014. In relation to Regulation (EU) No 909/2014, the Law on the Public Offering of Securities is also amended. At present, the status, activity and corporate organisation of the Central Depository is governed by this law as a private entity with a State participation in capital in the face of the Ministry of Finance. The changes aim to arrange for the legal separation of the central register of non-data securities from the activities of the central depository of securities carried out by the Central Depository. No new functions shall be assigned to the Central Depository and the existing functions shall be specified in order to ensure the freedom of issuers to enter their securities into another Central Depository for settlement purposes. In view of the changes mentioned above, the provisions of other laws which refer to the Law on the Public Offering of Securities and the Activity of the Central Depository are reviewed and amendments are provided for in order to adapt to the terminology introduced by Regulation (EU) No 909/2014. The draft amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act is fully in line with Directive 2014/65/EU and Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 and the delegated Directives and regulations thereto governing in full the public relations relating to the trading of securities and the markets in financial instruments. Following the discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Markets in Financial Instruments, No 902-01-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. The Economic Policy and Tourism Committee report will introduce us to Mrs. Saveklieva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act, No 902-01-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2019. At its regular meeting on 25 September 2019, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act. The draft Law, submitted by Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance, introduces the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on improving securities settlement in the European Union and central securities depositories, as well as amending Directives 98/26/EC and 2014/65/EU and Regulation (EU) No 236/2012 (Regulation (EU) No 909/2014), by which European legislation regulates the settlement of non-personal securities and the operation of central securities depositories. It is envisaged that central securities depositories are required to draw up and maintain a recovery plan with content according to art. 8 § 3 of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/392 of 11 November 2016 supplementing Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to regulatory technical standards on the licensing, supervision and operational requirements of central securities depositories ensuring continuity of the operation of the central securities depository. The necessary amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions are also made for these purposes, clearly indicating the powers of the Bulgarian National Bank for the implementation of supervision in the cases defined by the regulation. The Law on the Public Offering of Securities sets out the status and activity of the Central Depository (SSC) as a private entity established by law, with state participation in the capital and corporate organisation of the institution in the face of the Ministry of Finance. The amendments to the Law on the Public Offering of Securities aim to arrange for the legal separation of the function of keeping the central register of non-personal securities from the activities of the central depository of securities carried out by the Central Depository and to ensure legal certainty of these public relations. A central repository of securities led by the Central Depository is established, which includes non-available securities issued by companies based in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as issuers whose securities are issued under the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria. In order to adapt to the terminology introduced by Regulation (EU) No 909/2014, amendments to the Commercial Law, the Civil Procedure Code, the Law on the limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business, the Law on the judiciary, the Law on special bets, the Code on Social Security, the Insurance Code, the Commission on Financial Supervision, the Act on the activity of collective investment schemes and other undertakings for collective investment and others are envisaged. In the course of the discussion Vassil Golemanski Executive Director of the Central Depository (SSC), answered a question of the National Representative Dimitar Danchev about the function of the Central Register of Inpersonal Securities, its content and the need for its separation. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act, No 902-01-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveclieva. The Commission's First Voting Report on Legal Affairs. Who will present the report? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, your attention ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act, No 902-01-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2019. At its meeting held on 18 September 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act, No 902-01-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2019. The meeting was attended by: Ms. Marinella Petrova, Deputy Minister, Mrs. Hristina Penditcheva and Ms. Nadya Daskalova, State experts in the Directorate of Finance Regulation of Financial Markets and by the Financial Supervision Commission, Mrs. Maria Filipova, Vice-President and Managing Director, Mrs. Desislava Laskova, Head of Financial Intermediaries, Joint Investments and Financial Markets, Ms. Martina Savcheva, Senior Expert in Investment Intermediaries, Financial Instruments Markets and Investigation and Mrs. Milen Velev, Head of the Department of Normative Activity and Methodology. The bill was presented by Mrs Filipova, who pointed out that it introduced measures for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on improving securities settlement in the European Union and for central securities depositories, as well as amending Directives 98/26/EC and 2014/65/EU and Regulation (EU) No 236/2012. The Bill regulates the activities of central securities depositories by ensuring the proper, timely and continuous closure of securities transactions and introducing requirements for the provision of financial and business information by drawing up financial statements, business plan and recovery plan. In accordance with Regulation (EU) No 909/2014, the Financial Supervision Commission has been designated to carry out the functions of licensing and supervision of the activities of central securities depositories and, when carrying out banking and ancillary banking-type services, this task has been entrusted to the Bulgarian National Bank. The establishment of a central repository of securities led by the Central Depository is proposed, which includes all securities issued by companies based in the Republic of Bulgaria and placed in circulation under the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is envisaged that the Central Depository shall record information on the central securities depositories and their recorded securities issues such as the registration, keeping, keeping and access to the register will be carried out under rules approved in advance by the Financial Supervision Commission. The bill contains administrative criminal provisions and measures ensuring the application of the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014, regulates the institution of the tied agent and introduces the requirements of Directive 2014/65/EU on the supply of structured deposits by investment firms and banks, and provides for control functions of the Financial Supervision Commission and the Bulgarian National Bank. In the discussion took part the People's Representative Alexander Ivanov, who expressed his support for the Bill. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes for......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. You have the floor to present the report, Mr. Stoinev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act, No 902-01-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2019. At its regular meeting held on 25 September 2019, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft for amendment and supplement of the Financial Instruments Markets Act, No 902-01-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2019. The draft was presented by Marinela Petrova Deputy Minister of Finance. The meeting was attended by Hristina Penditcheva, State Expert at the Department of Financial Markets and by the Ministry of Finance, Nadya Daskalova, State Expert at the Directorate of Finance Regulation at the same Ministry, and Elena Petrova, State Expert at the Directorate of Finance Regulation at the same Ministry. Representatives of the Central Depository took part in the participation: Vasil Golemanski Executive Director, Dobri Varadev Executive Director of the Department of Legal Supervision, Georgi Karadzhov Director of the Directorate of Registrys and Settlements, Maria Theodosieva Legal Consult, as well as representatives of the Financial Supervision Commission, Maria Filipova Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, Head of the Management Board, Desislava Laskova Head of the Department of Investment Intermediaries, collective investment enterprises and markets of financial instruments, Martina Savcheva and Milen Milen Milev. The draft law amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act in the Bulgarian legislation introduces measures on the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on improving securities settlement in the European Union and on central securities depositories, as well as amending Directives 98/26/EC and 2014/65/EU and Regulation (EU) No A requirement is introduced for central securities depositories to draw up and maintain a recovery plan with content according to art. 8 paragraph 3 of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/392 of 11 November 2016 supplementing Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to regulatory technical standards on the licensing, supervision and operational requirements of central securities depositories ensuring continuity of the operation of the central securities depository. Currently, the status and activity of the Central Depository is regulated in the Public Offering of Securities Act, as a private entity established by law, with state participation in the capital and corporate organisation of the institution in the face of the Ministry of Finance. At the same time, since Regulation No 909/2014, which lays down a number of requirements for the operation of central securities depositories, requires amendments to the national legislation governing such relations. The draft Law also removes some shortcomings in the transposition of Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments and amending Directive 2002/92/EC and Directive 2011/61/EU and precises its implementation in Bulgarian legislation. As a result of the introduction of the amendments, it is expected to improve regulatory regulation, as securing the implementation of Regulation No 909/2014 leads to a higher level of security and transparency in financial markets and a higher level of protection for consumers of financial services. At the same time, the introduction of the refined legislation aimed at remedying deficiencies in the implementation of Directive 2014/65/EU is expected to establish a higher level of investor protection. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposed by 6 votes for the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act, No 902-01-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. I'm opening the debate on the bill. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act with No 902-01-45, tabled by the Council of Ministers. They voted 131 MPs: for 123, against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. We continue with a second item on the agenda for our work today: PROJECT OF A DECISION ON THE WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION FOR OCTOBER 2019 I'll introduce you to: Project! DECISION for the work of the National Assembly in October 2019 The National Assembly on the basis of art. Art. 74, Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. The National Assembly shall not hold plenary meetings from 16 to 25 October 2019 inclusive. 2. In the period referred to in point (a) of this paragraph, the following conditions shall apply: 1 meetings of the parliamentary committees shall be held. 3. In the period referred to in point (a) of this paragraph, the following conditions shall apply: 1 of the Members of the National Assembly shall be recognised transport costs incurred only on the occasion of participation in the meetings of the Parliamentary Committees. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. They voted 132 MPs: 99, against 29, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW PROJECT FOR PUBLICS. Importer is the Council of Ministers. He was accepted in the first vote in July 2019. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am making a personal proposal by proposing that the National Assembly take a decision to postpone this item from the agenda for the next working week. My motives are as follows: firstly, the Public Enterprises Act is new. It is considered in only three permanent committees and affects a wide range of social economic relations. Second, the Law sets up a new legal entity, a public undertaking providing a public service, not specifically mentioned the transformation and termination of that type of legal entity. Thirdly, I believe that it takes more time to familiarize the MPs with the proposed bill and the report of the leading Committee for Second Reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Inverse opinion, reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 134 MPs: 47, against 61, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. Mrs. Saveklieva, please present the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, first of all, I am doing a procedure on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber by the Ministry of Economy: Lachezar Borisov
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u15	I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission made in this House. Vote 126 MPs: for 123, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u16	On 5 June 2019 the Council of Ministers submitted a report on a Public Enterprises Bill No 902-01-27, adopted by the Council of Ministers on the first vote on 3 July 2019. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. "Chapter 1" - General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter One. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u17	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for the name of the Law, the text of the importer for the name of chapter one and the text of the importer for art. 1. They voted 112 MPs: 106, none, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u18	Under art. 2 has a proposal from Desislav Chukolov and a group of MPs: The Commission supports the proposal. Mr. Chairman, allow me to do an editing of Al. 2 in art. 2. In relation to the preparation of the Draft Law and after discussion with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, I propose in art. 2, the new para. 2 to be amended as follows: The requirements of this law do not apply to the Bulgarian Development Bank. The reasons for the proposal are, above all, for the sake of clarity and for the non-extreme interpretation of the provision. In this way it is clearly said that the only exception to the scope of the Law is the Bulgarian Development Bank as a national bank supporting the economic development of the country, not creating prerequisites for extending the exceptions from the scope of the Law in conflict with its objectives. Moreover, the Bulgarian Development Bank as a national bank is under the supervision of the Bulgarian National Bank and respectively bank supervision. There the selection of managers is regulated very precisely and clearly, and in the Law on Credit Institutions. Here I have to say that the proposal is in agreement with both the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance. They're for this change.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u19	Statements? I won't. How will the text of the entire article sound? Two?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u20	Art. 2. (1) Public undertakings shall be: 1. commercial companies with more than 50 percent state/municipality interest in the capital or in which the State/municipality otherwise exercises a dominant influence; 2. the subsidiaries of the companies under point 2. 1 and the enterprises under point 1. 3 if the State/Municipality controls more than 50 percent of the voting shares/shares or otherwise exercises a dominant influence; 3. state-owned enterprises created by special laws on the basis of art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law. (2) The requirements of this Law shall not apply to the Bulgarian Development Bank.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u21	You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In principle, we support a large part of the texts proposed in this law, for the simple reason that BSP has been insisting for many years on the creation of such a law, which has clear principles and rules of management of public municipal enterprises, with 50% state and municipal property respectively. For many years BSP has proposed such a law, but it was not adopted by the ruling majority of GERB. Now under the pressure of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, however, the law was brought to the attention of the National Assembly. However, we do not sincerely support the lobbying texts. One of these texts is exactly the one in para. 2. In my speech, I wanted to make an explanation of exactly what this is about, but the rapporteur said it. "The Bulgarian Development Bank should be taken out of the scope of this law. This is wrong for us, not to say unacceptable, because the Bulgarian Development Bank is a bank created to support small and medium-sized businesses, and it does not perform the functions for which it was created. Two years ago, the bank's principal was the Ministry of Finance. Then the borrowers from this bank were four five people who are well known also in this hall, which are well known also to the Bulgarian society. Then, two years ago, we supported the proposal that the principle of the Bank become the Ministry of Economy because we believe that it deals with investments, investors and the bank would better perform the functions for which it was created, namely to support the work of small and medium-sized enterprises, small and medium-sized businesses in Bulgaria. Alas, this still doesn't happen. Alas, the Bank continues to be a source of fresh funds for these four or five people who are owners of both the Bank and the State. As I said, these five people you know very well as the whole Bulgarian society knows them. When the new Board of Directors of the Bulgarian Development Bank was appointed, they were at a hearing in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Then I asked the new CEO the following question: as a new guide, do you have any idea to put a ceiling on the loans you are granting? Because the Bank is meant for small and medium business! I gave an example figure of 1 million. lv. He answered the following: The Bulgarian Development Bank is not a quick loan firm, although 1 million. lv. is a pretty serious amount for the size and scale of the Bulgarian business and would help quite seriously small entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, that didn't happen and it still doesn't. For this reason we are against the text of para. 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u23	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the editorial amendments Mrs. Saveklieva proposed. Vote 117 MPs: 89, against 23, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 2 with the amendments already voted on. They voted 107 MPs: 81, against 18, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u24	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u25	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for art. Art. 3 and Art. 4. 110 MPs voted: 103, against 1, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u26	"Chapter 2 " Principles of the exercise of state property on public undertakings. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Two. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u27	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote three texts: the first is the text of the importer for the name of chapter two; and the text of the importer for art. Art. 5 and art. 6. They voted 111 MPs: for 110, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u28	Under art. 7 There is a proposal from Peter Kanev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 7. Art. 7. (1) Public undertakings may be subject to public service obligations or to public policy objectives by the authorities exercising the rights of the State/municipality within their competence or by order determined by law. (2) The obligations under para. 1 shall be specified by reference to the public undertaking, the content of the obligation, the period and the conditions under which it should be met and other conditions, if any. The information shall be published on the website of the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control. (3) The costs of the public undertakings in fulfillment of obligations under para. 1 shall be financed by the State/Municipality budget or by order of law and shall be disclosed in the annual financial statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u29	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission of art. 7 They voted 106 MPs: for 104, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u30	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u31	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. Art. 8 and art. 9. Vote 104 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u32	Under art. 10 there is a proposal from Peter Kanev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10: Art. 10. (1) The Council of Ministers approves a policy for the participation of the state in public enterprises. The policy provides a justification for the reasons why the State is involved in public undertakings and the objectives that this participation is put forward, the role of the State in managing public undertakings, the implementation of the policy, as well as the role and responsibilities of the ministers exercising the rights of the State and other state bodies involved in the implementation. (2) The participation policy of the State in public enterprises shall be developed by the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control in cooperation with the authorities exercising the rights of the State in the undertakings and other state bodies involved in its implementation. (3) The participation policy of the State in public undertakings shall be updated as necessary, but at least every 4 years, on the basis of proposals submitted by the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control. (4) The participation policy of the State in public enterprises shall be published on the websites of the Council of Ministers and of the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u33	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission of art. 10. They voted 101 MPs: 99, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u34	The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Three. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 11: Art. 11. (1) The Agency for Public Enterprises and Control shall perform the functions of a unit which shall coordinate state policy with regard to public undertakings, monitor and report to the Council of Ministers on its implementation. (2) The Executive Director of the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control shall be accountable to the Council of Ministers and shall work under the supervision of the Prime Minister or of a Deputy Prime Minister appointed by him. (3) Members of the Executive Board of the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control shall be appointed to higher education students with a minimum of 10 years of professional experience in the field of finance, government and/or the real economic sector, of which at least three years of office.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u35	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 3 and the version of Article proposed by the Commission. 11. Vote 104 MPs: for 103, there is no abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u36	Under art. 12 There is a proposal from Peter Kanev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be read in conjunction with the proposal referred to in point The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 12: Art. 12. The Agency for Public Enterprises and Control shall carry out the functions under art. 11, para. 1, such as: 1. develop the policy for the participation of the state in public undertakings; 2. monitor the implementation of the State's participation policy in public enterprises and prepare a policy update; 3. assist the authorities exercising the rights of the State in defining the general strategic objectives of the enterprises and the key indicators for the implementation of financial and non-financial objectives in the business programmes of the enterprises; 4. monitor the activity of the public undertakings and prepare a summary report for the previous year in the format and scope set out in the law; 5. co-operation with other state officials administrations, non-governmental and international institutions issues related to the management of public undertakings; 6. publish up-to-date information and reports on the activities of public undertakings, including financial and non-financial information on undertakings; 7. monitor competition procedures for selection and appointment of members of management and control bodies; 8. carry out an assessment of the implementation of the approved business programmes of public undertakings and makes proposals for improving their management; 9. when delegation by the Council of Ministers exercises the rights of the state in public undertakings; 10. upon request assists the municipalities with regard to the management of municipal public enterprises; 11. prepare an assessment and analysis of the approved business programmes of public undertakings and their implementation, as well as recommendations regarding the risks and effects on public finances, including the potential effects and risks on the indicators of general debt and deficit/excess of the government sector; 12. gives instructions on the implementation of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u37	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission of art. 12. Vote 98 MPs: 95, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u38	The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four. Under art. 13 There is a proposal from Peter Kanev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 13: Art. 13. The Council of Ministers exercises the rights of the state in public enterprises. The Council of Ministers may delegate those rights to ministers in accordance with their industry competence and/or to the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u39	Statements? I won't. I put two texts to the vote: the first is the name of the Import Act; the second is the Commission's proposed version of art. 13. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u40	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 14: Art. 14. The Council of Ministers shall: 1. approve a policy for the participation of the State in public undertakings and its update on the basis of the Agency's proposals for public undertakings and control; 2. establish new commercial companies with state participation; 3. approves the general dividend policy. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u41	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote three texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 14; the text of the importer for art. Article 15 16, supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 86 against 1, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u42	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 17: Art. 17. (1) The authority exercising the rights of the State as sole owner of the capital or partner/sharer shall, with the assistance of the Agency for Public Enterprises and control, determine the overall strategic objectives and assess the performance of the undertaking and its management bodies. (2) The authority exercising the rights of the State as sole owner of the capital, respectively the General Assembly, shall approve the business programmes and the key indicators included in them for the performance of financial and non-financial objectives adopted by the Supervisory Board, respectively by the Board of Directors, with the assistance of the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control. (3) The Agency for Public Enterprises and Control shall assess the implementation of approved business programmes of public undertakings. The result of the assessment shall be made available to the authority exercising the rights of the State, together with proposals to improve the management of the public undertaking. (4) The procedure for the conclusion of control contracts with the members of the Supervisory Board, where applicable, and of management contracts with the members of the Board of Directors, shall be governed by the rules of application of the law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u43	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote three texts: the version proposed by the Commission of art. 17; the text of the importer for art. Art. 18 and art. 19, supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 85, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u44	"Chapter 5 " Requirements for management and control bodies and nomination of applicants. Proposal by Petar Kanev and a group of MPs: The title of Chapter 5 is amended as follows: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of Chapter Five: Under art. 20 there is a proposal from Peter Kanev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 20: Art. 20. (1) The manager or member of a collective body for the management and control of a public undertaking may be a Bulgarian citizen or citizen of the European Union, of a State of a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation which: 1. has completed higher education; 2. has at least 5 years of professional experience; 3. is not placed under an obstacle; 4. is not convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature; 5. shall not be deprived of the right to take up the relevant position; 6. has not been declared bankrupt as a sole trader or unlimited responsible partner in a commercial company declared bankrupt if there have remained unsatisfied creditors; 7. was not a member of a management or control body of a company, respectively a cooperative terminated due to bankruptcy in the last 2 years prior to the appointment, if there were remaining unsatisfied creditors; 8. is not husband/wife or person in actual cohabitation, relative on a straight line, on a fourth-degree line, including, and on a matchmaking basis, including, to the second degree, a manager or member of a collective management and control body of the same public undertaking; 9. shall not hold a senior public office under Article 9. 6, para. 1, t. 1.. 38, 41. 45 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property is not a member of the political cabinet and secretary of the municipality. 10. does not carry out commercial transactions on its own or on another's behalf; 11. is not a partner in collections, in command companies and in limited liability companies; 12. is not the manager or member of an executive or control body of another public undertaking; There's been a technical error here. This does not have to be taken into account at the beginning and point 13 should be: "13." meets other requirements laid down in the company's statutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u45	Okay, you're doing an editorial amendment on t. 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u46	(2) The prohibitions under para. 1, t. 10 and 11 shall apply when an activity similar to the activity of the company is carried out. (3) No managers and executive members of the Boards of Directors and of the Boards of Directors who work under a contract of employment or service may be members of the Boards of Directors and of the Boards of Directors.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u47	Statements? I won't. I will first put the proposed editorial amendment to the vote. 90 MPs voted: 88, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I put two texts to the vote: the first is the Commission's proposed version of the name of Chapter Five; the second is the Commission's proposed version of art. 20 with the editorial amendment already voted. Vote 84 MPs: 82, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted. Under art. 21 has a proposal from the MP Alexander Sabanov. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Petar Kanev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 21: Art. 21. (1) All members of the management and control bodies shall be selected and appointed after a contest. The terms and conditions of the competition shall be laid down in the Rules for the Implementation of the Law. (2) The members of the management and control bodies shall be persons of diverse qualifications and professional experience corresponding to the specifics of the activities carried out by the public undertaking concerned, meeting certain criteria with respect to reputation and integrity and may devote sufficient time to the performance of their duties. (3) All representatives of the State in the management and control bodies of the public undertakings shall comply with the requirements of para. 2. The representative of the State shall have the same rights, obligations and responsibilities as the other members of the management and control bodies, including the right to receive remuneration and the obligation not to disclose commercial secrets to the public undertaking. (4) The Boards of Directors, Management Boards and Supervisory Boards may set up special committees among their members, such as remuneration committees or risk management. The Committees shall prepare decisions to be adopted by the relevant councils. The decision-making powers shall not be delegated to committees. The Committees shall be chaired by an independent member of the Council. (5) All councils shall prepare annual self-assessments of their activity and effectiveness, which shall be submitted to the authority exercising the rights of the State and the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u48	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Alexander Sabanov. They voted 82 MPs: 21, against 16, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to a vote the Commission has proposed an amendment to art. 21. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u49	Under art. 22 There is a proposal from Peter Kanev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 22: Art. 22. (1) In the Boards of Directors and the Supervisory Boards of Public Enterprises, independent members shall be not less than one third but not more than one second of the composition. (2) The Boards of Directors and the Supervisory Boards of Public Enterprises, which shall be composed of at least five members. The President of the Council must be an independent member.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for art. 22. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u51	Under art. 23 there is a proposal from the MP Petar Kanev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 23: Art. 23. (1) Independent members shall meet the requirements of art. 20. (2) An independent member may not be: 1. employee of the public undertaking; 2. shareholder/partner in the same public undertaking; 3. a person who personally or through related persons has commercial relations with the public undertaking; 4. sole trader, shareholder or partner in a trading company which has the same or similar subject-matter of activity as the public company; 5. a related person with another member of the management or control body of the public undertaking. (3) No independent members shall be representatives of the State in the management and control bodies. (4) The members of the board of directors of the joint stock companies with two-tier structure shall be independent of the State, respectively from the municipality.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u52	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for art. 23. Vote 88 MPs: 85 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u53	Under art. 24 there is a proposal from the MP Petar Kanev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of art. 24: Art. 24. (1) The management and control contract of a manager or member of a collective body for management and control of a public undertaking shall be terminated early on: 1. death; 2. submitting an application for exemption; 3. objective inability to perform its duties for more than 6 months; 4. conviction of a deliberate crime of a general nature; 5. incompatibility with the requirements of art. Art. 20, Art. 23, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 6. serious infringement or systematic failure to comply with the duties; 7. entry into force of an act establishing a conflict of interest under the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. (2) Except in the cases under para. 1, the contract may be terminated early and upon dismissal due to non-compliance with the indicators set out in the approved business programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u54	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for art. 24. Vote 80 MPs: 76, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u55	Article 25 The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle, but proposes to reject it as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 22. Article 26 The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 21. Article 27 "The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject Articles 25, 26 and 27 as they are reflected in their systematic locations. Vote 81 MPs: for 80, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u57	sixth "Accounting and Auditing." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Six.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u58	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of Chapter Six. Vote 79 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u59	Under art. 28 has a proposal from the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 28, which becomes art. 25: Art. 25. The accounting of public undertakings shall be carried out in accordance with the Accounting Act. Public undertakings shall draw up their financial statements on the basis of National Accounting Standards or International Accounting Standards in accordance with the requirements of the Accounting Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u60	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, we from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria are against the text of this article. Article 28 (b) (i) and (ii) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 25 because it proposes the following: public undertakings classified as large must apply international accounting standards. With this text, we release them from this responsibility. Dear Members, in the National Assembly we ratify international treaties every day, contracts with various international financial institutions, European regulations, directives and regulations, we quote international agencies on how the Bulgarian economy develops, how the state develops in principle. At the same time, with the texts of this law, we release state-owned enterprises classified as large to comply with international accounting standards. For this reason, we are against this proposal and will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u62	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u63	My fellow Members, I would like to defend this text and explain to you what this is about, including you, colleagues on the left. We do not exempt anyone from anything by changing this text, but we say that the Bulgarian Act on Accounting is respected. The Bulgarian Accounting Act is actually the main, special law that has arranged which enterprises in what way and which standards should apply. By this law it is clear that Bulgarian enterprises can apply national standards or international standards as an obligation to implement international standards: the companies that are listed on the exchange; the companies that take international credit; the banks; the financial undertakings; the insurance companies. There are clearly listed those undertakings which must apply international standards. I would like to say that most European countries also apply a regime of both national and international standards, in the way that this is also settled in the Bulgarian Accounting Act. On the other hand, I would like to say that national standards largely meet international standards. Moreover, by the end of the year there will be approved new national standards that will be fully adapted to the changes that have occurred in the meantime in international standards, but they are much clearer, much more accurate and much more adapted to the Bulgarian reality. As unpleasant as it may seem to you, international accounting standards are extremely common, give this particular enterprise extremely wide discretion in one way or another to assess the difference is mainly in the valuation of assets, and much greater is the opportunity to make manipulations in this assessment. It is no coincidence that the supervisory authorities of banks, insurance companies in the face of the C.F.R., pension companies, companies listed on the exchange, specifically check the way assets are valued, because there is the main difference between international accounting standards. So by forwarding these public enterprises with more than 50% state participation to keep their accounts under the Bulgarian Law, we are not releasing anyone, but, on the contrary, we are making equality between all types of enterprises that should be subject to the special Bulgarian Accounting Act, and that for me is the right position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 28, which becomes art. 25 on the Commission report. They voted 93 MPs: 72 against 19, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u65	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 29, which becomes art. 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 30, which becomes art. 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u66	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 29, which becomes art. 26, and the text of the importer for art. 30, which becomes art. 27. Vote 98 MPs: 94 against 1, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u67	Procedure? Negative vote please, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u68	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted negatively on the last three articles we accepted, and I want to tell you why. In them, there is no specific requirement to public undertakings that differs from the general laws in the country or we simply adopted three senseless texts which, by their nature, say that public undertakings comply with the Accounting Act, they are conducted according to national and international standards, and they also comply with the Audit Act. What have we said with this law? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u69	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Is there another negative vote? I won't. We are continuing with the texts of Mrs. Saveklieva!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u70	..the head of the European Union....and the European Union....and the European Union....and the European The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 31, which becomes Art. 28.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u71	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 7 and the text of the importer for art. Art. 31, which becomes Art. 28. Vote 94 MPs: 87, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u72	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 32, which becomes Art. 29: Art. 29. (1) Public undertakings shall draw up quarterly and annual financial statements, analyses and reports and make them available to the authority exercising the rights of the State and the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control, in accordance with the order, format, content and time limits laid down in the Rules for the Implementation of the Law. Public undertakings, which are treated as large undertakings, are subject to increased disclosure requirements. (2) The Agency for Public Enterprises and Control shall publish the information received under para. 1 information on its website. (3) The financial statements shall contain at least a balance sheet, a profit and loss account, an equity account, a cash flow account and their annexes drawn up in accordance with the Accounting Act and the applicable accounting standards, accompanied by an analysis of the activity. (4) The non-financial information shall include at least the elements of the non-financial declaration under art. 48 of the Accounting Act, as well as reports on risk assessment, human resources and labour relations, sustainability, environmental impact, transactions between related parties and a report on members of management and control bodies, including a statement of their remuneration, a report on the performance of public service obligations and public policy objectives.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u73	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 32, which becomes Art. 29. Vote 87 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u74	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 33, which becomes Art. 30: Art. 30. The Agency for Public Enterprises and Control shall be responsible for preparing an annual summary report on public public undertakings. The summary report shall review the results of the business activities of undertakings as well as an analysis of the activities of undertakings by sector and of all public undertakings, which are addressed as large. The summary report shall also assess compliance by public undertakings with applicable corporate governance and disclosure standards. The summary report also contains information on the implementation of state policy with regard to public undertakings.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u75	Are there any speeches? There's no wish to make a statement. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for art. 33, which becomes Art. 30. Vote 92 MPs: 85, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u76	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 34, which becomes art. 31: Art. 31. (1) The Agency for Public Enterprises and Control shall annually submit the summary report for the year concerned for approval by the Council of Ministers by 31 October of the following year. The Council of Ministers shall present to the National Assembly the summary report within one month of its approval. (2) The Agency for Public Enterprises and Control shall publish the summary report on its website and publish it in paper format.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for art. 34, which becomes art. 31. They voted 83 MPs: 79, none, abstention 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u78	"Additional provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u79	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision. Vote 89 MPs: 85, none, abstention 4. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... For the 1. It is a document for planning the activities of the public undertaking for a period of at least three years, which also contains key indicators for the implementation of the financial and non-financial objectives. 2. In the case where the State directly or indirectly owns more than 50 percent of the undertaking's subscribed capital, it shall control the majority of the votes relating to the shares/units issued by the undertaking or may appoint more than half of the members of the undertaking's management or supervisory authority. 3. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. 4. The objective of the public undertaking which results from the general strategic objective defined for the public undertaking and from regulatory and policy planning acts and documents is related to the performance of the functions assigned to the public undertaking. 5. Public services are educational, health, water supply, sewerage, heat supply, electricity supply, gas supply, telecommunications, postal or similar services provided to meet public needs. 6. The general strategic objectives are objectives which the State/Municipality wishes to achieve through participation in the public undertaking and which result from regulations and policy planning documents. 7. The authority exercising the rights of the State shall be: (a) an administrative body which, by law or by order of the Council of Ministers, exercises the rights of the State in the capital of a public undertaking under art. 2, points 1 and 3; (b) a public undertaking under art. 2, p. 2 when exercising ownership rights in another public undertaking. 8. "Market defects' are cases where the distribution of goods and services on the free market is ineffective and inefficient. 9. "Representatives of the State in the management and control bodies of public undertakings' are civil servants and employees working in the public administration, who have been elected or designated in the management and control bodies. 10. The standards for good corporate governance are the standards included in the Guidelines of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development for Corporate Governance of Public Enterprises. 11. In this respect, the Commission notes that the Commission considers that there is no need for State aid to be compatible with the internal market in the form of State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 12. The public policy objectives are those which favour the general public within the specific competence of public undertakings other than the achievement of maximum profits and value for shareholders, such as the provision of public services, postal, transport and other special obligations undertaken in the public interest. 13. The management and control bodies shall be members of the supervisory boards and board of directors of the joint stock companies, members of the boards of directors of the joint stock companies, managers and controllers of the limited liability companies and members of the management boards and executive directors of the state undertakings formed by law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u80	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 1. Vote 87 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u81	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u82	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision. They voted 86 MPs: 84, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u83	..................................................... (1) No state-owned enterprises under art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Act, if they are intended to carry out mainly business activities which can be carried out by a private operator for profit purposes. (2) The Council of Ministers shall assign to the Agency for Public Enterprises and control the preparation of an analysis of the created by special laws on the basis of art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law State-owned enterprises to clarify the nature of their activities.. mostly commercial or mainly public functions and policies. The analysis shall be submitted to the Council of Ministers within 12 months of the entry into force of the law. On the basis of the analysis, the Council of Ministers shall adopt a conversion programme within three years. (3) State enterprises established by special laws on the basis of art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law, which are mainly engaged in commercial activity, is converted into sole commercial companies under Part Two, Title Three, Chapter 16a, Section III of the Commercial Law. (4) State enterprises established by special laws on the basis of art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law, which perform mostly public functions and policies, are reorganised into administrative structures in compliance with the current regulations or are included in the consolidated fiscal programme under art. 13, para. 4 or art. 171 of the Public Finance Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u84	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, we are opposed to the texts of § 2. For us, they will lead to an accelerated liquidation of state-owned enterprises. First, what is the difference between the state enterprise and the commercial company? The trading company operates on the free market, makes a profit and exists. The State-owned enterprise is an organisation designed to work for the public benefit, to work and to spend money on the budget of the State or of the municipality and to perform services for the benefit of the public. In this regard, in the text of para. 1:? State-owned enterprises under art. 1 cannot be created. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Act, if they are intended to carry out primarily business activities which can be carried out by a private operator for the purpose of profit, first, what does business mean? Is doing road asphalting a business? Yeah, it's business. It can be run by a private company with money earned from a public contract, from the budget and make a profit. The state-owned company, which is what it is, which you last year, the managers, wired into the accounts a billion 350 million, could spend that money without profit, building roads and highways. So, first of all, what does business mean, where is specified and how is this defined? Secondly, for a three-year period, all these state-owned enterprises that exist so far and operate will be moved and reorganised in administrative structures to the various ministries and agencies, confirming that in a few years all these state-owned enterprises will be destroyed. That is why we are against the texts and will not support § 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u86	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. We got your guys. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. Here you are, Deputy Minister Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is a commercial company and is not a state enterprise. That wasn't the best example we used. With regard to state-owned enterprises, which envisions the Bill, a part of them that really have public functions, in the future, after the analysis provided for in the Bill will be reorganised and become executive or state agencies. Examples of such state-owned enterprises: for example, a newly created state-owned company is management and management of dams. If it turns out after the analysis, it'll just become an agency. Such state-owned enterprises, which I recall at the moment, are a state-owned company. Those engaged in business and able to support themselves will be transformed into companies that are all active on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u88	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister. Are there any other speeches, honourable Members? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 2. Vote 92 MPs: 79 against 11, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u89	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. (1) Within three months of the entry into force of the law, the Council of Ministers shall adopt the Rules of Procedure of the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control. (2) Within 6 months of the entry into force of the Law, the Council of Ministers shall adopt rules for its implementation. (3) Within 6 months of the entry into force of the Law, the Council of Ministers shall bring the regulations in accordance with it. (4) Within one year of the entry into force of the law, the compositions of public undertakings' management and control bodies shall be aligned with its requirements.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u90	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the text of the importer in the version of the Commission on the Commission Report on § 3. 90 MPs voted: 83, against 3, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u91	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ The Agency for Public Enterprises and Control provides guidance on the application of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u92	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 4 in the version of the Commission. The votes of 86 MPs were: 83, against 2, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u93	Under § 5, there is a proposal from Desislav Chukolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version § 5: .................................................................................. (1) The Agency for Privatization and Post-Privatization Control shall be renamed the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control. (2) The activities, budget, assets, liabilities, archive and other rights and obligations of the Privatisation Agency and post-privatization control shall be transferred to the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control. The pending cases at the date of the entry into force of the law shall be continued by the Agency for Public Enterprises and control until their completion in all instances. (3) The employment and service relationships of the heads and employees of the Privatisation Agency and post-privatization control shall be governed under the conditions of art. Article 123 of the Labour Code and Article 123 of the Labour Code. 87a of the Civil Service Act. (4) Outside the cases under para. 3 the service and employment relations of the employees of the administration under para. 1 whose functions are not transferred to the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control shall be governed by the Executive Director of the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control under the terms and conditions of art. 328, para. 1, t. 2 of the Labour Code, respectively under the terms and under the order of art. 106, para. 1, t. Art. 2 or art. 106, para. 1, t. 5 and 6 of the Civil Service Act. (5) The Agency for Public Enterprises and Control shall enter into the rights and obligations of the Privatisation Agency and post-privatization control of contracts concluded by it, including operational programmes financed by EU funds. (6) The Supervisory Board of the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control shall continue to exercise its powers as the Supervisory Board of the Agency for Public Enterprises and control from the date of the entry into force of the law. (7) The Executive Board of the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control shall continue to exercise its powers as the Executive Board of the Agency for Public Enterprises and control from the date of the entry into force of the law. (8) If a member of the Executive Board of the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control does not meet the requirements of art. 11, para. 3, its powers shall be suspended from the date of the entry into force of the law. The members of the Executive Board of the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control that meet the requirements of art. 11, para. 3, continue to exercise their powers as members of the Executive Board of the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u94	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 5, which was just presented by Mrs. Saveklieva. 90 MPs voted: 86, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u95	§ 6 is proposed by Desislav Chukolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Valentina Naydenova: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 6: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 2, Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, 1 of the proposed new para. 5, after the words............................................................................................ The following text shall be added to the comma 3a 3, para. 1 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 of art. 3, para. Point 3, point (b) shall not apply. 3. In point (a), point (a) is (a) point (b) is deleted. (b) point (d) shall be deleted. 4. Point 15 is out. 5. Points 16 and 17 become points 15 and 16. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Alexander Sabanov: In §6: 1. A t is created. 8a: Eight o'clock. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22c, para. 1 acquires the following version: (1) The Supervisory Board shall consist of 7 members who shall be elected and released by the National Assembly. Each parliamentary group, as well as a recognised representative organisation of employees at national level under art. 34 of the CT may propose up to three persons as members of the Supervisory Board who have completed higher education meeting the requirements of art. 11, para. 3 of the Public Enterprises Act. At least one of the members of the Supervisory Board should be a person proposed by a recognised representative organisation of employees at national level under art. 34 of KT. 2. Point 10 is out. 3. Point 11 is out. 4. A new t. is created. 11a, with which in art. 22d, para. 1 is created a new t. 8. It's 8 o'clock. approve the proposals for appointment and dismissal of the independent members of the Supervisory Boards and the Boards of Directors of the public undertakings, as well as keep a public register of the independent members. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 is created The sale of separate parts under para. 2, p. 3 and 4 may be performed through the electronic platform under art. 3a. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 4 is amended as follows: In cases of a newly formed state-owned company, a privatisation decision shall be adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. In the case of a newly formed company with municipal participation, a privatisation decision is adopted by the municipal council. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4, para. 2 the words "a commercial company with more than 50 per cent State participation in capital in other commercial companies' shall be replaced by "a business company whose capital is owned by other commercial companies with more than 50 per cent state participation in capital'. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 5, para 2, after the word "Searchship" is added, or activities related to its functions under the Public Enterprises Act. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 11 is 6. The title of Chapter Three is amended as follows: "Agency for Public Enterprises and Control." 7. Article 22a is amended as follows: Art. 22a. (1) This law lays down the functions of the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control, referred to as the.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (2) The Agency for Public Enterprises and Control shall be the administration of the Council of Ministers for the implementation of privatisation and post-privatization control in the cases provided for in this Law and for the coordination of state policy with regard to public undertakings under the Public Enterprises Act. The Agency for Public Enterprises and Control shall carry out activities under art. 42 of the Law on concessions. (3) The Agency for Public Enterprises and Control shall be a legal person of budgetary maintenance established in Sofia. (4) The management bodies of the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control shall be: 1. Supervisory Board; 2. Executive Council. 8. Article 22b is amended as follows: Art. 22b. (1) The Agency shall organise and implement the privatisation process, carry out post-privatization control under privatisation contracts concluded by the authorised state authorities in the cases provided for in this law, carrying out activities under art. 42 of the Law on concessions and the coordination of state policy with regard to public undertakings under the Law on Public Enterprises. (2) In carrying out its functions under para. 1 The Agency shall: 1. collect the necessary information about all subject to privatisation objects of its competence; 2. perform marketing; 3. assign to third parties activities under art. 5; 4. prepare and conclude privatisation transactions; 5. carry out actions to bring and collect the penalties provided for in privatisation contracts, interest rates, compensations, bank guarantees, claim of amounts of trust accounts and other actions in the event of default; may take action to break privatisation contracts where the grounds are present; 6. supervises and accepts all payments under privatisation contracts, including those concluded under the repealed Law on the transformation and privatisation of state and municipal enterprises; 7. carry out checks on the implementation of the obligations undertaken by privatisation contracts in the privatized sites and require information in the cases of alerts for failure to comply with the privatisation contracts; 8. grant permission, consent and approval on behalf of the seller in cases where this is provided for in privatisation contracts; 9. issue certificates for the payments made and upon request for the execution of other obligations undertaken by the privatisation contracts; 10. conclude agreements or agreements for the deferral of obligations undertaken by the privatisation contracts in the cases provided for in this Law; 11. may bring claims for the actual execution of outstanding cash or cash terms commitments undertaken by privatisation contracts for which no penalties or benefits are foreseen in the privatisation contracts in the event of their failure; 12. may bring claims relating to or arising from concluded privatisation contracts or from concluded agreements, or an agreement under point (c). Article 10 in conjunction with Article 10 22b1, para. 1. 4 or from trust accounts, bank guarantees or other transaction documents, as well as may be the defendant of such claims before a court or arbitration; 13. in the cases provided for in the Law on concessions, the Agency shall carry out independent control of the implementation of certain concession contracts and shall carry out actions for the award of a State concession and the execution and termination of the concession contract for that concession; 14. develop the policy for the participation of the State in public enterprises; 15. monitor the implementation of the State's participation policy in public undertakings and prepare its update; 16. monitor competition procedures for selection and appointment of members of management and control bodies; 17. monitor the activities of public undertakings and prepare a summary report for the previous year in the format and scope defined in the Public Enterprises Act; 18. assist industry ministers in defining the overall strategic objectives of enterprises and key indicators for the implementation of financial and non-financial objectives in business programmes of enterprises; 19. cooperate with other state administrations, non-governmental and international institutions on issues related to the management of public enterprises; 20. publish up-to-date information and reports on the activities of public undertakings, including financial and non-financial information on undertakings; 21. assess the implementation of approved business programmes of public undertakings and make proposals to improve their management; 22. when delegation by the Council of Ministers exercises the rights of the state in public undertakings; 23. prepare an assessment and analysis of the approved business programmes of public undertakings and their implementation, as well as recommendations regarding the risks and effects on public finances, including the potential effects and risks on the consolidated debt and deficit/excess indicators of the government sector; 24. upon request assists the municipalities with regard to the management of municipal public enterprises. (3) The Agency shall exercise its powers of post-privatization control and in the cases of privatization transactions concluded in accordance with art. 32, para. 1, t. 5 when the buyer other than the purchase price has assumed additional obligations. (4) Where no period is provided for the exercise of the power under art. 22b, para. 2, p. 8, The Agency shall exercise this power until the full and final fulfilment of all the obligations laid down in the contract. 9. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 22b1: Art. 22b1. (1) At the request of the purchasers under privatisation contracts of companies for which insolvency proceedings have not been opened or are not in liquidation proceedings and for which the Agency has claims for penalties and/or claims for a price awarded by an effective judicial decision or for which an executive sheet has been issued, the Agency may conclude with them an agreement or agreement to cancel the claim in the event of the existence or presentation of a security covering the amount of the claim and interest due for the period of the deferral. An agreement or agreement may also be concluded for penalties charged by and made to buyers for voluntary payment, together with interest due. (2) The period of deferral under para. 1 may be up to 5 years from the date of signature of the agreement or agreement, and at the time of signature of the agreement or agreement the buyer must have paid at least 5 per cent of the obligation. (3) At the conclusion of an agreement or agreement under para. 1 a repayment plan setting out the amount of the contributions within the time-limit and the maturity of the contributions shall be drawn up. In case of late payment by the buyer of three instalments, respectively of any of the last three instalments, the entire obligation shall be immediately due at the specified maturity in the repayment plan. (4) From the day of the conclusion of the agreement or agreement under para. 1 the enforcement cases initiated for the recovery of the claims under the agreement or agreement shall be suspended and the cases shall be resumed at the request of the Agency upon request of the buyer for payment of three instalments, respectively of any of the last three instalments, of their fixed maturity in the repayment plan. The period during which enforcement proceedings are suspended shall not be taken into account for the application of art. 433, para. 1, t. 8 of the Civil Procedure Code. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22 d.o.b. Four 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22d, para. 1 t. Seven is 12. Articles 23 and 24 are repealed. 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25 para. 1 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28, para. 10 is finally added as their sale can be made through the electronic platform under art. 3a, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (ii) 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31, para. 3 text.. in at least two central The report shall be replaced by the website of the Agency for public undertakings and control. 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32, para. 3 is created t. 3: "3." electronic auction. 17. Article 43 shall be repealed. 18. All over the words "Privatization Agency" and post-privatization control and privatization and post-privatization control the public undertakings and the control companies and the public authorities; enterprises and control
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva, relax. Are there any speeches, honourable Members? Dr. Naydenova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u97	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I believe that with the proposed new para. 5 in art. 1 A practical opportunity is created for the sale of medical establishments with more than 50% state participation in capital using the separate method. Therefore, I believe that it should be explicitly recorded in the Law, with the exception of those listed in Annex 1 under art. 3, para. 1 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act. In this sense are the proposals made below me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u98	Thank you, dear Dr. Naydenova. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. We're going to vote. Firstly, I vote on the proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 81 MPs: 18, against 40, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Alexander Sabanov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 11 against 31, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 6. Vote 85 MPs: 66 against 11, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u99	According to § 7 there is a proposal made by the MP Desislav Chukolov and a group of MPs. Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: .................................................... In § 6 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Supplement to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control (prom., SG No. (b) the words "In a one-year period since the promulgation of this law' shall be replaced by "Until 3 November 2019'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 7 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u100	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of MP Desislav Chukolov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 9 against 46 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the Commission proposal to reject the text of the importer for § 7. They voted 86 MPs: 75, against 3, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u101	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In the Law on the Civil Service (prom., SG No. Art....) 7, para. 3 is added at the end except in the cases provided for in the Law the public undertakings and public undertakings and public undertakings;
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u102	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 8, which becomes § 7. Vote 88 MPs: 74 against 3, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u103	Under § 9 there is a proposal made by the MP Alexander Sabanov: In the Labour Code (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 of the CT is added a new content of para. 3 and a new para is created. 4 as follows: (a) s (3) Representatives of the employees as members of each of the management and control bodies in public undertakings with a list of more than 50 persons shall be designated by the national managements of the representative organisations of the employees, subject to the requirements of art. 22, para. 1 of the IPP, as follows: On a proposal from the representative trade union organisations of the undertaking after consultation with the employees of the undertaking concerned. On a proposal from the representatives of branch/sector trade unions after consultation with the employees in the undertaking concerned, which does not have representative trade unions. (b) The number of members in each of the authorities of the management and control of public undertakings under para. 3 with a list of employees up to 250 people is 1 member, and for enterprises with more than 250 people are 2 members. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In the Labour Code (prom., SG No. Art....) 107a, para. 2 shall be added at the end, except in the cases provided for in the Public Enterprises Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u104	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Alexander Sabanov, not supported by the members of the Commission. They voted 84 MPs: 15 against 28, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 9, which becomes § 8. Vote 82 MPs: 71, against 2, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u105	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... In the Law on Transactions in Compensation Instruments (prom., SG No. ...) all over the words the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control (Privatization and Post-Privatization Control) are replaced by the Privatization and Control (Privatization and Post-Privatization Control). The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In the Non-performing Credit Settlement Act, agreed by 31 December 1990. (prom., D.V., No. ...) in art. 12a, para. 2 the words "privatization and post-privatization control' shall be replaced by "privatization and control'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In the Law on Countering Corruption and for the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property (promise, SG No. ...) in art. 6, para. 1, t. 20 words "Privatization and post-privatization control' shall be replaced by "Privatization and post-privatization control'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In the Law on State Property (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44, para. 1 the words "Privatising and Privatising" and post-privatization control public undertakings and control. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 45a para. Two and three are 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57 para. 1 is 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 78, para. 2 words "Privatising and Privatising and post-privatization control public undertakings and control. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In the Law for access and disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 3, para. 1, t. 13 the words "privatization and post-privatization control' shall be replaced by "privatization and control'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In the Law on concessions (prom., SG No. ...) all over the words the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control (AKS) and the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency (APSK) are replaced by the Privatization and Abreviation (APSK) shall be replaced by the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency (APSK).
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u106	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the Commission's amendments for § 10, which becomes § 9, for § 11, which becomes § 10, § 12, which becomes § 11, § 13, which becomes § 12, and § 15, which becomes § 14. Vote 92 MPs: 84, none, abstention 8. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u107	According to § 16 there is a proposal made by the MP Desislav Chukolov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 16" is canceled. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 16 and proposes to reject it. According to § 7, there is a proposal from the MP Desislav Chukolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 17 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u108	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote to reject paragraphs 16 and 17. They voted 92 MPs, 78, against 2 and abstention 12. The proposals have been accepted. With this, honourable Members, we have concluded the second vote on the Public Enterprises Bill. [[Private applause and cheering: "Bravo! "]] We're about to take a 30-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u109	Honourable Members, we are continuing our work. Before we move to the eighth point of the Work Programme, I would suggest that we vote on a text under Paragraph 13 of the Public Enterprises Bill, which is presented to your attention, but is omitted in the vote.. This is the version that the Commission proposes for § 14, which is going to be § 13. I will again announce this is the version of § 14, which becomes § 13 of the Public Enterprises Bill, which is presented to your attention, but in the vote it is missed. 70 MPs voted: 62, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. We'll continue with: For the purposes of this chapter, the expression "all other materials' means materials which are wholly obtained by the same process or by the same process as those of the same heading as those of the same heading as those of the same heading as that of the same heading as that of the same heading as that of the same heading as that of the same You have the floor to present the First Voting Report to the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Mrs. Belova, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u110	Dear Mr. President, I ask for a procedure for admission in the hall of Mr. Lachezar Borisov s Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Economy, Mrs. Simoneta Boneva, Head of the Department of Trade Mechanisms and Mrs. Nina Hristova State Expert in the Department of Trade Mechanisms at the Ministry of Economy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u111	I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission made in this House. Vote 81 MPs: 77, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite the admitted persons to the Chamber. Please continue with the presentation of the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u112	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act No 902-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 August 2019. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 19 September 2019 discussing the quoted bill. In the meeting of the committee took part from: Ministry of Economy Nina Hristova State Expert, and Svetoslava Malcheva Chief Expert at the Directorate, External Affairs Policy.; Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. There were also representatives of the National Association of Tobacco Producers. " 2010; Bulgarian Association of Tobacco Industry; Bulgarian Association of Tobacco Traders and the Association of Bulgarian Tobacco Industry. The bill was presented by Nina Hristova, who stressed that the changes aimed at bringing national legislation into line with European Union law and reducing the administrative burden for economic operators in the sector. In this regard, the bill provides that the data and information on tobacco and related products are to be presented only by manufacturers and importers of the products concerned and the need to provide such information to persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union. All required data and information will already be provided through the European Union Common Electronic Portal. In this regard, the powers of the Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco products, which is currently responsible for their preservation and for providing access to them to the European Commission and other Member States of the European Union, shall be refined. The information to maintain the public registers of new tobacco products, smoking products other than tobacco and electronic cigarettes and refill containers is listed. For the circumstances and particulars of applicants entered in the registers, no evidence will be required and the relevant authorities should accept their verification by written reference in the document initiating the proceedings. An explicit prohibition on the placing on the market of tobacco products and smoking products other than tobacco products for which the required data are not provided, as well as new tobacco products and electronic cigarettes and refill containers for which no notification has been submitted shall be introduced. It is foreseen from 1 April 2020 that authorisations for the purchase of raw tobacco from an unlimited period of time should take place for a period of four years. Persons authorised to carry out industrial tobacco processing, as well as research organisations and higher education institutions operating in the field of tobacco and tobacco products shall have the right to have laboratory equipment for cutting tobacco. It is explicitly required that the images of consumer packaging and any external packaging of tobacco products aimed at consumers meet the requirements of the law. Any consumer packaging of tobacco products will indicate the number of pieces of the product or the weight of tobacco concerned, as well as the name of the manufacturer or importer. The administrative criminal provisions shall increase the penalties for persons purchasing raw tobacco in breach of the requirement to hold a valid authorisation and to have concluded a purchase contract with a tobacco producer or where they have not provided the relevant tobacco commission with the required information. The penalty is intended to be no less than 30 percent of the value of tobacco and to take the tobacco itself for the benefit of the State. Such a requirement shall also be introduced in respect of non-registered persons storing raw tobacco. The tobacco seized for the benefit of the State will be destroyed by burning by a commission designated by order of the Director of the relevant Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry supports the Bill. In the subsequent discussion, the representatives of the branch organizations unanimously supported the Draft Law by proposing to refine the text of § 35 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act. With regard to the proposal, permissions to buy raw tobacco from an unlimited period of time have offered a transitional provision to provide that for persons with already issued such authorisations this period will start from the entry into force of the Act, i.e. from 1 April 2020. They expressed the concern that the obligation on tobacco packaging to indicate the name of the manufacturer or importer could give rise to an ambiguous interpretation. From the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, the Law noted that too often changes are made and that in the present case the proposed amendments in the majority are purely editorial. From the parliamentary group of the European Parliament's Committee on Rights and Freedoms, they agreed with this finding, pointed out that the proposed changes are more than the competence of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and recommended that between the first and second votes of the Bill the proposals of the branch organizations be taken into account. Following the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 17 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and 2 votes, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products, No 902-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 August 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u113	Thank you, dear Mrs. Belova. The Economic Policy and Tourism Committee has the floor for the presentation of the report, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act No 902-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 August 2019. At its regular meeting on 25 September 2019, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act. The bill aims to reduce the administrative burden on economic operators in the tobacco manufacturing and trade sector and related products, as well as to bring national legislation into line with European Union law governing the production, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products. Information and information on tobacco and related products are intended to be provided only by manufacturers and importers of the products concerned and by means of a common electronic portal for the submission of data, i.e. via the European Union General Portal (EU-CEG). The provision of art. 8, § 8 of Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the production, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products and repealing Directive 2001/37/EC. The images of consumer packaging and any external packaging of tobacco products aimed at consumers in the European Union should comply with the provisions of Chapter II. Although the provisions of Chapter II are introduced by art. 35f and the following of the Law, the European Commission considers that the provision of art. 8, § 8 should be explicitly introduced. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products, No 902 01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 August 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u115	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveclieva. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. You have the floor to present the report, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act No 902-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 August 2019. At its regular meeting on 25 September 2019, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act No 902 01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 August 2019. The bill was presented by Mrs. Simoneta Boneva, Head of Department of Trade Mechanisms at the Ministry of Economy. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Nina Hristova, State Expert in the same department, and Mr. Petar Kirovski, Head of Department of Planting and Organic Production at the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. The importers point out that the proposed Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act aims to reduce the administrative burden on economic operators in the manufacturing and trade of tobacco and related products, as well as to bring national legislation into line with European Union law governing the production, supply and sale of tobacco products. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposed unanimously with 6 votes for the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products, No 902-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 August 2019. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u117	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. You've had your applause. I'm opening the debate, colleagues. You have the floor to speak. Mrs. Bachvarova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor for comment on the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act for the reason that I was personally deeply outraged by the proposed next draft in the field of tobacco trade. Since 2016, when the Directive is in operation, it has been since 2014. This is the thirteenth amendment of the Law on the Implementation of the Directive from 2014. Each time we have some reason to correct, we change adopted texts, which have accordingly been in line with European legislation, why they have led to an increase in administrative burden or not applying with the necessary attention to the texts of the Directive that are binding, and we have adopted. So 13 times we have amended the Law and this is the fourteenth time in which a change in Directive 2014 is again leading. I do not agree with the reasons of the importers that they first begin by reducing the administrative burden of anything like this. The administrative burden shall not be reduced because at least the two major changes to be made are linked to an increase in the administrative burden. We are talking, firstly, about the electronic portal, which requires information about new products and, in general, what is related to the realization and trade of tobacco products, to be provided in addition to paper, also to be presented in electronic form, which additionally requires one effort from those involved or working in these markets. Secondly, what is said in the reasons of importers that the economic burden is being reduced because persons are being reduced by economic operators who should provide information on tobacco products. So far, the circle of persons who have to provide this information under the current law is the producers, importers and also the persons who enter the territory of each Member State of the European Union, these articles are talking about countries of the European Union. It is proposed that persons who enter information into the territory of a Member State from another Member State of the European Union be removed. Yes, but this applies only to cigarettes and hand-crinkled tobacco and electronic cigarettes. The general information to be provided by the new article which is required to be notified to the Ministry of Economy in practice by those persons related to importers from the European Union remains. This is a contradiction of some kind, or all importers drop out of the EU member states, or selective for one type of cigarettes and cigarette products to require them to fall out of the common regime and for others to continue. This is a misunderstanding, in my opinion, which should also be sought by the European Commission, because if, after two or three months, we change the Law in this direction again, it seems to me that it will become too incomprehensible what is happening with the bills of the Council of Ministers. In the Commission, we discussed another issue related to labelling. There's a whole chapter on etiquette. It is described in the application.. what pictures, what to write, where to put these pictures, and everything else. The new proposal in the Bill is that packaging and labelling must comply with the requirements of the Law. Well, why are we writing this law if these packages are not going to be introduced in accordance with the requirements of the Law? This thing is not the will of anyone to do what they want, exactly all the parameters are defined, and it is written very punctually. It seems to me that this will be another attempt to implement the directive and with the way the bill has been presented, we will again have problems. And in the Commission we were impressed that whole texts that exist in the current law are being copied, but some para is being added. 5 or 6 which amends, for example, the requirement for an electronic portal to have information provided. Who needs to be rewritten now the current law, provided that there is a change of a comma or a letter? Surely we do not understand what this is about, but when the meaning is the same, when there is no change, we propose a bill which, firstly, becomes very difficult to understand what exactly, what are these changes that are being made, and, on the other hand, creates precedents in the legislation that we are repeating them in a change in the current law. Personally, by getting acquainted with the Bill and asking questions during the discussion in the Commission, I was not satisfied with what was presented to us by protecting the reasons that were presented to the Commission. I believe that if we have to implement the directive and we have remarks, there is some urgency to do so, but if there is no urgency, it is good to look at this bill and between first and second reading to make such adjustments which, accordingly, create prerequisites for this directive in the end, and we do not need to constantly return to its basic parameters and try to Bulgarianize what we have done so far. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u119	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Statements? I don't see any other speeches. I'm putting an end to the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act, No 902-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers. They voted 116 MPs: 90, none, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR THE CONSERVATION OF THE PUBLIC SOCIETY IN THE DISCLOSURE OF SPORTS. People's representatives Slavcho Atanasov, Boriana Georgieva, Yordan Yordanov and Manoil Manev are importing. The bill was adopted in the first vote on 18 September 2019. Report of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports "You have the floor, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u120	Report for the second vote of the Draft Law amending the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the conduct of sporting events. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of the law: The Law on the Protection of Public Order in the conduct of sports events is amended.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u121	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the Law proposed by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u122	There is a proposal made by the National Representative Ivan Chenchev according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... Article 11 shall make the following 1. Alinea 3 is canceled. 2. In para. the fifth sentence is first deleted; 3. Alinei 6, 7 and 8 are canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u123	Statements? Mr. Chenchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I made this proposal because we complied with the requirement and opinion of the Ministry of Interior. You know, in the first vote, we canceled the ticket customization. Now in para. 5, i.e. t. 5, the ticket customization is really out of the question, but we need to keep the sentence, the documents under para. 2, p. 1 can also be sold electronically. " It is important to do so, and I think there is nothing worrying about it. It is supported by the Commission and we must also know that all other proposals are related to the point. The Ministry of Interior had some concerns about it not being there as a text for the sale of tickets electronically, but I think we are solving the issue with this. Another question is actually that the Ministry of Interior could have done it through a regulation. So I suggest we accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u125	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 1. Vote 101 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u126	The Commission shall support the text of the importer under § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u127	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer under § 2. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We continue with point 10th of the Work Programme: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO COMPLETION THE COMMISSION'S CONVERSATION WITH NON-ORGANIZATIONS AND CIVIL COMPLAINTS. Importer is the national representative Daniela Daritkova. I'll introduce you to: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition and the Commission's management of interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Nelly Ruskova Petrova as Vice-President of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and Citizens' Complaints. 2. He elected Vladimir Slavchev Valev as a member of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Please, voting mode. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I will now introduce you to the Parliamentary Control Communication for September 27, 2019, Friday: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova will answer a question from the MP Desislav Chukolov and a question from the MP Pavel Shopov. 2. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer two questions from the MPs Stanislav Vladimirov; and Nadia Klisurska-Zekova. 3. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer two questions from the MPs Svetlana Angelova; and Claudia Gancheva. 4. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva will answer three questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Nikolay Penev two questions; and Dimitar Danchev. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to three questions with written answer from the MPs Lalo Kirilov; Philip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev; and Lalo Kirilov and Radoslav Stoychev; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov to three questions with written answer from the MPs Yordan Yordanov; Krasimir Bogdanov; and Nadia Klisurska-Zhekova; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov at one request from the National Representative Anton Kutev; - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to three questions from the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev; Georgi Mihailov; and Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Mihailov, Ilian Timchev and Anelia Klisarova; and to a question written by the MPs Tsvetan Topchiev and Philip Popov; - the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; and to four questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov three questions; and Georgi Gokov. Due to the absence of the National Representative Teodora Georgieva for respectable reasons, her question is postponed to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov, the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov, the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov, the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev and the Minister of Economy Emil Karanikov will not participate. Colleagues, we continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON THE LOANS OF PHYSICAL PERSONS. We are continuing our discussions, fellow Members. If there are no speeches, I will close the debate. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Dragomir Stoinev. They voted 108 MPs: 29, against 53, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. [[Heckling]] Do you want a re-vote? Argumentate yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u128	Mr. Chairman, it is obvious why we need a re-vote, you almost closed the session before we went to this vote. I'm sorry, this is the first time this has happened for my relatively long parliamentary life. I think I'm a third term. This is the first time we've had to close the meeting and then vote again. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Obviously, we need to re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u129	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Reverse procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u130	Mr. Chairman hasn't closed the meeting at all! The bell wasn't hit, he had missed the point of yesterday. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So, I don't know if this could be a reason to re-vote, but I don't think that co-workers from 21 can become 121.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u131	Thank you. Re-vote. They voted 118 MPs: 38, against 59, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u132	The Commission shall support the importer's text for a single paragraph. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u133	Guys, could you keep it down? Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission for a single paragraph. They voted 115 MPs: 111, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u134	Proposal of the National Representative Dragomir Velkov Stoynev and a group of MPs - paragraph only becomes paragraph 2. The Commission does not support the proposal. Aren't you withdrawing it because it's pointless now? [[Reply of MP Dragomir Stoinev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u135	Mr. Stoinev withdraws it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u136	Are you withdrawing him, Mr. Stoinev? [[Reply of MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] Let's vote on it, okay. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Dragomir Stoinev. They voted 116 MPs: 36, against 69, abstentioned 11. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u137	Proposal by the National Representative Dragomir Velkov Stoynev and a group of MPs to create new paragraphs from § 3 to § 6: They're being created, § 3* 6: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: "3." the tax relief for children under art. 22c, para. OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1. § 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 3: A person benefiting from tax relief for children under art. 22c, para. 1 owes an advance tax on business income under art. 29, after the taxable income of the person from all sources of income acquired from the beginning of the tax year and subject to tax on the total annual tax base, reduced by the deducted or paid at the expense of the person compulsory social contributions exceeding 6000 BGN. for each minor child................................................................................................... 2. Previously on AMC's... 3 " 9" became respectively. 4... 10. § 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 3: A person benefiting from tax relief for children under art. 22c, para. 1 owes an advance tax on rent income or other compensation for the use of rights or property after the taxable income of the person from all sources of income acquired from the beginning of the tax year and subject to tax on the total annual tax base, reduced by the withheld or paid on behalf of the person compulsory social security contributions, exceeding 6000 BGN. for each minor child................................................................................................... 2. Previously on AMC's... 3 " 6" became respectively. 7. § 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 4. Where the recipient of the income referred to in Article 4 (1) (c) of this Regulation is a beneficiary of the income referred to in Article 4 (1) (a), (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 35 is a person using the tax relief for children under art. 22c, para. 1, tax under para. 1 is due after the taxable income of the person from all sources of income acquired from the beginning of the tax year and subject to tax on the total annual tax base, reduced by the deducted or paid on behalf of the person compulsory social contributions, exceeds 6000 BGN. for every minor child. In such cases, the person acquiring the income shall certify the circumstances and conditions under art. 22c, para. 1 - 7 with a statement on a template that is presented once to the payer of the income when he is obliged to hold and import the tax........................................................................................................................................................................ 2. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-26.u138	Thank you. Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the proposal not supported by the Commission by the Parliamentary Representative Dragomir Stoinev. Vote 117 MPs: 40 against 50, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. The next regular plenary session shall be on 27 September 2019 at 9.00 in accordance with the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
