ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u1	There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, we continue with the first item for today: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair of buildings, buildings and parts of buildings. Importer of the Council of Ministers, on 18 February 2019 Before we go to this point, let me read you a message: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces by its order has authorised the passage through the territorial sea, the non-military residence in the inland waters of the Republic of Bulgaria and the visit of the port of Varna between 5 and 9 March 2019 including a submarine and a frigate from the composition of the Republic of Turkey's Navy. The visit of the group vessels is in connection with the implementation of their preparation plan. The notification was received on 28 February 2019 with entry No 903-09-9 and was submitted to the Defence Committee. Who will introduce us to the Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government? Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the multi-level governance review agreement between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, signed on 11 December 2018, No 902-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 21 February 2019, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed the Draft for ratification of the Agreement for the Review of Multi-level Governance between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (DCI), signed on 11 December 2018, No 902-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 February 2019. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Ms. Denitsa Nikolova, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The objective of this Project is to provide a basis for cooperation with the OECD on regional policy and, in particular, in implementing the new approach to regional development policy and decentralisation of regional development management bodies. The agreement envisions the OECD to implement a Project review of multi-level governance on how multi-level governance and decentralisation will be successful for the regional development in Bulgaria and 15 months in the period from the end of 2018 to the first quarter of 2020. The scope of this project will focus on helping the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works structure relations between different levels of governance and strengthen the capacity of sub-national structures at regional level in order to develop sub-national public investment and strategies and implement effective regional development policies. The work will be carried out under the responsibility of the OECD Regional Policy Development Committee, which is a leading international structure in the field of multi-level governance and regional and urban development policy, as well as for rural areas. The results of the implementation of the Agreement will also contribute to the implementation of the National Strategy for Regional Development of Bulgaria for the period 2012 - 2022, as well as to the preparation of the new national document for strategic and territorial planning for the period 2021 - 2030. During the discussion the MPs united around the idea of the necessity and usefulness of the proposed draft agreement. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 14 votes for the Council of Bulgaria, with no votes, proposed to the National Assembly a Draft for the ratification of the Agreement on the Review of Multi-level Governance between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, signed on 11 December 2018, No 902-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 February 2019, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. The next report belongs to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u4	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement to review the multi-level governance between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, No 902-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 February 2019. At its meeting held on 27 February 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft for the ratification of the Agreement for the Review of Multi-level Governance between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, No 902-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 February 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works: Ms. Denitsa Nikolova Ms. Nikolova presented the Draft Law, stating that the Agreement with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development was signed by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works on 11 December 2018 under the conditions of subsequent ratification. She pointed out that it provides for the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to carry out a review of the multi-level governance "how multi-level governance and decentralisation to be successful for regional development in Bulgaria." Ms. Nikolova added that the duration of the project is 15 months and aims to support the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works in implementing the reform of regional development and decentralisation, with the focus on strengthening local capacity and structuring regional growth policies. The agreement will ensure the possibility of developing regional fiscal rules and effective regional development policies. The implementation of the project is planned to take place under the direction of the Regional Policy Development Committee of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The ratification of the Agreement and the implementation of the Project will speed up the reform of regional development and decentralisation in implementation of the National Strategy for Regional Development of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2012 - 2022, while facilitating the preparation of the new national document for strategic and territorial planning for the period 2021 - 2030. In conclusion Ms. Nikolova noted that the financing of the project was ensured and will be implemented through the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" 2014. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 14 votes for the Council, without the votes of the Bulgarian Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, No 902-02-6, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 18 February 2019..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. The report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism follows. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! To your attention, I present: ♪ I can't believe under a bill for ratification of the multi-level governance review Agreement between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, No 902-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 February 2019. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 27 February 2019 examined and discussed the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement for the Review of Multi-level Governance between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works (MRF) of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (DCI). The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Regional Development: Denitsa Nikolova Deputy Minister, and Tsvetelina Atanasova Head of Department. The bill was presented by Denitsa Nikolova. According to the importer, the aim of the proposed bill is to conduct a thorough analysis of the current legislation, assessment of the composition and work, management and powers of regional development management bodies and sources of funding. Within the framework of the Agreement between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Center for Entrepreneurship of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a study will be carried out. The project will include meetings in Bulgaria as well as data collection. The Agreement shall be in force until 30 April 2020. In relation to the financial security of the operation of the Agreement, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works will make a voluntary contribution of 330 thousand euros to cover all expenditure under the Project. This contribution will not be subject to financial reporting. As a result of the Agreement, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development will provide the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works with a copy of the published final report. The organization for economic cooperation and development cannot use the amount to recruit civil servants from the Bulgarian institutions. The results of the project are owned only by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has no right to give access to downloading publications uploaded to the Ministry's website. The place of arbitration is Paris. After a vote with results: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: it proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for ratification of the Agreement on the Review of Multi-level Governance between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, No 902-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 February 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveklieva. Colleagues, you have a say in this. I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote the bill for ratification of the Agreement for review of the multi-level governance between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. 120 MPs voted: 120, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! By virtue of the vote taken and in view of the fact that none of the MPs made a statement saying that they would want any changes between first and second readings, I propose that we vote on the bill at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. I'm putting to the vote the procedure Mr. Veselinov just did. Vote 119 MPs: 118, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u10	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement for the Review of Multi-level Governance between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development A single member. He ratified the Agreement for a review of the multi-level governance between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, signed on 11 December 2018. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Please, voting mode. They voted 122 MPs: for 122, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: HEARING OF THE MINISTER OF HEALTH OF THE BASIC FOUNDATION. 113 OF THE RULES ON THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCTS IN BULGARIA WITH REGARD TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) 2016/161 FOR THE DELEGATION OF DIRECTIVE 2001/83/EC OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL WITH REGARD TO THE INSTRUCTION OF SUBSTITUTION RULES FOR THE INDICATORS ON THE LABELLING OF MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE. Dr. Daritkova, please give us an introduction to the subject of the hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u12	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In order to counter the proliferation of counterfeit medicinal products in June 2011, a Directive amending Directive 2001/83/EC was adopted by validating a Community Code on medicinal products for human use as regards the prevention of the entry into the legal supply chain of falsified medicinal products. On 2 October 2015, the European Commission adopted Delegated Regulation (EU)/2016/161 supplementing Directive 2001/83/EC by laying down detailed rules for the safety performance on the packaging of medicinal products for human use, setting out the specifications for the individual identification mark to be placed on the packaging of medicinal products and the parameters of verification systems. Member States of the European Union, pharmaceutical companies supplying medicinal products, distributors and pharmacies must bring their practices into line with the requirements of the Regulation by 9 February 2019. The amendments and additions adopted in 2012 to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine transposed the provisions of the amending directive, as in art. 168, para. The manufacturer is required to place on the packaging an individual mark and a means of preventing tampering and the pharmacy is required to verify the authenticity of the medicinal product and identify the individual packaging. A Memorandum of Cooperation is signed in Bulgaria, detailing the principles for building the system in Bulgaria. It is signed by the Association of Research Pharmaceuticals in Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union and is officially declared ready to join by the Bulgarian Association of Wholesalers with Drugs, the Bulgarian Association for the Development of parallel drug trade and also the Bulgarian Genetic Pharmaceutical Association. On the basis of the Memorandum, within nine months, hard work is being done to create a non-profit legal entity. On 20 April 2016, a decision of the Sofia City Court for the registration of the Bulgarian organisation for the verification of medicines as a non-profit association to support the implementation in Bulgaria of Directive 201162/EU to prevent the entry of falsified medicines and to ensure that patients are supplied with authentic medicinal products is supplied. The subject of activity of the Association is with the assistance of the European Organization for Verification of Medicines to implement, exploit and maintain in the Republic of Bulgaria an effective system for verification of medicinal products, fully compatible and integrated with the European verification system. According to the requirements of the Directive and the Delegated Regulation, the system had to start operating from 9 February 2019 to prevent falsified medicines entering the legal supply chain and providing additional guarantees for the quality of their medicines to Bulgarian patients. In cooperation with the Drug Executive Agency and the Ministry of Health, the regulatory framework should be adopted in order to settle the powers of administration of the system by the Bulgarian Organization for Verification of Medicinal Products and the order of reaction of the Drug Executive Agency at an exceptional event, i.e. when detecting a falsified medicine in a pharmacy. The Bulgarian system for verification of medicines has been implemented and functioning since April 2018. It should be borne in mind that the regulations of the European Union have a direct application in national legislation and their explicit transposition into the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine is not necessary, except where there is a specificity in the regulations due to the definition of policies at national level. Dear Minister, regarding the expiry of the transitional period for the introduction of the system for verification of medicinal products please inform us of the ongoing implementation and progress in meeting the requirements of Delegated Regulation EU/2016/161 in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u13	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. The following is the presentation of information by the Minister, who will be heard under art. 113 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Mr. Ananiev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House, I would like to congratulate you on March 1st "Grandma Marta, to wish you a lot of health and spring mood in your hard work and, of course, in your personal life! [[Applause from GERB.]] The Delegated Regulation EU/2016/161 has entered into force since 9 February this year and is applicable directly in all Member States of the European Union. It requires the availability of functioning national verification systems as part of the Single European System, as well as the readiness of the participants in the drug chain to connect to the System, verify and disable medicinal products with safety indicators. The process of realization of the verification system in our country is carried out by the Association of Research Pharmaceuticals in Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Genetic Pharmaceutical Organization, the Bulgarian Association for the Development of parallel drug trade, the Bulgarian Association of Drug Wholesalers and the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union. Since its establishment, nearly three years ago, the Bulgarian Drug Verification Organisation has participated in a number of presentations in a number of seminars and trainings with representatives of all interested parties in the sector of medicinal products holders of marketing authorisations, representatives of wholesalers with medicinal products, parallel importers of medicinal products, Master Pharmacists working in pharmacies. On 18 April 2018, the Bulgarian system for verification of medicines is related to the manufacturing environment of the European hub for verification. After that date, a letter was sent to all registered retailers and retailers with medicinal products on the possibilities to connect to the system and detailed instructions for the implementation of this connection. Such information is also available on the organization's website. Specially for those working in pharmacies Master Pharmacists, the topic of verification of medicines was included in the form of lecture material and interactive seminars in the Scientific Program of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Days in 2017 and 2018 as a form of continued training in accordance with the Health Act. Special modules for remote training of master-pharmacists were developed, where the main theme for the introduction of the system for verification of medicinal products is laid down. The preparation of pharmacists and pharmacies for the verification process was also the main topic of the annual information meetings of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union in 2017 and 2018. About 3,600 pharmacies operate in the country. Of these, 2,400 have a contract with the National Health Insurance Fund, i.e. they work with computers and specialized software. These retailers only need to buy a reader whose value is between 180 and 200 BGN. for one job, and one time pay the amount of 50 BGN. to connect to the system. They do not require any other additional resource. However, in order for the other 1200 pharmacies to work, at least to monitor their stocks, they must also have a hardware system, a computer and be connected to the Internet, i.e. they must buy only the reader. In single cases where a pharmacy operates without the internet and computer, the price to be paid for the introduction of the verification system is between 1500 and 2000 BGN. as a one-time cost. According to data from the Bulgarian Organization for Verification of Drugs at present, over 2100 pharmacies are related to the National System for Verification of Drugs and it works stablely. There are uploaded data of over 20 million serialized packages of medicines that are supplied by prescription. During the transitional period after 9 February, new users will continue to be included in the pharmacies, and there will be both serialized and non-serialised medicinal products in circulation, so it is possible for some users to have technical difficulties. The Ministry of Health categorically states that no sanctions and fines will be imposed on pharmacies in connection with the introduction of verification for at least a period of 6 months. During this period, the system will be tested and all cases and problems related to its implementation will be analysed. In addition, on the website of the Ministry of Health and the Executive Medicines Agency are published, available to all, guidelines for implementation of the System, as well as instructions and order how to react in case of problems and issues. The aim is not to give up medicines to any patient and not to make it difficult to serve any patient in the pharmacy. In this regard, in order not to make it difficult for patients to operate pharmacies and access to medicinal products, technical errors will not be a reason to suspend the release of prescribed medicinal products. The individual contracts of the pharmacies with the regional health insurance banks record the requirement that the master pharmacists inform the Cashier of the intention not to work on a day outside the announced schedule. The health care fund does not require that the notifications describe the reasons why the pharmacy will not work. Ladies and gentlemen, a socially responsible business such as medicine supply cannot remain in the dark, in the grey sector, all the more so that the European Agency for Verification is starting a public discussion of the electronic leaflet, that is, the paper will gradually become obsolete. Thank you. V.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u15	Thank you, dear Minister. We'll start by asking the questions. From the parliamentary group of GERB "Please come in, Mr. Borisov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u16	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, despite the term of more than one year, and the explanatory campaign, part of the pharmacies said after 9 February that they are not ready to join the verification system. In this regard, a protest was also held on 20 February 2019. My question relates to the conflicting information that came out in the media and social networks: what was the number of pharmacies that actively participated in the protest? How many of these pharmacies have a contract with the Health Insurance Fund and how many of them have notified in the proper order of regional health insurance and regional health inspections? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u17	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. Here you are, Minister Ananiev, for the answer to the question asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The issue is extremely important and very correct. The requirement to be fulfilled by the relevant pharmacies, which will cease for one reason or another, in this case the protest is mandatory as a notification. The information we have is that 38 pharmacies that concluded a contract with the National Health Insurance Fund have previously informed the regional health insurance banks that they will not work on 20 February 2019. I can tell them even by districts: in Sofia district there are 4 pharmacies, Blagoevgrad 3 pharmacies, Varna 1 pharmacy, Gabrovo 2 pharmacies, Kyustendil 8 pharmacies, Kardzhali 1 pharmacy, Lovech 1 pharmacy, Montana 3 pharmacies, Pazardzhik 9 pharmacies, Pernik 2 pharmacies, and Shumen 2 pharmacies. The necessary organization was created and people who needed to purchase the relevant medicines, which were paid in full or in part by the National Health Insurance Fund, had no problems and received their medicines in the rest of the pharmacies network. What protesters have said that pharmacies that have ceased their work are over 700 is unverified information. We invited them to a conversation at the Ministry of Health, asked them to give us pharmacies that didn't work on February 20th, but they refused categorically. By the way, not only the Ministry of Health, several national media requested the same information and they did not provide it to them. So in no case can we say that over 700 pharmacies have not worked on this day, all the more so that in the Ministry of Health there is not a single signal that our population, Bulgarian patients have had difficulties in providing the necessary medicines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u19	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here comes a question from a parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs." There won't be any. From the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Committee of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u20	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The issue of connecting pharmacies to the verification system is important in terms of how Bulgarian patients can receive quality, safe medicinal products. From this point of view, the introduction of the requirements of the Directive is extremely important for the system of medicine supply in Bulgaria. GERB colleagues are interested in the question of how many protested, and I am interested in the question why they protested? Do they have reason to protest those who participated in this protest? Is there any possibility under the pharmacies support directive for the purchase of these software and those readers we are talking about? This, on the one hand. On the other hand, protesters ask the question: when will there finally be a drug policy strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria that includes all these elements we are talking about? In my opinion, the answer to these questions will enable the situation to be calmed by the introduction of these notorious readers so that they can ultimately not suffer either the Bulgarian patients or the pharmacists who are currently worried. And one last question I'd like to ask you. There are regions in the country where there is no Internet access. What happens in these regions? As little as they may be, there are pharmacies that do not have a practical opportunity to introduce these new tools to ensure the effectiveness and quality of medicine supply.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u21	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u22	Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dr. Ademov! The Directive, which I mentioned just now introducing the mandatory implementation of the verification system, provides for the necessary means for the Internet connection, for software, for hardware to be provided by the manufacturer or by the holder of the relevant rights. What I mentioned to the protesters, because they wanted state support to provide the necessary funds, is that, firstly, this is not required by the directive. Secondly, the State cannot grant this aid because this will be considered State aid. However, this issue is not addressed in this directive at all for the participation of the State in the provision of funds. On the second issue, we are not really developing a drug strategy at the moment, but with any change in the legislation governing drug policy, we are making certain decisions with which we are solving specific problems, and we are agreeing with the relevant word organisation. If there is a need to make an independent strategy for medicines alone, we should really consider whether there is a need for this and if so, we can make a working group to make such a strategy. Yes, there are indeed some places where there is no Internet or the connection is very bad, so we will look at every single case and there will be no harm to a pharmacy because there is no Internet connection and it is not her fault. But this will happen on the basis of a case-by-case basis. There is no way to write this requirement in principle, because we need to do the appropriate check just in case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u23	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A question from the Volk Parliamentary Group will obviously not be there because there is no one in the Chamber. We continue with the next cycle of questions. GERB's parliamentary group will not benefit from this right. From "United Patriarchs" "Come in, Dr. Popovski," you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u24	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! This is indeed a very important issue, because when we release medicines from countries outside the European Union, we expect surprises to also have counterfeit medicines. My question to the minister is: is there any data on what percentage of counterfeit medicines are available on the Bulgarian market so far? That we will continue with this system of medicines from outside the European Union, which is particularly important, I believe that this system should become national and universal, and small pharmacies should be considered for some additional funding. For the big pharmacies everything is clear they have computers, there the costs are small, only for the reader and software. But we can't, without that, because, as we know with fuels and with many other things, we have to fight against the grey economy and the medicines, and we know that there is a particularly dangerous way to enter counterfeit medicines that have a completely different biochemical formula that can damage the patient's health very seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u25	Thank you, Dr. Popovski. Here you are, Minister, for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u26	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Dr Popovski! It is natural that the presence of counterfeit medicines that threaten people's health is present both in all countries of the European Union and in our country. It is no accident that the European Union concludes that it is necessary to vote on such a directive and to introduce such a traceability regime. Both in Bulgaria and in all the countries of the European Union, there is this problem and we believe that with this verification system that we are introducing, the problem will be stopped and we will not put our citizens and our patients at risk of using counterfeit medicines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u27	Thank you, dear Minister. We'll continue with the questions. Question from the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Movement for Rights and Freedoms "Dr. Chakarov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u28	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Minister, as soon as we have signed our membership of the European Union, we have made serious commitments. In this context, what needs to be done and what we are discussing today rather has its clear framework and what steps and sequences should be implemented, but not only in order to fulfil our commitments as a member state of the European Union. As Dr. Ademov pointed out earlier, what should be implemented and done with the implementation of the regulation of this directive is in an aspect of improving the quality of the security of the decision and being as correct as possible in the healing process for our fellow citizens as patients. It is true that there are protests, it is normal to sometimes have such trials, and perhaps it should be clarified to the relevant stakeholders. We don't have an alternative. What if we do not fulfill our commitments? It is clear that our country will be in criminal proceedings. Personally, I wouldn't want us to be in this situation, in this position. Rather, this must be done. I hope this is your position and your vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u29	Thank you, Dr. Chakarov. What happens next, Minister, if the directive is not implemented? That was the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Chakarov, I am deeply convinced that we will meet all the requirements that the directive sets us, and we will leave such a period for our pharmacies to be sufficient for them to be able to create the necessary conditions to join our drug verification system. We are constantly in contact with the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, we are constantly conducting various forms of training, clarification and so on. I think we will not fall into a situation of failure to comply with this directive. We're following this process, just like we're doing right now. I want to tell you that every day new and new pharmacies come into the system, and no less than 10 of them 20 pharmacies come into the system every day. I hope we don't have any problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u31	Thank you, dear Minister. In accordance with art. 113 parliamentary groups have the right to express their attitude towards the responses of the persons heard. The Parliamentary Group of GERB is welcome, dear Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u32	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I consider it extremely important today's hearing with regard to the tensions that have been created by some pharmacists, and unfortunately by some opposition representatives, who once again attempted political use on a subject which is pro-European and which guarantees the security of Bulgarian citizens. I am responsible to say that the framework in Bulgarian health legislation regarding medicinal products is entirely synchronized with European legislation. The purpose of this framework is to guarantee Bulgarian citizens access to highly effective, quality, efficient and, above all, safe medicinal products. That is also the point of this regulation. I would just like to read the last sentence of the Regulation, and that is: the regulation is binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. In any case, the system for verification of medicinal products will enter Bulgaria because it is in the interest of Bulgarian patients. However, I believe that there has indeed been some delay with the regulation and that those responsible in the Drug Executive Agency should speed up the work on this regulation and give adequate guidance to the pharmacies in order to be able in the transitional period, which has been stated here, to make it clear how the pharmacies will function in order to implement this regulation and to have no tension and deficit about the access of Bulgarian citizens to Bulgarian products. I also believe that the Ministry of Health should be responsible for implementing the other information systems that we have committed to, even legally, we have regulated, with regard to parallel drug trade and with regard to the construction of the single health information system, so that these software does not create difficulties for pharmacists, but enable patients to receive quality medicines and at the same time ensure that adequate, accurate and correct information is collected that concerns medicine supply. This is a great challenge, but I hope that with our common efforts it will be realized because it is in the interests of Bulgarian citizens. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u33	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. The attitude shall be expressed within five minutes. There will be no relation expressed by the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Come in, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you, Mr. Minister, for the answers, but in our opinion, the tension that has been created is because there have been difficulties in communication. If the management of the Ministry of Health and all stakeholders in preliminary repeated discussions had reached certain positions that would be in line with this regulation, which, as it became clear, is mandatory regardless of what the information in Bulgaria is and what the application is, it would not have come to this tension. I am convinced that some of the demands of those who tried to protest, because it is obvious that this is not about mass protests, are also related to the introduction of the notorious electronic health system, including the electronic recipe, which is extremely important for the introduction of this verification system. In order for Bulgarian citizens to receive safe and effective medicinal products, it is clear that there must be an explanation, there must be talks, there must be a continuous dialogue with stakeholders, because I am convinced that both Bulgarian pharmacists and all participants in the healthcare system in Bulgaria are interested Bulgarian patients to receive safe medicinal products. It is clear that this system will be implemented. For us remains the lesson that when there are such European directives, we need enough time before their introduction to have a serious discussion, dialogue, so that all negative effects can be minimized.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u35	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Will there be any relation from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodophilists? I see Mr. Mareshki is in the hall. It's not gonna be relevant. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, this has exhausted the hearing procedure under art. 113. After a 10-minute break, we will continue with Parliamentary control. The first will be responsible again for the Minister of Health Mr. Kiril Ananiev. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u36	Honourable Members, we continue with written answers from: - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Emil Hristov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a request from the National Representative Milena Damyanova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Milena Damyanova; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on a question from the MPs Ivan Ivanov and Stoyan Mirchev. - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on ten questions from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on 27 issues from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Ivan Ivanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Nikolai Ivanov, Ivan Genov and Rumen Georgiev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Rumen Georgiev; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva on a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov, Pencho Milkov and Krum Zarkov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov, Pencho Milkov and Krum Zarkov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Elena Yoncheva, Christian Vigenin, Nikolay Penev and Pencho Milkev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Krum Zarkov, Georgi Stoilov and Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva on a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov of three questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivanov Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Ivan Ivanov and Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov of two questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on five issues from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Valeri Jablyanov; - Deputy Prime Minister of Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Kristian Vigenin, Yordan Mladenov and Lubomir Bonev; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the MPs Stanislav Vladimirov and Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on three issues from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Daniel Yordanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Violeta Zheleva and Nikola Dinkov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Zheleva; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov of four questions from the MPs Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Jeleva; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the MPs Donka Simeonova, Violeta Jeleva and Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Donka Simeonova, Georgi Gokov and Dragomir Stoinev; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Violeta Jeleva; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the MPs Georgi Mihailov and Ilian Timchev; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to ask the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Anelia Klisarova; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov to a question from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Gokov, Georgi Mihailov, Anelia Klisarova, Ilian Timchev, Valentina Naydenova and Ivan Ibrishimov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Gokov, Georgi Mihailov, Anelia Klisarova, Ilian Timchev, Valentina Naydenova and Ivan Ibrishimov; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov to a question from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Gokov, Georgi Mihailov, Anelia Klisarova, Ilian Timchev, Valentina Naydenova and Ivan Ibrishimov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on 29 questions from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Gokov, Georgi Mihailov, Anelia Klisarova, Ilian Timchev, Valentina Naydenova and Ivan Ibrishimov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev of two questions from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Gokov, Georgi Mihailov, Anelia Klisarova, Ilian Timchev, Valentina Naydenova and Ivan Ibrishimov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov on a request from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question by the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on four questions from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Manol Genov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Manol Genov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Bogdan Botsev and Nikolay Boshkov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Dragomir Stoinev and Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Rumen Gechev; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the MPs Mihail Hristov and Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Vasil Antonov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Stefan Burgeev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov. New questions concerning the period from 22 February 2019 to 28 February 2019. A question came in from: - People's Representative Alexander Ivanov to Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, on available national capacity and interest in the use of financial instruments under the European Structural and Investment Funds 2014 - 2020. It should be answered in the plenary session on 8 March 2019. - National Representative Menda Stoyanova of Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, concerning amendments and additions to Regulation No H-18 of 13 December 2006 for registration and reporting through fiscal devices of sales in commercial sites, requirements for their management software and requirements for persons who make sales via an electronic shop. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 8 March 2019. - National Representative Evgenia Angelova to Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, on the implementation of the intentions of the Republic of Bulgaria for simultaneous accession to the Currency-Course Mechanism II and to the Banking Union. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 8 March 2019. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. To a question from the MPs Dimitar Boychev and Diana Savateva about the risk of closing a specialized cardiosurgical hospital in Burgas and ensuring adequate care for the patients in the region will be responsible Minister Kiril Ananiev. Here you are, Mrs. Sawateva, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u37	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! In recent months, tensions have been created in Burgas regarding the risk of closing a health institution, which is in fact a specialized hospital uniting two activities: invasive cardiology and cardiosurgery. The management of the hospital announced in the public domain that it was not able to pay the rent, which was determined after an auction held and won by it. This created a problem in society: will there be a hospital in Burgas that reconciles these two activities? I would like to remind you that there was no invasive cardiology and cardiosurgery until 2007 in Burgas. That's when this health care facility showed up. Until now, the patients from Burgas were looking for such services in other places. After the opening of the hospital were covered these two activities. Then there were other health establishments that carried out invasive cardiology, but the specialized hospital, which is concerned, is the only one in Southeastern Bulgaria that combines invasive cardiology with cardiosurgery. We as MPs from Burgas are interested and engaged patients from the region to continue to rely on health care and invasive cardiology combined with cardiosurgery because statistics show that our region is one of the most affected by cardiovascular diseases. Don't take this the wrong way, we don't want to protect a certain health care facility. Our goal is aimed at the service itself and the health work itself. We are talking about invasive cardiology combined with cardiosurgery, and the need not to miss any, not one day of vacuum in which patients cannot rely on this health activity. Thank you. Before you answer, I would like to give you a martenitsa on behalf of the team of the Members of the National Assembly of Burgas. It's made of people with disabilities. [[National Representative Diana Savateva gives Martenitsa to Minister Kiril Ananiev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u38	And thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. After congratulations and kisses, Mr. Minister, you are welcome to answer the question regarding cardiosurgery in Burgas.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Savateva and Mr. Boychev, University Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment - Burgas AD is a state-owned medical institution, a joint stock company in which the state, represented by the Minister of Health, owns 87.04 per cent of the capital. According to the Company's Statute, the determination to dispose of real estate or eternal rights over them, respectively, renting them out, is within the competence of the Board of Directors of the Company. Achieve a high rental price for the premises he currently uses the specialized hospital in cardiosurgery and invasive cardiology is the result of an auction and bidding by the bidders, one of which is this hospital. The University Multi-Profil Hospital for Active Treatment has rented these premises after an auction with a view to respecting the principles of publicity and transparency, although the Rules of Procedure for the exercise of the rights of the state in commercial companies with state participation in capital are laid down for the conclusion of lease contracts only for single commercial companies with state participation in capital. The State medical establishment as a commercial company should conclude rental contracts through procedures to ensure its economic interest and by which it can be demonstrated that the most advantageous rental price has been achieved for the Company. Regardless of the above, given the exceptional importance of this activity for the population of Burgas, the Ministry of Health decided to support the University Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment in Burgas to establish an organization and take action with a view to the activities of invasive cardiology and cardiosurgery to be implemented by the state hospital. Within a short period of time, the management of the medical establishment should take appropriate legal action in order to ensure that the population has access to this type of medical care. I hope that a long-term sustainable solution will be found in this way to provide qualified medical care to patients with cardiovascular diseases from Burgas District from the University Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. I assure you, we will not allow the population to be left without this help one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u40	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u41	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I thank you for your reply and especially thank you for the responsible attitude you have shown as a minister and as the principal of this ministry, respectively, as the principal of the Burgas hospital for continuing this activity, because we all know it is lifesaving. As my colleague Diana Savateva paid attention ten years ago, Burgas did not have such lifesaving procedures and it was very difficult for the patients from Burgas to seek alternative treatment outside the district. Since we have this kind of activity, we are already attracting patients from the other districts - this is very important for the region of Burgas and for neighbouring areas. It is also very important what you last said that there will be no vacuum day, because still the situation of such activity requires time, but I see that it reacts adequately and in due time. Perhaps in the supplementary question I would ask you... as far as I know, yesterday the deadline has expired and a second participant is invited: is there any new situation in the rent and the participants in this tender, or is the activity and responsibility of the University Hospital Burgas, to develop this activity and take it as an activity to the medical establishment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u42	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Minister Ananiev, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u43	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Yes, indeed yesterday expired the deadline and after the first ranked canceled, it is natural to give the second one to the procedure. As far as I have information, there is an appeal to this decision to be given to the second ranked, so there will be a judicial procedure, but this will in no case interfere with the continuity of the treatment process for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u44	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The following is a declaration on behalf of a group. Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u45	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! After two days, 141 years of the Liberation of Bulgaria are completed. March 3rd is the holiday of the nation the day we celebrate Bulgaria's return to the map of Europe and the world. The day we raise our heads to show that we are proud and free heirs of our ancestors. And this year the monuments across the country will be showered with flowers of gratitude because we remember the feat of the thousands of heroes who sacrificed their lives to have a new Bulgaria. We bow our head to the heroism of Bulgarian revivalists, Levski and Botev, Rakovski and Karavelov. We do not forget the April Uprising of the People's Rebellion, which brings back hopes for free and independent Bulgaria. We bow our head in tribute to the thousands of Bulgarian volunteers whose heroism is sealed in the Vazova poem. Today, like the builders of then modern Bulgaria, we face many challenges. The unity of the nation, the preservation and preservation of universal human values, the revival of the Bulgarian spirit and the preservation of our cultural heritage will make us stronger in order to preserve ourselves as a people and a state. It is March 3rd that challenges us to be worthy Bulgarians and heirs of the holy work of the Bulgarian heroes. We have not forgotten what Botev, Levski, Vazov and the thousands of known and unknown characters have given their lives to have Bulgaria. Does it sound archaic to love your people, to sacrifice your life for his freedom, to forget about your family and children? Is love for our country stronger than love for life? Let it not sound romantic and naive, but from all of us, honourable Members, depends the future of Bulgaria. Regardless of our political bias, we are Bulgarians and our main task is to work for the prosperity of Bulgaria. On an ideal, we must not allow our political disputes to leave a mark on us. It is to live freely and in a free country. There is no more important goal for a country, for a nation and for a people than to defend and preserve their freedom! March 3rd is the celebration of the freedom of the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian spirit. We remember the case of the Liberation of Bulgaria, which ended 141 years ago with the signing of the San Stefanian peace treaty. We remember that freedom doesn't come free. For it, we must fight every day and every moment because freedom is a state of mind, not just a reflection of the political situation in a country. Therefore, despite our political differences, let us not forget that we are primarily Bulgarians, citizens of free will, unsubordinated to foreign ideals and values. Every day we must remember that we are descendants of a great nation, that we are guardians of a centuries-old history, and we deserve our independence. Knowing that as a people who have suffered their freedom, we have a worthy future, and it is freedom of spirit. Our future is in the belief that we have written and continue to write our history in golden letters. Our future is our generations who grow up brave and proud to be Bulgarians. March 3rd - every citizen, wherever he is, finds the place to place a flower, the place to take his child and together to hear the glorious ecclesiastical of the Balkan. Everyone shares in front of his family and friends: I love Bulgaria! This, honourable Members, is not a dream, this is our national unity that does not require budget, effort, organisation and is the strongest, national energy that will lead us forward and upward. I love Bulgaria! Happy Thanksgiving! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. We're continuing with parliamentary control. There is a question from the MPs Stefan Apostolov and Daniela Saveklieva about the activities of the Center for Assisted Reproduction. Mr. Apostolov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u47	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Between 10 and 15% of couples have reproductive problems. Thanks to assisted reproduction methods, many families have succeeded in fulfilling their dream of having a child. Increasing support for couples with reproductive problems was also an election promise of the political party GERB. My questions to you, Mr. Minister, are: what measures to increase support for couples with reproductive problems have been taken by the Center for Assisted............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Have higher criteria been introduced to in vitro clinics in order to improve the success of procedures? What is the period from the submission of applications for organizational and financial support from the Center for Assisted Reproduction until the delivery of the order?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u48	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Minister Ananiev, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Saveclieva, Dear Mr. Apostolov, the policy conducted by the Ministry of Health on priorities related to demographic issues in the field of health in Bulgaria and in particular with the activities of assisted reproduction meets the growing needs of couples with reproductive problems. From 1 January 2018, amendments and additions to the Rules for the Organisation of Work and Activities of the Center for Assisted Reproduction, allowing an increase in the possibilities of achieving pregnancy in pairs with reproductive problems, taking into account the new additional activities, as follows: the number of procedures financed for one candidate increased from three to four; the procedures financed, except for the transfer of fresh embryos, include the possibility of transferring frozen embryos; the indication of funding such as the Assisted Reproduction Centre takes over the funding of assisted reproduction of spontaneous cycle in case of a limited genetic disease or proven balanced chromosome mutation in at least one of the partners, as well as in the case of proven cancer disease in women. By 2018, the established annual budget of 12 million lv. It guaranteed the funding of about 2,000 500 in vitro procedures. The Budgetary Funds of the Centre for Assisted Reproduction have been increased to 20 million. lv. for 2018, which allowed an increase in the number of passed pairs financed by the Centre by 27%. In 2018, they financed 4,000 41 procedures. At present, there is no problem with the funding of the Center for Assisted Reproduction, and it respects its commitment to medical institutions to pay for assisted reproduction activities. The accounts of the medical institutions at the Centre shall be for the calendar year. Annual reports show that the number of children born in 2017 was 906, and in 2018 was 1053, i.e. 147 children more. The amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Centre, in force from 1 January 2018, introduced higher success criteria as a condition for the conclusion of a contract with the Centre in order to ensure the appropriate spending of public resources. Requirements for success were also introduced for the new medical institutions applying for a contract with the Centre for the first time. The medical establishments that worked under contract with the Center for Assisted Reproduction in 2017 also applied in 2018. 26 of them responded to the increased requirements for success according to the Rules of Procedure update and concluded a contract with the Centre. Four clinics failed to meet the requirements, which is why they did not perform procedures funded by the Centre. In October 2018, an additional contract was concluded with the University Hospital of Lozenets. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Shall I continue in a moment?!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u50	In the back, Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to proceed with the information. Thank you. Here's a line for you, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u51	Thank you for your comprehensive answer, Mr. Minister. We have all learned that there is a 20% increase in birth rate after the procedures taken, as well as a very high increase in the funding of couples with reproductive problems. I would like to thank you once again to the government of Mr. Borisov and the political party GERB for fulfilling their election promises. Because it was one of our pre-election promises, the limitless funding of people with reproductive problems. Thank you again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u52	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Mr. Minister, despite the satisfaction of the answer, please continue with the information and complete it you have the opportunity for a duplicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u53	Madam President, because there was one more question, I would like to be correct and answer it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u54	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u55	At the end of 2018, the Commission to the Centre for Assisted Reproduction shall examine all applications for organisational and financial support received within one month of their submission. As a result of the implementation of the commitments made to in vitro activities by the Ministry of Health, including a significantly increased budget for the activity, the number of issued orders in 2018 was increased by 25% compared to those issued in 2017, i.e. from 4152 to 5202. The increase in the number of orders served resulted in a significant shortening of the period of submission of the application for organizational and financial support by means of the Center for Assisted Reproduction until the delivery of an order which, from 11 months in the beginning of 2017, took place about five or six months at the end of 2017 and is now about three months from the date of application. This period thus corresponds to the average period of preparation and initiation of a procedure which in 2018 was 117 days from the date of service of the order until the initiation of the procedure itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u56	Thank you, Minister Ananiev. There is a question from the MP Venka Stoyanova concerning the National Health Information System. Please, Dr. Stoyanova, ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u57	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, my question requires an answer that not only our fellow Members expect, not just colleagues from the healthcare system, but also the whole society. He is, as Mrs. President said, about the National Health Information System. Dear Minister, in your statement you mentioned that the National Health Information System should be ready by the end of this 2019 or at the beginning of next year. It also became clear in addition that the system would be for 13 components. For most of the activities, public procurement has already been announced, including for the so expected electronic card, e-file and e-recipe. My questions to you are as follows. Firstly, what stage are we at today with the establishment of the National Health Information System? Secondly, what part of this system will be built by the end of the year? When do you expect her to be fully ready?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u58	Thank you, Dr. Stoyanova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Stoyanova, at present for nine of the activities the components of the National Health Information System are conducted procedures for the award of public contracts as follows: Public procurement with the subject of the contract for the development, introduction, implementation of national nomenclatures, health information standards, identification, authentication and basic functionality of the core of the National Health Information System (HSI) with which the following activities are awarded by the Project: Development and introduction of national nomenclatures required for use in the health sector in relation to medical information and exchanges in real time. Secondly, the development and implementation of national and health information standards for the exchange of medical data in real time. Next, the development and implementation of the basic functionality of the core of the National Health Information System, the identification and authentication subsystem. By the deadline for submission of the proposals, which was 25 January 2019, five tenders were received. At present, the procurement procedure is at the stage of consideration and evaluation of the proposals submitted by a commission appointed by the contracting authority. In March, the commission's work is expected to be completed and, in case there is no appeal, a contract with the selected contractor will be concluded in April. The planned period for the execution of the contract shall be up to 15 months from the conclusion of the contract. Secondly, a contract with the subject of a selection of contractors for the development of information systems and subsystems in the implementation of two activities. The first is the selection of the contractor of activity 9: building a single, national, electronic, medical file. Secondly, the second position is the selection of executive activity 10: building an electronic recipe and e-recipe subsystem. By the deadline for the submission of the proposal, which was 29 January this year, five tenders were received. At present, as in previous positions, the procurement procedure is at the stage of consideration and evaluation of the proposals submitted by a commission appointed by the contracting authority. The commission's work is expected to be completed in March and, in case there is no appeal, the contract with the participants elected will be concluded in April. The planned period for the construction of the electronic prescription subsystem and the electronic direction shall be up to nine months from the conclusion of the contract. That is, if there are no objections, appeals, at the end of the year we should already have the so expected electronic recipe and e-direction. Third, a contract with the subject of a selection of contractors for the development of information systems and systems of service in the execution of three of the activities, as follows: Position One "Selecting a contractor of activity 5: development and further development of the necessary registers for the implementation of the National Health Information System. Position two "Selecting a contractor of activity 6: developing an electronic administrative service subsystem." Position three "Selection of a contractor of activity 8: building of a health service portal". By the deadline for submitting the proposals, which was 19 February 2019, seven tenders were received. At present, under the same procedure, a committee shall examine and verify the documents. In April, the work of the committee is expected to be completed and, in case there is no appeal, a contract will be concluded with the selected performers in May. The planned period for the implementation of each of the three activities shall be up to six months from the date of the contract concerned. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] You want me to go over it again? There are several other components, if I may say them?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u60	All right, finish it!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u61	And these lots should be ready by the end of the year. The components for which public procurement is to be announced are as follows: activity 11: building a subsystem for collecting information from hospitals, and activity 12: building a system for monitoring and control in health care. A public contract for activity 13: Quality assurance and management in the construction of the National Health Information System will also be announced, which will monitor the proper implementation of the operational plans, schedules and processes associated with them throughout the life cycle of the implementation of the main activities of the completion of the system. By the end of 2019, most of the National Health Information System will be under construction and the following part of its components will be completed: the necessary registers for the implementation of the National Health Information System, the subsystems for electronic and administrative services and the health information portal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u62	Thank you, dear Minister. Dr. Stoyanova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u63	My line is: thanks to the Minister of Health for the comprehensive data he presented to the MPs. I would like to wish the team success and, within these deadlines, I hope that there will be no appeal against the procedures, so that we can begin to implement our common goal of building and starting the information system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u64	Thank you. Perhaps there won't be a duplicate, Mr. Secretary?! [[Mister Kiril Ananiev thanked from the spot.]] Thank you for your thanks. We are continuing with a question from the National Representative Alexander Alexandrov concerning a grant of 30 million. lv. for medical facilities. Here you are, dear Mr. Alexandrov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u65	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Minister, the government has granted 30 million. lv. for additional expenses of municipal and regional hospitals, as well as for psychiatric care facilities in Bulgaria. Surely this resource will be a breath of air for hospitals, but at this time medical staff is dissatisfied with the amount of remuneration. My questions to you are: is there an analysis of what these funds will be spent on from medical institutions? Will the directors of medical institutions be able to use some of this financial resource to increase staff salaries?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u66	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov! Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u67	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Alexandrov, in connection with a question received in the order of art. 95, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I would like to inform you of the following. PMS No 33 of 22 February 2019 approved additional expenditure on the budget of the Ministry of Health for 2019 amounting to 30 million. BGN, distributed as follows: For the municipal medical institutions, 18 million. BGN, including for 71 hospitals in hard-to-reach and/or remote regions of the country, distributed on the basis of number of population served and number of patients passed in the previous year. In the case of psychiatric care facilities, 2 million. BGN, distributed to 12 mental health centers and psychiatric wards to state and municipal hospitals based on bedtime treatment. In the case of emergency care facilities, the amount of EUR 10 million is estimated at EUR 10 million. lv. for 41 hospitals, including 26 district hospitals, distributed on the basis of number of patients passed, unhospitalized at the same hospital. In relation to the amendments to the Law on Medical Institutions in force from 1 January this year, on the basis of art. 106a, para. 6 The Ministry of Health will subsidize the medical institutions for the activities under art. 106, para. Art. 3 and Art. 106a, para. 1.. 5 and para. 7 of the Law on Medical Institutions, and Art. 82 Paragraphs 3, 3b, 6a, 6c, 8 and 9 of the Health Act in order and criteria laid down by a regulation of the Minister of Health, on the basis of annual contracts within the framework of the funds for these activities under the budget of the Ministry of Health for the relevant calendar year and subject to the requirements of the State Aid Act. The draft regulation has been developed and is to be uploaded on the website of the Ministry of Health for public consultation. The funds are allocated in order and criteria laid down in the draft regulation. The additional resources for 2019 for activities carried out by emergency medical facilities for medical institutions in difficultly accessible and/or remote areas of psychiatric assistance and other activities are related to the need to finance the units, to enable this group of hospitals to cover their costs of carrying out the activities financed by the Ministry of Health as a priority must be the costs of salaries. In view of the above, the managers of the medical institutions should carry out an analysis of the financial situation of the companies and familiarize the collective of the medical establishment with the financial parameters for carrying out the activity. The specific allocation of expenditure, of the additional funds, is within the competence of the management bodies of the medical institutions. In addition to what I have prepared in advance, I would like to inform you that this week we have sent the allocation of funds to municipal and regional hospitals. They already have the resources they will receive from the Ministry of Health. At the same time, the National Health Insurance Fund through regional health insurance funds also presented the budget that hospitals will have during this year, year-round, and already the directors and managements of medical institutions have to make this distribution under the established internal rules, and indeed the majority must go for an increase in wages. I have made a commitment at least for those medical institutions that I am a principal to meet with the directors and yet, as a financier and economist, to help them in this distribution, in order to really be able to work in these medical institutions, and especially for health professionals who have really low salaries, and I am convinced that their demands are fair, this increase must happen within the tools that are allowed by the Law. I think that in a medium period they will indeed reach a decent wage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u68	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. Dear Mr. Alexandrov, I can also pass on the thanks, but you have the right to reply. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u69	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! And I would like to personally convey my thanks and say that this clear and accurate response can be satisfied with medical staff, can be absolutely satisfied and wait for larger salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u70	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. The next question to Minister Ananiev is from the MP Hristo Grudev and is about the attack on doctors. Here you are, dear Mr. Grudev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, my question to you is about an attack on medics in the performance of their duties. Dear Minister, in recent years we have witnessed ongoing attacks on medical personnel, especially above those who are giving us first aid in emergency care centres and affiliates. We also saw the collective resignation of medical professionals in the branch of Emergency Medical Services in Gorna Oryahovitsa in support of the assaulted medic. On this occasion, my questions to you are as follows: what measures does the Ministry of Health take in cases of aggression against medical professionals in the performance of their duties? What security measures have been taken at the Emergency Medical Centers and Branches? Are there any convicted persons who have committed attacks on medical professionals? I'm done.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u72	Thank you, Mr. Grudev. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u73	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Grudev, an Agreement on Cooperation and Interaction between the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Health was concluded for the organization of the protection of medical teams throughout the country in 2015. In 2017, a working meeting was held between the Chief Prosecutor, the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Minister of Health, the directors of medical institutions in Sofia and the Center for Emergency Medical Care. At the meeting, an agreement was reached in each district prosecutor's office to have a prosecutor on duty responsible for the abuse of medics, as well as to take specific measures for immediate response by the prosecution in cases of crimes committed against medical professionals in the performance of their duties. The measures taken by the institutions include the establishment of a mechanism for the immediate disclosure by the heads of medical institutions of such crimes and immediate action by the police authorities and district prosecutors, the accelerated provision by the medical institutions of the evidence they require during the investigation, the priority investigation of such crimes and other measures. In accordance with the orders, local meetings were held, security and security checks were carried out in medical establishments, regulations were given to provide video surveillance, grilling and others. Another measure taken by the Ministry of Health is the provision of physical security, video cameras, panics in emergency medical centres and their affiliates, and an analysis of the needs of each centre will be carried out on the required number of cameras and the appropriate places to be installed. In this way, investigators will be able to use video footage to solve a crime faster. As regards the emergency medical care system, it should be noted that upon receiving a call, the so-called telephone triage is made by the dispatch teams in the regional coordination centres of emergency medical centres. It is a process of distribution, sorting of patients by establishing a medical priority depending on the degree of urgency and aims to achieve a level playing field of access to the emergency medical care system. However, for many years there has been a serious problem arising from the fact that some of the calls are not for emergency patients, but for patients who need to perform home manipulation or for patients who simply need medical attention. For such calls, after holding a telephone triage, delay during the time of the visit or refusal to perform the call is required, which is the cause of unfounded aggression by patients or their loved ones. The distinction between the unsubstantiated from the real emergency calls also creates difficulties due to the fact that unscrupulous citizens use false, misleading data when submitting information describing their situation as urgent. In order to overcome the problem, periodic training of dispatch teams receiving emergency calls is carried out for maximum use of medical triage, according to the medical standard. According to the Ministry of Health data from the beginning of this year, 114 cases of verbal and 8 cases of physical aggression have been registered in the emergency medical centers and about 227 cases of verbal and 34 cases of physical aggression have been registered in the medical institutions. According to the prosecution's data, five pre-trial proceedings were initiated in 2014 for assault against medical professionals at work and four people were convicted, of which: one was effective, one was conditional, one was probationed, and one was fined. In 2015, four pre-trial proceedings were initiated, one person was sentenced to pay a fine. In 2016, two pre-trial proceedings were initiated, four people were convicted, of which: two were sentenced, and two were fined. According to data from the Bulgarian Medical Union the newly formed proceedings for aggression against medical persons for 2017 are 37, for 2018. 26, with two of them having an effective verdict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u74	Thank you, dear Minister. I hope that the measures you take will have the effect you need and stop these disgusting acts. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I admire the actions taken by you and the Ministry of Health for good communication with the prosecution, with the Ministry of Interior. Unfortunately, as you said yourself, the attacks are not only physical, they are verbal. Much of the verbal attacks remain undisclosed, i.e. they are not transmitted on the vertical, but they leave bitterness in the medic and in the team with which he works, which remains for a long time, and this also prevents their effectiveness in their work, i.e. in the treatment of patients. In my opinion, the operational link must be strengthened first with the Ministry of Interior. I will recall and take you back a little before I was elected to the National Assembly, I worked in regional administration. We had a severe attack on medics in a medical emergency center in Plovdiv region. With the help of the Ministry of Interior, we built a slender system of communication, that is, when a call came to the Emergency Center, the same call was received by the Ministry of Interior, who was on duty at the Regional Directorate. They had divided their area into zones and in these more conflict zones, first of all an operating car was going from the Ministry of Interior, then an emergency car was going. In this way, just a few months later, the attacks on medics and medical teams stopped. This is, in my opinion, a good job of communicating with the Ministry of Interior. If you decide, here is the Minister of Interior, in more conflict areas you can work in this way. I am referring to Plovdiv region and the Regional Directorate of Interior in Plovdiv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u76	Thank you, dear Mr. Grudev! There's not gonna be a duvet. We move on to the next issue, which is from the MP Daniela Daritkova, about the current situation with the spread of measles diseases in the country. Here you are, dear Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u77	Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In recent months, dear Mr. Ananiev, new cases of measles have been reported daily, which is known for its extreme contagion. The epidemiological situation in our neighbouring countries has been quite complicated in recent years in relation to the spread of this infectious disease. Many European countries report significant increases in measles cases in them. The World Health Organisation warns that this may also be due to the refusal of vaccination despite access to vaccines. In 2018, 72 people died of this disease in Europe. In Bulgaria in 2017 there were 165 cases of measles reported, for 2018 these cases were only 13. In our neighbouring country, Romania, for 2017 there were 9072 cases registered, in 2018 they were 2087. In Greece, for 2017 the cases were 2193, for 2018. 1067. Serbia, 2017 In 2018, cases increased to 5076. In order to prevent the progressive spread of measles, timely anti-epidemic measures are very important. In this regard, my questions to you are: what is the current number of measles patients and in which regions of the country? What's their immunization status? What measures are being taken to limit the spread of measles and prevent an epidemic?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u78	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u79	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr Daritkova, 52 cases of measles have been reported at the Ministry of Health on 27 February 2019. Of these, 31 are laboratory confirmed in the National Reference Laboratory. Laboratoryally unconfirmed by the Reference Laboratory and rejected as cases of measles six have become sick on one of the districts of Varna, Veliko Tarnovo, Kyustendil, Lovech, Pernik and Haskovo. Three areas in the country are affected territorially: Blagoevgrad Sofia-City seven, Sofia district, 3 people who have become ill. Forty-four patients or 84.62 percent of them were persons up to the age of 18. Regarding the immunization status of patients: 27 persons are without immunizations against the disease, of which 24 are children - 10 children due to incomplete immunization age and 14 due to rejection; 15 persons are immunized with a single dose of the combined measles, mumps and Reuben vaccine, of which 13 children are regularly immunized for their age; one person over 30 has two received measles vaccines; nine persons are without evidence of vaccination against measles. Immunity coverage in the country over the last seven years is between 91.5% and 95.1% in 13 months and 87.4% and 94% in 12 years. In relation to the situation in relation to measles in the country, the following measures are ordered to limit the spread of the disease at national level: - general practitioners should review the immunization status of individuals from 13 months to 18 years of age subject to vaccination against measles and immediately begin to cover the detected non-immunosed and incomplete immunization status with one dose of a combined measles, mumps, Reuben vaccine, at the same time as prioritised vaccination against measles of those subject in 2019; - doctors in hospital and outpatient care facilities to focus their attention on early detection of the clinical symptoms of measles and on organizing the necessary actions for communication, registration, isolation, diagnosis and treatment; - cases of measles symptoms should be directed to consult an infectious person and according to the severity of the condition for hospitalization and treatment; - further epidemiological and social indications of hospitalization to direct children, especially in an early age group, living in poor housing conditions where isolation and home treatment cannot be performed and where the risk of complications and death is high; - in hospitals strictly apply anti-epidemiologic measures to prevent internal hospital spread of measles as airborne infection, according to Ordinance No 3 of 2013; - medical personnel of hospital care facilities serving patients with immunity data; - medical professionals without established immunity to measles virus should be immunized with the three-component measles, mumps and Reuben vaccine, according to Ordinance No 4 of 2002; - the testing of serum samples and their examination at the National Reference Laboratory shall be carried out in strict compliance with the instructions for collection, storage and transport to the laboratory of clinical materials for laboratory diagnosis of measles; - regional health inspections shall carry out a timely and qualitative epidemiological study of diseased and contactable and shall strictly enter the data into the information system for the collection and analysis of morbidity data from measles, Reuben and epidemic mumps, according to art. 5, para. 7 of Regulation No 21; - additionally to RZI Blagoevgrad and the Sofia RZI, where the outbreaks of measles are registered in order to ensure timely and good access to immunization, the use of mobile cabinets is ordered when covering the exposed persons aged 13 months to 18 years with deficiencies in the vaccination scheme. In order to achieve the necessary effectiveness of the actions taken, it is recommended that health inspections seek assistance from healthy mediators on the ground, NGOs with regard to the protection of public health, ethnic and religious leaders and others to explain the risk of the disease, the need to immunize and actively search for incompletely immune and missed persons. On 26 February 2019 a meeting of the Expert Council on the Supervision of Infectious Diseases and Anti-epidemiologic Control was held, at which, following presentation and discussion of the registered cases of measles and the measures taken so far, it was summarised that the measures are timely and adequate. The situation in the country is similar to the global decline in immunization coverage observed in recent years leading to epidemic outbreaks and epidemics in many countries. For this reason, the Ministry of Health developed and proposed to the Council of Ministers the National Programme for the Elimination of measles and Reuben 2019, adopted by Decision No 741 of 17 October 2018. In conclusion, I inform you that the Ministry of Health and Regional Health Inspections will continue to take and implement all necessary actions and measures to limit the occurrence and spread of measles on the territory of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u80	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. Mrs. Daritkova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u81	Dear Minister, I believe that the information provided will give the public comfort that the measures taken by the Ministry of Health are timely, serious and responsible. This is of great importance because we have the memories of the 2009 outbreak, 2010 when in Bulgaria there were 24 000 sick and 24 dead. I believe that we have always highlighted in recent years the good condition of these anti-epidemic measures taken after the 2010 epidemic, because, against the backdrop of the whole of Europe, Bulgaria was indeed a country with a very low prevalence of this contagious disease. I believe that the combined efforts of all who carry out immunoprophylaxis are of great importance for us not to allow the spread of forgotten infectious diseases on the territory of the country. The World Health Organization has identified the antivaccinal currents as one of the ten greatest health threats in the world, because we have to repeat constantly that the effect of vaccines is actually their defect. We think that the diseases have disappeared, but in fact if the immune coverage of the population again appears forgotten infectious diseases, which lead to many complications, unlike vaccines, which at the present stage are really highly effective, high-quality and with very small percentage of complications. I hope that certain tensions will also be healthy in order for everyone responsible to look at immunoprophylaxis from those who place the vaccines to those who bear responsibility for their children, for their health and life, for the health of everyone in society, because it is necessary for high vaccination coverage to ensure the health of those who for medical reasons cannot be immune. I believe that the measures we have taken since 2010 with the inclusion of health mediators, with the requirement in the Family Aids Act for children to receive these only in the case of completion of immunization status and preventive examinations, will continue to give their effectiveness and all of us to take into account that we have done better than all European countries with the challenge.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u82	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger? There's nothing to say like a douche bag. That concludes the questions to you. Happy holidays! We are moving on to a single question to Mladen Marinov, Minister of Interior, and he is from the National Representative Ivan Valkov on ensuring public order and security in the country in the event of sporting events. Here you go, Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, my question to you is about ensuring public order and the security of sporting events. This is a topic where we know that there are several risk factors. The main challenge for the authorities of the Ministry of Interior are the two main major cities in Bulgaria. sofia and Plovdiv, and in Sofia these are the agitates of................................................. and of........................................................................................................................................................................................ Another significant risk factor in this regard is the poor material base in stadiums and halls, which does not allow the authorities of the Ministry of Interior to carry out their duties as well as possible. Last but not least, we should note the use of pyrotechnic means during these sporting events. In this regard, my security issues are as follows. With the adoption of legislative changes from 2018, in particular in the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Public Order, the possibility of increasing the effectiveness of police activity has been given to sporting events. What are the concrete results with regard to the measures and sanctions imposed by the police and sports organizations, the Bulgarian Football Union and others? Are there sufficient measures to ensure the integrity of Bulgarian citizens and police officers? Secondly, as a major risk factor, violence against police officers by sports supporters continues to be a major factor. It should be mentioned here that on 24 February 2019 two police officers were injured in a fight between the football fans of Levski and CSKA. What are the concrete steps taken by the Ministry of Interior to ensure the necessary prevention in order to prevent such attacks against police officers? My last question is: how is the use of pyrotechnic articles controlled during sports events and what are the preventions and countermeasures to this problem?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u85	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Valkov, with the entry into force of the amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the event of sporting events, an almost double reduction of the use of pyrotechnic articles in sports events is reported. As statistics: from 776 cases for the autumn 2017 season, on 412 for the fall 2018 season. On the other hand, the number of forced administrative measures is increased: from 22 for the autumn 2017 season, to 39 for the fall 2018 season. These forced administrative measures have an extremely preventive and deterrent effect, as the persons who are being imposed are banned from visiting sporting events in the country and abroad for a period of one to five years. The privacy of police officers is currently listed in art. 5 of the Ministry of Interior Act. The application of the provision of art. 5 on the physical integrity of the employees of the Ministry of Interior shows that the specific protection of the Law is difficult to achieve in the provision without the clarification of the provisions of art. 264, para. 2 of the Ministry of Interior Act administrative penal provision and increase the amount of the fine envisaged for the hypotheses in which there is no crime. I inform you that the Ministry of Interior has drawn up a draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, in which it is precisely such a change of art. 264, para. 2 of which, for violation of the physical integrity of a police authority in the performance of its duties through the use of physical force or subject matter, provides for the imposition of a fine of BGN 2000 if the act does not constitute a crime. In carrying out the activity of ensuring public order in sports events, measures are implemented aimed primarily at preventing violence and bad behaviour of viewers, as follows: we are forming an interdepartmental working group of employees of the Directorate-General for National Police and the Ministry of Interior and the Bulgarian Football Union, which determines the degree of risk when holding the respective football meeting. A sufficient police force shall be provided in relation to the risk identified for the specific meeting to engage in the protection of public order at both stadiums and adjacent territories along the path of movement of supporters. The legislation in force for the imposition of measures on persons who have committed criminal offences, as well as against the sports facilities of supporters with forced and administrative measures, shall apply.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In connection with various incidents occurring on the territory of the city of Sofia 17 fines and 17 forced and administrative measures were imposed. A ban to attend sports events in the country and abroad of persons carrying out anti-social activities within the meaning of the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the conduct of sports events was imposed on four persons and on four persons. 354a.. possession of narcotics, and five persons have been subject to pre-trial proceedings for a criminal offence under art. 325 "Criminal Code" hooliganism. In connection with the incident that you reported, in which police officers were injured, five persons were detained. Further operational and search activities shall be carried out to identify other persons involved in the case. Prior to sports events taking place on the territory of Sofia and in the country, preliminary actions are planned and conducted, including meetings with Sofia Municipality, the Bulgarian Football Union, the National Sports Base, football clubs, sports federations and other institutions that are relevant to the event and the infrastructure of the sports facility. For each event according to its nature and scale, the relevant risk assessment shall also be carried out by planning and determining the number of employees and their places of action. The use of pyrotechnic articles during sporting events is prohibited under the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the conduct of sporting events, and the control is carried out by employees of the Ministry of Interior or private security companies, as the law allows the organizer of the event to conclude such security contracts with private security companies. The control shall be carried out by carrying out a thorough crossing mode of the entrances of the sporting objects or pre-established checkpoints within the sports area. Part of the prevention of the restriction of the use of pyrotechnic articles is the investigation of unauthorised distribution, storage and possession of pyrotechnic articles, as well as the construction of video surveillance systems for sports equipment and sports area. In view of the infrastructures and facilities at which sporting events take place, it can be said that, at present, the sports facilities, which most meet the requirements, are the National Stadium in Sofia and, respectively, the Hall of Arena Armeec, where sports events are also held, such as the latter, following a change of the Law and the construction of the relevant video surveillance, which already has opportunities and facial recognition, are precisely those results from the last meetings, where the number of use of pyrotechnic articles and attempts of persons with forced and administrative measures are significantly reduced, to attend the relevant events, which, in turn, enhance the preventive effect of this measure, as the only desire of each fan is to attend the meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u86	Thank you, dear Minister. A line? Here you go, Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to express my satisfaction with your reply, Mr. Minister, because it is clear that the amendments that were made just one year ago in the Law give their effective measures. You said yourself that from 776 violations they fell to 418, which is nearly twice, and shows a high efficiency. I would also like to express my satisfaction that there are additional measures prepared under the Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, which concern the employees of the Ministry of Interior. I am confident that these measures will be supported by fellow Members of Parliament, because only in this way will we have a serious opportunity to fight this sector and these violations, so that we can normally lead our children and relatives at these sporting meetings to turn this into a holiday and not into things that are unworthy of our society. Thanks again for the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger? No. The questions to you are over. Happy holidays! We move on to questions asked to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Petya Avramova. The first question is from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov on the construction of an additional road section on the territory of the municipality of Sandanski. Here you are, dear Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! The good condition and optimal functioning of the Republican road network is an important condition for our economic growth and for the development of the respective regions in the country. The overall construction of the highway is undoubtedly a national strategic project for both the country and the entire Southwestern region. One part of it is already ready and functioning normally and the other part is about to be completed. At the end of last year, a new 24km stretch of it was opened between Kresna and Strumiani municipalities and this largely eased traffic in the region and created much better conditions for better and optimal movement of people and goods. At the same time, the launch of this new section seriously limited the use of the other main road in the region, namely the main road E-79 in the municipality of Sandanski. In this area the main road E-79 was the main road artery for the connection between the Sandanski municipal center and numerous settlements in the municipality of Novo Delchevo, Sklave, numerous settlements in the Melnik region and others. After the launch of this highway section, the only road to these villages was the bypass movement through the new highway section. This largely creates many inconveniences, many difficulties of not a small part of the municipality's employees and especially the inhabitants of these settlements, with a significant increase in the road to these villages, it will probably be necessary to purchase relevant wine stickers, inconvenience associated with the time of movement, greater transport costs and so on. According to information we own, a corresponding road section is designed to be the most convenient, the direct link between the main road E-79 and the many settlements near the newly discovered highway section. In this regard, my specific question to you is: is there really such a draft for an additional bypass that is the warm connection between the main road E-79 and the municipality of Sandanski, which directly connects a small part of the villages in this municipality? If there is such a draft, what are the deadlines for its construction and opening of this new section? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. Dear Mrs Avramova, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Stoyanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In relation to the question you have asked, Mr. Stoyanov, I inform you that a technical project has been prepared for a new road connection on road 1.1. E-79 with a municipal road village of Novo Delchevo selo Damyanitsa in Blagoevgrad district. The site is part of the project for the construction of the highway "Struma" Lot 3.3. The implementation of Struma Motorway Lot 3.3. is under Operational Programme "Transport and Transport Infrastructure 2014/2020" and is carried out under contract Agreement on Design and Construction No 137 of 25 September 2015 with Contractor Consortium "Struma" Lot 3.3. The maximum agreed price is 280 million. 947 thousand. BGN 614. with VAT and under the Operational Programme the funding is allocated 85% European funds and 15% national co-financing. On 21 February the technical project was submitted to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for approval under art. 145, para. 1 of the Law on construction of the territory for issue of a building permit on the basis of art. 148, para. 3 of ZUT. The time limit for the construction of the road link on road 1.1. E-79 with a municipal road village of Novo Delchevo selo Damyanitsa is within the term of the Treaty on the design and construction of the highway of Struma Struma lot 3.3, namely 9 May 2019. You know that 24 kilometers of this contract have already been completed and put into service early. The connection of the existing road E-79 with the municipal road 12.36 aims to provide access to E-79 of the nearby settlements, namely Damyanitsa, Novo Delchevo, Sklavae and others. The connection starts from road E-79 and separates from it, passing east along an existing drainage channel. The track also passes between the fence of Technopolis store and the existing Traphopost. The connection gauge is G-8 with two lanes of movement, two leading stripes and two banquets. The horizontal and vertical elements of the design decision are in a situational and galeary way in line with the current regulations, with their minimum values being met to ensure smooth operation, drainage and traffic safety. A detailed design has been developed for the organisation of the movement with horizontal marking and vertical signalling, which will regulate the smooth switch from main road E-79 to the connection and adjacent locations. The contract and the milestone relationship will be completed within the time limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u92	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Here's a line, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u93	Dear Minister, I thank you for your information on the case. The factology presented by you is not only important, it is useful for the actual state so far and the upcoming actions by the Ministry and the Road Infrastructure Agency. It is glad that a project has already been drawn up and, as you said, the 21st has already been submitted to you. I hope he gets approved. It is obvious that its financial security is available and I hope, as you have said, that the construction works will be started as quickly as possible and will be completed within a maximum period of time without this being at the expense of quality, because although small of less than one kilometer, this section is regionally important for the residents of Sandanski, Damianitsa, Sklave and Novo Delchevo. It is important and necessary not only for the inhabitants of these villages, it is also important for the E-77 road, because there is neither technical nor infrastructure logic a major road to become a real road without exit as it is now. And it is quite logical and appropriate to use it as the direct sports connection between the Sandanski municipal center and a large part of its settlements. The construction of this new section will greatly alleviate not only a large part of the residents of the municipality of Sandanski, but also the highway section in the nearby region, because a large part of the inhabitants of these villages work in the municipal center and are currently using this highway section. When the new precinct is made, the highway will be really relieved. We all remember that at the beginning of February there was a very serious accident, a disaster caused by the thick fog. If we had taken measures and this, although a small segment, was made, perhaps this chain disaster would not have such serious consequences and the life of a decent person living in Novo Delchevo, Dimitar Kostadinov, is said to be preserved. I admire everything you do! I hope for your understanding of the relevant case and for direct assistance for its completion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. We move on to the second question to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works from the National Representative Alexander Alexandrov about the major repair of the Republican road III-1003 Rudartsi. Here you are, dear Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u95	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! In 2018, I asked a question about the intentions of the Road Infrastructure Agency to launch a major renovation of third-class road III-1003 Rudartsi "Kladnitsa," which is in the territory of Pernik district and is in a very poor operational state. Then I received information that for the section there is a design readiness and procedures for selecting the contractor of the construction works are being carried out. My question to you is: have the procedures under the Public Procurement Act been completed for the selection of contractor of the construction works and supervision? Are there contracts signed and when will the execution of the object really start? Is the necessary financial resource available for the main repair of road III-1003 Rudartsi "Kladnitsa"?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u96	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Alexandrov, honourable MPs! In 2018, the Agency launched procedures under the Public Procurement Act for the selection of contractors of the construction works and for the supervision of road III-1003 Rudartsi "Kladnitsa." Currently, the procedure for selecting a contractor of the construction works is at the stage of consideration of the technical proposals of the participants. At the beginning of March this year, the price proposals of the admitted participants are intended to be opened and, if no justification is required at the proposed prices, the decision on the ranking of the candidates will be announced. If it is not contested, the contract with the selected contractor is expected to be signed at the beginning of April. Under the selection procedure, a decision on the ranking of candidates is already in place. The company "Transconsult BG" Ltd. has been selected as a contractor. There is currently a deadline for appeal of the decision to the KPC. In the event that there are no complaints against it, the contract with the selected company is expected to be signed in March. For the site there is a finished technical project and a construction permit has been issued so that after signing contracts with the selected contractors the construction can begin. The indicative deadline for the start of construction activities is the middle or end of April. For the implementation of the site there is provided funding from the budget of the Agency "Travel Infrastructure" for 2019. The indicative value of the construction works is 6 million. Nine hundred and 200 leva. with VAT and the value of supervision is 98 thousand. £760. with VAT. The implementation period of the site shall be 18 months from the date of drawing up and signing of the Protocol Model 2a for the opening of a construction site and the setting of a construction line and level and shall be up to the date of the establishment and signature of a constitutional act................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Our forecasts are, if there is no appeal to procedures, at the beginning of the construction season to start real construction activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u98	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Here's a line for you, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u99	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! This time it is indeed in a very bad state, and I thank you for the measures taken, because 7 million is a small amount that I think will be able to improve the southern approach to Vitosha Nature Park. This is also important for tourism on this side of Vitosha, and in general for the people who live there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Aleksanadrov. We move on to the next issue by the National Representative Daniela Dimitrova on energy efficiency in the peripheral regions. Here you go, Mrs. Dimitrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My question is about energy efficiency in the peripheral regions. Dear Minister, one of the main objectives of the Operational Programme "Regions in growth" 2014 " 2020" is intended to support the implementation of energy efficiency measures in public residential buildings in small towns, centers of municipalities in peripheral regions, which provide services to surrounding peripheral areas. The activities to be carried out are expected to improve the energy efficiency of buildings, which will directly contribute to reducing the final consumption of energy and indirectly to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. As a result, it is expected to improve the average background indicators in small towns and thus increase air quality and living conditions in them. At the end of January this year, the evaluation of the projects under the procedure was completed. In this regard, I would like you to provide more information on the number of municipalities that received grant approval under the Programme, what is the amount of funds and what will be the expected effect of the project implementation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u102	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dimitrova. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Dimitrova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Within the framework of the procedure Energy efficiency in the peripheral regions of the European Union, under Priority Axis 2 in support of energy efficiency in the peripheral districts of the Operational Programme of the European Economic Area (Employment) of the Operational Programme, 32 project proposals of 19 municipalities, beneficiaries of the fourth level of the national polycentric system at a total value of the grant financial assistance of more than 32.9 million were approved for funding. lv. The approved projects include activities to improve the energy efficiency of multi-family residential buildings, buildings from municipal and state administration, municipal, educational, social and cultural infrastructure. Projects of the municipalities of Belogradchik, Berkovitsa, Botevgrad, General Toshevo, Devin, Elhovo, Zlatograd, Karnobat, Krumovgrad, Malko Tarnovo, Mezdra, Novi Pazar, Peshtera, Pomorie, Popovo, Razlog, Svilengrad, Sevlievo and Troyan are approved. The energy efficiency procedure in the peripheral regions is a continuation of the first energy efficiency measure in the peripheral regions under which 170 contracts have been concluded at a total value of more than 167 million. lv. Priority axis 2 of Operational Programme "Regional Development" 2014 "2020" is designed to support the implementation of energy efficiency measures in public and residential buildings in small towns, centers of municipalities that provide services to surrounding peripheral areas. The aim is to improve the energy efficiency of buildings in the target areas, which will directly contribute to reducing the final consumption of energy and indirectly, as you mentioned, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The ultimate goal is to improve the performance of the building fund in small towns and therefore increase the quality of air and living conditions in them.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u104	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Mrs. Dimitrova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u105	Madam Minister, I want to thank you. Although for a municipality of our district, it matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u106	Thank you. We move on to the next question by the MP Hristo Grudev, about Lot 6 road II-86 Plovdiv. Here you are, Mr. Grudev, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, my question to you is about Lot 6, road II-86 Plovdiv, from km 25+150, with a total length of 10 km 300 m, located on the territory of Plovdiv district. Dear Minister, in the summer of 2017 the long-awaited rehabilitation of road II-86 Plovdiv started. The road section between the two cities passes through an industrial area with great load and the traffic for Plovdiv airport is carried out on it. This is an object to which we have great expectations in order to ensure safe and comfortable movement and also to solve the problem of transport communication in the area. Dear Minister, please inform me what is the progress of the site, when are the construction works expected to be completed, what funds are invested in the implementation of the site, as well as the social effect of its implementation? I'm done.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u108	Thank you, Mr. Grudev. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Grudev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Road Infrastructure Agency is a contracting entity of a public contract for construction of a lott 6, road II-86 Plovdiv, asenovgrad, from km 14+860 to km 25+150, with a total length of 10,29 km, Plovdiv district. The site is funded by Operational Program "Regions in growth 2014 " 2020" and is a rehabilitation of the existing western canvas and construction of a new eastern canvas. A contract was signed for construction and construction works worth 23 million. Fifty-five thousand. 15 leva. with VAT. The aim of the project is to increase the crossing power of the road section and ensure a higher level of road safety. After the project will be implemented quick transport access will be provided to the residents of the municipalities of Kuklen and Asenovgrad with highway. The road section is the main link of the city of Plovdiv with Plovdiv airport and the journey will be greatly relieved. The planned investment in road II-86 makes it possible to develop the specific economic potential of the region through increased mobility and access to the markets, as the area through which road II-86 passes is industrial, and also near the section is built an industrial and commercial zone. This will lead to improving the business climate as a basic prerequisite for attracting investment and creating new jobs. The project decision for Lot 6 was developed in 2008 and provides for a circular and elliptical intersection to be implemented at the site of the existing intersections for the village of Krumovo and the village of Kuklen respectively. From the preparation of the technical project until the start of the construction, a long period of time has passed and the circumstances relating to access to the road have changed, therefore a need to ensure access to the newly built road section has arisen. In order to ensure access of adjacent properties to road II-86, the project solution was reconsidered and the municipalities of Rhodopes, Kuklen and Asenovgrad commissioned a project for local sails on both sides of the road. On the part of the Road Infrastructure Agency the tender procedure for the construction of a technical project and construction of the site is to be announced on the basis of the project. The project's indicative value is 20 million. 976 thousand with VAT, with the funds coming from the state budget. The implementation period shall be 485 calendar days, of which 120 calendar days for the design of the technical design. The design of the localities required a change of the main technical project, consisting in updating the drainage of the road section and further design of two new circular intersections along the route II-86 as follows: at the intersection with the road around the town of Asenovgrad and at the intersection for the quarter of Dolni Voden. The construction of Lot 6, road II-86 Plovdiv, asenovgrad, from km 14 to km 25 is expected to be completed in the second half of April 2019. In connection with the additional award of the construction of the local sails and the construction of circular intersections at the site of the Triple Crossroads, an agreement is signed with the contractor under the Contracting Agreement...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Fifty-five thousand. 15 leva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u110	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Here's a line for you, Mr. Grudev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, this is one of the projects in our region that has been expected for the longest time. The start of the design was from 1982. Several projects were prepared which subsequently dropped out, but in my opinion the main reasons for not getting this thing so far were two. Firstly, a lack of funding and, secondly, a committed person to run the paperwork in front of the various institutions. Thanks to the current government and, in particular, the prime minister, who personally committed to this project, the project is in an advanced phase. Currently on the rehabilitated and new route there is a temporary organization of movement. My fellow citizens and compatriots use the road, I can say, with pleasure, although the definition is not exactly a quick and safe road. An investigation shall be carried out before the construction of the road begins. About 21,000 went by. The car every day. Three people in a car without buses, that's about 60,000. The person per day is about 1 million. $800,000. The man for a month. That is to say, for 3 months, almost the entire population of the country passed. A huge load related to road accidents, with deaths, with severe consequences for the health of the victims. Sincere admiration from both me and my fellow citizens for building this road. I'm just gonna ask you to do the following situation when you design the locations. We have children's centers that are located at the end of the city's exit in the direction of Plovdiv. That is, when the mother and the children go and use the children's center to play with their children and so on, then to go back to the city, an additional eight kilometers pass. You have to go down to the next circular, which is up to the square. "Downwater Waters" and then return to the city. If you can build some connection from the locals directly to the city so that this additional road that costs and pays fees and so on can help people who have objects around the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u112	Thank you, Mr. Grudev. The next question to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works is from the National Representative Dimitar Alexandrov on Operational Programme "Regions in Growth 2014 " 2020." Here you are, dear Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, Operational Programme "Regions in growth 2014 " 2020 " is an integrated operational programme funded by the European Union through the European Regional Development Fund, as well as by the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is aimed at regional development and towards achieving the goals of urban policy in Bulgaria. It finances activities aimed at ensuring balance in cities and contributing to sustainable urban development and creating favourable conditions for improving quality of life, as well as new jobs in cities. In this regard, my question to you is: what measures will the Managing Authority of the Programme take with regard to the saved financial resources after the public procurement of the contracts concluded under Priority Axis 1 with the beneficiary of the country's 39 major cities?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u114	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Alexandrov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, yesterday and today a Monitoring Committee under the Operational Programme is taking place "Regions in Growth" where the Managing Authority of the Programme will propose an approved approach in which the municipalities beneficiaries under Priority Axis 1 "Sustainable and integrated urban development" will use savings after holding public contracts, financial resources under the contracts for grant financial assistance to implement new project proposals from their investment programmes. The above must be when using the application guidelines under the procedure or to cover an eligible own contribution included in the grant agreements already concluded. An exception shall be those projects which are structured as those generating revenue. With last year's amendment of the Guidelines for Application under Priority Axis 1, the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme allowed municipalities to update their investment programmes in 2018 and 2019 by including new project ideas on certain investment priorities. In this regard, after approval of the approach, the Managing Authority will enable the municipalities beneficiaries under Priority Axis 1 to use savings after public procurement, financial resources. At present, as a result of the concluded anexes in the grant contracts of municipalities, after public procurement, this resource amounts to 5.4 million. lv. It is expected that, following the approval of the Monitoring Committee of the Programme and announcing this possibility, municipalities will request the conclusion of additional grant reduction agreements, which in turn will result in a significant increase in the resources to finance projects under certain investment priorities. I've already quoted the amount saved under Priority Axis 1. It is expected that after the submission of information and the conclusion of anexes by municipalities it will be increased. The total spare resource on all priority axes is about 24 million. It is expected to grow after the conclusion of anexes, so municipalities will have the opportunity to apply with other project ideas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u116	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response. We are sure that this financial resource will do additional work to build new infrastructure and other events, which will naturally be for the welfare of the inhabitants of these cities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u118	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. The next question to Minister Avramova is from the MPs Valentin Milushev and Radoslava Chekanska about repair work on the road ΙΙ-62 Dupnitsa Here you go, Mrs. Chekanska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u119	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, road ΙΙ-62 Dupnitsa The second-class road conducts intensive and heavy freight traffic, which is a long-distance tour of the city of Sofia and it is therefore of great importance that the technical characteristics of the road meet the current requirements for loadability and traffic safety. At the same time, the road is in very bad shape. The means of ongoing maintenance no longer ensure a lasting improvement in the compromised areas. In 2018, on my question to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, I received the assurance that the road is a priority in the Agency's programme. In the meantime, public procurements are being conducted to select a contractor for the construction works and supervision. In this regard, my question to you is: when will the construction works start, if any? Is funding provided, how much is it worth and what are the deadlines for the implementation of the site? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u120	Thank you, dear Mrs. Chekanska. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Chekanska, dear Mr. Milushev, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! As we informed you last year from the tribune of the National Assembly, about the Republican road ΙΙ-62 Kyustendil "Dupnitsa" "Klisura" in sections from kilometre 42+263 to kilometre 78+633 with a total length of 32,5 km, falling within the territory of the districts of Sofia and Kyustendil, there are prepared technical projects for rehabilitation and reconstruction in two lots of lott 27, road ΙΙ-62 Dupnitsa. At that time, however, there was still no funding provided for the realization of the sites. All efforts are made to find a solution to this problem. Following the conduct of public procurement contracts and the conclusion of construction and construction supervision contracts for lots already approved for financing under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth 2014 " 2020 " remained a free financial resource. This was possible as indicative values for the implementation of the project were higher than the actual values of the contracts concluded with the selected contractors. In this way, part of the financing of Lot 27 and Lot 28 is provided by the Operational Programme, and the rest of the funds needed is secured by the budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency. For the sections, grant contracts have been signed on 18 February this year: - Lot 27 - the value of the contract is 11 million. 691 thousand. 391 BGN, grants 6 million 399 thousand. BGN 415, and the beneficiary's own contribution to 5 million 291 thousand. BGN 976. - Lot 28 times ΙΙ-62 Klisura "Samokov," value of the contract 16 million. 295 thousand. BGN 816 of which grants 12 million $865,000. £865. and the beneficiary's own contribution of 3 million. 429 thousand. £951. The duration of grant contracts shall be 24 months after their signature. At the end of 2017 public contracts for construction and construction supervision were announced under the Public Procurement Act with a position of 1 Lot 27, road ΙΙ-62 Dupnitsa Clisura with a total length of 16,808 km and a separate position of 2 Lot 28 road ΙΙ-62 Clisura with a total length of 15,711 km. The tender procedure for selecting a contractor for the construction works is over. For Lot 27, proceedings were initiated in the Commission for Protection of Competition on a lodged complaint. We are waiting for the Commission's decision. Lot 28 is about to sign a contract with the selected contractor. The price proposals of the participants in the procedure for selecting a contractor for construction supervision for the two lotts are open. Upon completion of the work of the Commission, the participants shall be ranked and appointed as a consultant for the consulting service. The provided construction works will start within one month after signing the contracts for construction and supervision. The time limits for the implementation of the planned activities for the two sites shall be 15 months from the date of the opening of a construction site. By implementing the repair works along the route ΙΙ-62 will significantly improve the infrastructure that makes access to the town of Samokov, the resort complex of Borovets, which, in turn, will ensure the development of tourism and business in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u122	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Mr. Milushev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u123	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response. I am glad that in the government and in your person we find support for the municipality of Samokov and the region, as the municipality is entirely dependent on good road infrastructure. I just want to point out that I hope this continues. The road that was made Samokov is entirely renovated. Now and the next time that will be made, Dupnitsa Samokov will help ensure the smooth, safe and safe prediction of the people of the region. You mentioned Borovets, Malyovitsa, Belchin Baths, it's extremely important.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u124	Thank you, dear Mr. Milushev. Will you have the back? Dear Mrs Avramova, the questions for you are over. Allow me, on my behalf, as the leader of today's parliamentary control, to thank you for being able to adhere strictly to our regulation and, at the same time, to be as precise and comprehensive as possible. Happy holidays! We move on to questions to Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy. The first question will be from the MP Claudia Grigorova on the effect of measures relating to the protection of employees against the non-payment of wages and benefits by employers. Here you go, Mrs. Grigorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, colleagues! At the beginning of 2018, the National Assembly adopted a package of measures in various laws aimed at better protection of employees' labour rights, in particular limiting cases of delays or non-payment of wages and benefits. One of the changes introduced a new power of the General Labour Inspection, which received the right from 31 March 2018 to initiate insolvency proceedings for employers who delayed the payment of remuneration to at least one third of their employees for more than two months. Would you present data on the effect of this measure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u126	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grigorova. Dear Mr. Petkov, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u127	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Gancheva, at the end of 2017, the National Assembly adopted a package of legislative changes aimed at ensuring to a higher extent the rights of employees to receive the wages and benefits due by employers. With amendments to the Commercial Law, a legal opportunity was created for the General Labour Inspection, the Executive Agency of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to initiate the opening of insolvency proceedings for employers who have delayed the payment of remuneration to at least one third of their employees for more than two months. The measure entered into force on 31 March 2018. It was established to grant the right to employees who were not paid the wages and benefits due to them to contact the Fund for the guaranteed claims of employees in the event of the employer's insolvency when their employers did not pay their salaries and did not contact the court for opening insolvency proceedings. This change in legislation has largely been disciplining since, following an inspection of around 70 undertakings, they have chosen to repay the obligations to their staff over the possibility that the Labour Inspectorate may request the court to open insolvency proceedings for them. As a result, the amount of late wages established in 2018 by the Labour Inspection is lower compared to 2017, and the amount paid after the intervention of the control bodies is higher. In 2018, 27 million 300,000 delayed remunerations were established. After the intervention of the Labour Inspection, 19 million were paid. Three hundred thousand. lv. including previous years' obligations. In comparison, in 2017, the amount of late payments found was 28 million. 400,000. BGN 18 million paid, 18 million paid, respectively. 900,000. lv. They also reduce the cases where a delay in the payment of remuneration for all or most of the staff is found. For the entire period of the entry into force of these legal changes, from 31 March to the present year, the Labour Inspectorate has filed claims for insolvency proceedings for a total of 51 companies. The total number of workers and employees concerned in these enterprises is 1905. With first instance decisions are a total of 32 of the legal proceedings initiated, with 20 companies declared bankrupt and 7 insolvency proceedings opened. Three applications have been rejected because employers have fully paid the late wages. A procedure has been terminated at the request of the Labour Inspection after it has been certified that all the wages due have been paid. One of the proceedings has been suspended since a claim has already been lodged by a creditor. The Labour Inspectorate exercises its effective new power from the data. As a result of its intervention, the employees in the enterprises for which there are judicial decisions on applications for insolvency proceedings have the opportunity to turn for the payment of their guaranteed claims to the Fund for the guaranteed claims of the employees in the event of the employer's insolvency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u128	Thank you, dear Mr. Petkov. Dear Mrs. Grigorova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u129	Thank you for your comprehensive answer, Mr. Minister. It is obvious that the measure works for the benefit of the Bulgarian citizens, for the benefit of the public interest. More employers and more disciplined pay more delayed salaries, more employees receive their due money. The main labour inspectorate is quite energetic in carrying out its duties under this measure, although it has only 350 inspectors. The labour inspectorate was doing well with its new power, but the change package also contained measures aimed at extending the circle of entitled persons to address the Fund for Guarantees of Employers and Employees in the event of the employer's bankruptcy to receive compensation for outstanding obligations from their employer. Minister, do you have any information: has the target been achieved, has the number of persons receiving benefits increased? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u130	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grigorova. Dear Minister, please come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u131	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Gancheva, thank you for the supplementary question, because the effect of the changes introduced in the legislation of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, apart from the disciplinary effect we are talking about in the answer to the question, has this effect that enables the relevant workers and employees whose businesses are declared in bankruptcy proceedings to receive their outstanding remuneration from the Fund for guaranteeing employees' claims in the event of insolvency. The right of guaranteed employment of employees shall arise from the date of entry into the commercial register of the judgment initiating insolvency proceedings. In this regard, the requested reference by the National Insurance Institute, which performs the administrative service of the Fund for the guaranteed claims for a three-year period back, clearly shows the effect of the legislative measures taken. I will serve specifically with the numbers provided by the NSI. In 20016 an application to the Fund submitted 508 persons with the total amount paid for the year amounted to 1 million. 702,000. BGN 711. In 2017, the persons who addressed the Fund totalled 480 and the amount paid was 716 thousand. £940. In 2018, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Last year, when the package of legislative changes aimed at ensuring a higher level of workers' rights to receive wages and benefits due from employers came into force, the total number of persons applying for the guaranteed claims to the Fund was 6083 and the amounts paid by the Fund for the year amounted to 7 million. 383 thousand. BGN 705. The number of persons submitting applications to the Fund has increased more than 10 times, and the amount of the guaranteed claims paid over 7 times, compared to the previous two years, therefore I find that better guaranteeing the rights of workers and employees has been achieved by means of the larger number, which have the right to turn to the Fund and the higher amount of benefits paid by employers and benefits paid by the Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u132	Thank you, dear Mr. Petkov. The next question to you is from the National Representative Dimitar Gechev on a campaign for application under the project "Beautiful Bulgaria" 2019. Here you are, dear Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u133	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Minister, The project is part of the Ministry's programme for reducing unemployment and stimulating employment in the country. The foundation of the concept of the project "Beautiful Bulgaria" is a small pilot project called "Beautiful Sofia" which started in 1997 through joint financing of Sofia Municipality and the United Nations Development Programme. Since 2006, funding has been made entirely from the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy announced the end of the campaign for the recruitment of projects to be financed in 2019 under the Project "Beautiful Bulgaria." 38 projects were reportedly approved, 36 municipalities and two regional administrations. In relation to the following, my question is: what was the interest in applying this year and how were the 38 projects selected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u134	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u135	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gechev, on January 18th this year the campaign of Project "Beautiful Bulgaria" for the collection of project proposals for 2019 under the following three measures: Measure M01 "to improve the public environment in the settlements," Measure M02 "Improving the social infrastructures," Measure M02-01 "Improving the social services of a resident type." 98 project proposals were submitted by 79 candidates, including 73 municipalities, two district administrations and 4 so-called countries. The total value of the 98 project proposals amounts to 18 million. 700,000, of which 8 million. 200 thousand financed by the project "Beautiful Bulgaria" and the remaining 10 million. Five hundred thousand are funded by the candidates. These data show the traditionally great interest of municipalities, regional administrations and other potential beneficiaries in participation in the project "Beautiful Bulgaria". Under the Project rules, the annual budget shall be allocated by a decision of the Governing Council, which shall be consistent with the number of project proposals received under each of the measures and their total value. This year, the project "Beautiful Bulgaria" submitted 41 sites under the first measure, which is 42% of the total number, worth 7 million. 564 thousand. BGN 591.; 51 sites were proposed under Measure M02, which is 52% of the total number of all submitted project proposals worth 9 million. Seven hundred and £650.; and applied for six sites under Measure M02-01, which is 6% of the total. The value of these six projects is 1 million. 302 thousand. 052 BGN, which is 7% of the total value. In this regard, the Project Management Board decided the annual budget of 3 million. Three hundred thousand. BGN, which is part of the National Employment Action Plan for 2019 to be allocated according to the three measures, following the proportional ratio of the interest claimed, i.e. 41,5% of it are for the first measure; 52% 716 thousand for the second measure; and 6.5% of the total budget or 214 thousand. 500 leva. as an absolute value for Measure M02-01. In view of the limited budget funds of the Project "Beautiful Bulgaria" the use of project proposals every year is carried out on a competitive basis. The project proposals received in 2019 were initially examined for eligibility, after which only those admitted were assessed and ranked. According to the rules of Krasiva Bulgaria the eligibility conditions are as follows: the candidate is eligible; the site is eligible; the site is not financed over the last five years under other projects and programmes; the total value of the budget is within between 60 thousand and 400 thousand; the decision of the municipal council to indicate the exact value or the exact rate of funding of the site; in the letter of the Council of Ministers for support is indicated an accurate value or an exact rate of funding. This is a condition for district administrations and district managers; for the site to have or approved an investment project with a permission, construction or project for filming, such as for each project proposal under measures M02 and M02-01, which concerns a social service establishment, to provide current letters for support from the plants of the Agency for social assistance and the State Agency for Child Protection, respectively for social services for children. As a result of compliance with these conditions from all 98 project proposals, 90 are admitted to evaluation and the following four criteria are assessed: the first is the completeness and correctness of the documentation in the draft proposal; the second is the completeness of the investment project or the project for filming; the third is the average unemployment rate in the municipality in the period, and the fourth criterion is the proposed higher co-financing by the applicant. The assessment was carried out on each of the four criteria. The overall assessment of the project proposals is a sum of their assessments according to the individual criteria. Following the assessment of the 90 project proposals admitted, the same shall be classified under each of the measures on the basis of the general assessments, with the Governing Council approving only the first of them to be financed by the available budgetary resources. As you pointed out, for 2019 the project's Management Board approved 38 project proposals for financing and realization, of which 16 are under the first measure, i.e. for improving the public environment, 20 are under the second measure for improving the social infrastructure and two projects for improving the social services of a resident type. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u136	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mr. Gechev, do you have a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, from your reply we understand that the interest in financing the project "Beautiful Bulgaria" is great. I wish that the budget for this programme will grow from now on. If I may, as an additional question, ask you: could you explain to me more clearly the highlights of this year's campaign under the Project "Beautiful Bulgaria"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u138	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. Dear Minister, please come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u139	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gechev, from the analysis of the data and the interest in participation in the project "Beautiful Bulgaria" this year I would draw two accents. The first is related to the distribution of project proposals in different areas. Of course, it is largely predetermined by the measures that are declared funding, but let me say that the largest number of project proposals are for educational sites. 34 of the total number, i.e. more than one third of the project proposals are in the field of education. It is about renovations, renovations, repairs of schools, kindergartens, nursery and other educational institutions. Traditionally great is the interest of municipalities for project proposals in the field of culture, Chitalishtes, respectively cultural homes, theatres, libraries, as well as public administrative services sites, healthcare sites. For this year they have applied with project proposed municipalities, which are respectively for activities for five hospitals, two polyclinics, four health centers. Of course, the number of project proposals and social services sites is relatively high. The other emphasis I would make is related to the amount of amounts applied for for funding from the project, because if the proposed value of the construction or repair works is more than 215 thousand, the applicant should provide training to unemployed persons registered in the labour offices. This is also the point that this project should be within the framework of the National Employment Action Plan, because for these project proposals, project contractors have an obligation to finance training for unemployed persons to acquire skills, and in this case I would consider it a positive fact that in 22 of the submitted project proposals, the value exceeds 215 thousand, which basically means that the candidates have provided for training for unemployed people. After all, the approved 38 project proposals provide professional training for unemployed people in 13 of them. So as a result, we expect that, within the framework of the implementation of approved project proposals, a minimum of 150 unemployed persons will be trained this year, which undoubtedly increases their chance of successful realization of the labour market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u140	Thank you, dear Mr. Petkov. There are no more questions for you, so happy holidays to you too. We move on to the questions to Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva, Minister of Justice. The first question to it is from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova on the development of the potential of the human resources of the judiciary by building an effective model for the acquisition of legal capacity. Here you are, dear Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The amendments to the Law on the Judiciary of 2016 approved new rules for internship and examination after completion of higher education in the specialty of Law. The six-month internship shall be divided into two stages: the main in two months, and the professional in four months, which may be held in the judicial system in the case of a lawyer, notary, private judicial contractor and others according to art. 297, para. 2, p. 2 of the Law on the Judiciary. The examination for the acquisition of legal capacity has not been changed in the last 15 years, with the latest amendments to the Law on the Judicial Authority to take place in the form of a case and a practical test. In this respect, it is necessary to carry out a study and exchange of good practices with Member States of the European Union, for conducting internship programmes and for an examination after graduation of the specialty of Law. In order to develop the potential of the human resources of the judiciary by building an effective model for acquiring legal capacity is also my question to you: at what stage of the implementation is the Ministry of Justice with regard to the Project Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u142	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u143	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Alexandrova, honourable Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen! According to the legal framework in force, graduates of the University of Law and their higher education acquire legal capacity after a six-month internship as interns and pass the theoretical practical examination organized by the Ministry of Justice. The practice over the past ten years has shown that this exam is not characterized by a particular severity and those who at the first appearance cannot endure it can not pass it are about 0,1%. There was a real need to reorganise the practical internship after graduation so that future lawyers could acquire real training, as well as to ensure an effective connection between the internship that takes place during the course of studies, the internship after the completion of the higher education, the passing of the state examinations and the connection with the theoretical practical examination. It is true that more than 15 years have not changed the conditions for conducting this theoretical-practical examination, which in itself led to changes in the Law on the Judiciary and the implementation of a project on which to carry out a reform of the judiciary and in relation to this examination. The Ministry of Justice has completed its work under the Project "Development of the potential of the human resources of the judiciary by building an effective model for the acquisition of property under the Programme of Innovation and Competitiveness, funded by the European Social Fund. The main goal of the project was the transformation of models of an internship program and an exam for the acquisition of legal capacity after the completion of the training in the specialty of Law and Law in the practical preparation for work in a real environment in which this profession is applied. By their specifics, the objectives could be outlined in two directions: the conversion of post-graduate internships into a specialty of law in a real form of practical training, as well as the transformation of the theoretical-practical exam for obtaining legal competence in checking the acquired knowledge and skills in a real environment to give the relevant knowledge and skills by the graduates of lawyers. Last but not least, the real implementation of the practical internship after graduation should also contribute to the timely orientation for future work as lawyers, as well as to the motivation for realization in the judiciary. In fulfillment of the objectives of the project has already been published in the Official Journal of the European Union, No. 13 of 12 February this year, Ordinance No 1 on the acquisition of a legal capacity, which provides that from 2020, the examination for the acquisition of a legal capacity shall be fully written and shall take place in two parts. The first is the solution of a test, and the passed test will have the opportunity to make their views known in writing on a specific case and answer to questions arising from this case. The test and the case will be drawn up on the basis of a thematic perspective established by the order of the Minister of Justice. The test will consist of 30 questions, for each one of which three or four answers are proposed, and only one of them is the correct one. The questions for each exam shall be determined by an examination committee. Here too, in order to strengthen the degree of precision in the evaluation, the examination committees will no longer be three-members, as they were until now, but five-members. The exam will take place twice a year in April and October, which is in line with the time of state examinations in the legal faculties of accredited VUMs. The possibility of holding the exam outside the two sessions is envisaged when the applications for it are more than 200 people. The Regulation also provides for the establishment of a Register of Lawable Lawyers. It will be supported by the Ministry of Justice and access to it will be free and free. It should be ready in 2022 and after another year all who acquired legal capacity after 1990 should be registered in it. The Register will mention three names of the lawyer, the date on which he passed his exam, and if he has lost his certificate on whether he has been granted a copy of something which, unfortunately, is a frequent practice and very often I sign duplicates when a fellow lawyer appears in various contests, participates in them and must present a document that he has passed a theoretical-practical exam. But there is also such statistics at the moment, so duplicates are issued where necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u144	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsacheva. Right to the line Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my right to a reply, I would like to thank Minister Tsacheva for the comprehensive response and the way the Ministry of Justice works. I believe that my thoughts are also confirmed that this will ensure a serious selection of candidates through an adequate examination of their skills and knowledge of practical implementation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u146	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Will you have the back?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u147	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u148	Ten-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u149	Dear Members of Parliament, we are continuing with today's parliamentary control. The next question is from the MP Iglika Sabeva. It is about the actions of the Ministry of Justice in terms of prevention of domestic violence. Here you are, Mrs. Sabeva, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u150	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, ladies ministers! Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, according to unofficial data, every fourth woman in the country is a victim of domestic violence. There are cases where men are victims of domestic violence. Violence is not limited by incidents, but is behavior ranging from verbal harassment and abuse, threats, unwanted sexual advances reaching physical assault and murder. Domestic violence poses a serious threat to fundamental human rights recognised by the Law and guaranteed by the latter. On this occasion and in order to safeguard fundamental human rights on 24 October 2018, we submitted a Bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code. The law was adopted on 7 February 2019 by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria and promulgated in the Official Journal. 16 of 22 February 2019 The amendments are in force at the moment. Changes shall ensure proportionate and comprehensive criminal protection against any acts of domestic violence, both over women and over men. All forms of violence have been criminalized because of the fact that they affect the most significant public relations, extremely valuable rights, such as the life and health of the individual. We've completed the qualifying compositions of murder and bodily damage. Incriminating acts by which psychological violence is systematically exercised against another person who has suffered harmful consequences for the victim. Prior to the adoption of these changes, the necessary criminal law closed down from psychological violence. Because of this, the legislation in force was not in line with European and global standards in this regard. Despite the efforts of the legislator, investigation and detection of various manifestations and forms of violence is extremely difficult. The reason for this is the fact that domestic violence by nature manifests itself between legal entities that are close and the acts of domestic violence have no witnesses. The victim for reasons of different nature does not share what happened and does not refer to the competent authorities. This determines the extremely complicated nature of such situations. We all remember that a woman was killed a few days ago under domestic violence. This requires the efforts of all of us in this direction to continue. In relation to all this, it is also my question to you about the actions of the Ministry of Justice in relation to the prevention of domestic violence, namely: what initiatives does the Ministry of Justice undertake with regard to the protection of victims of domestic violence and the implementation of the National Programme for Prevention and Protection against Domestic Violence?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Sabeva. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u152	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Sabeva, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Undoubtedly, the issue of domestic violence is one of the main ones, which is on the attention of both the legislative programme of the Bulgarian Parliament and the Ministry of Justice, with which the already adopted texts for amendments to the Penal Code have been prepared. When it comes to prevention, it seems as if the Ministry of Justice is at the finish, then, which the act has already been carried out, when the higher sanctions introduced in the Penal Code should be retributed, to give justice and justly to condemn the abuser, which actually, usually happens in the family environment between members of a family or close relatives, is very difficult to prove, as is known to all practicing magistrates. At the same time, however, the work of society as a whole is extremely responsible. Complex actions and initiatives are needed in order not to lead to an act of violence, which should be pursued accordingly under the Penal Code. This is under art. 6, para. 7 of the Law on Protection against Domestic Violence annually under the budget of the Ministry of Justice shall be determined funds for financing projects of non-profit legal entities implementing activities under this Act for the development and implementation of programmes for prevention and protection against domestic violence. Chapter 3 of the Rules of Implementation of the Law lays down in detail the procedure for funding programmes and training under the text quoted by me. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Minister of Justice or an official authorised by him shall announce a contest for financing projects, programmes and training under art. 6, para. 7 of the Law on Protection from Domestic Violence annually until 31 March. For 2018, the previous year, the projects of 17 organisations worth 360 thousand were financed. lv. The maximum amount of the funds for the competition procedure foreseen for the current 2019 budget amount to 450 thousand. lv. Here I thank the understanding of both the Finance Ministry and the MPs for the increased amount, which again shows the care for preventive actions and initiatives before the worst happens. On the basis of the National Programme for Prevention and Protection against Domestic Violence for 2019, which the government has adopted by a deliberate decision of 10 January this year, and by order of an authorized authority, the Deputy Minister has already announced a competition for funding programmes and trainings, according to the National Programme for Prevention and Protection from Domestic Violence for 2019. The priority objectives for funding are several: Firstly, ensuring protection, recovery and reintegration of victims of domestic violence through the timely provision of quality services. Mr. Chairman, I won't use the back if I may. I want to give the answer in full or whatever you say?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u153	Shouldn't we give the opportunity to still take a cue and time for the doppelganger?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u154	Okay. Let's take an attitude and I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u155	That was my idea. Sorry to interrupt, but let's really follow the rules. Here you are, Mrs. Sabeva, for a reply that will enable the Minister to complete his reply. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u156	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, I was listening with interest. I wanted to hear your statement to the end, but it has become clear from what has been said so far that the Ministry of Justice is making serious efforts in this regard. I welcome the efforts of the Ministry of Justice. Thank you for your information. I hope, thanks to our joint efforts and the intransigence of society in this regard, with all forms of domestic violence, this problem and its effect being reduced to a minimum, because it is nevertheless a matter of very important, fundamental rights that are concerned in this case and which must be protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u157	Thank you. Madam Minister, please complete the answer. We'll hear it through. We will not limit time because the subject is really important and up-to-date.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u158	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Sabeva, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The priority funding targets are in several groups. They're in three groups. First of all, I started in my reply and stated that this was providing protection, recovery and reintegration of victims of domestic violence through the timely provision of quality services. Secondly, provision of services for dealing with perpetrators of domestic violence with a view to preventing recurrences from domestic violence. The third round of the project is an improvement of policies for prevention and protection against domestic violence by carrying out monitoring and analysis on the implementation of the Law on Protection against Domestic Violence. This is for the period 2015. "Administration of the European Union' (EUSR) I would like to inform you that in three groups, in view of the objectives, the activities to be financed are defined. All information can be found on the website of the Ministry of Justice. The time limits for submission of documents by candidates, NGOs to present their projects shall be up to 27 March inclusive. In connection with the implementation of the commitments of the Ministry of Justice under the National Programme for Prevention and Protection against Domestic Violence on 15 February this year, we signed a contract with the Animus Association "Our long-standing partner in this area" for new funding of a national telephone line for victims of domestic violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u159	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question to the Minister of Justice is from the National Representative Maria Ilieva. It is on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. Mrs. Ilieva, you're welcome to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u160	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! The Republic of Bulgaria has ratified the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Council of Europe as early as 1992 and, under this ratification, recognised the jurisdiction of the European Court of Human Rights. In accordance with art. 46 of the Convention, the Parties shall have an obligation to comply with the final decisions of the Court establishing infringements of the Convention. Taking the necessary implementing measures shall be controlled by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. States Parties shall have a contractual obligation to remedy the infringements identified by having a certain discretion as regards the means to do so. From the analysis of the facts reported by the ministers of justice, according to the requirements of the decisions of the National Assembly of 21 September 2012, there is a tendency to reduce the number of complaints submitted and the decisions given against Bulgaria. As we have said, in accordance with the requirements of the Convention, Bulgaria is obliged to implement the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, but also to take measures that have a preventive character so that in the future it is not sufficient for such violations. In this regard, Madam Minister, my question to you is: what are the trends in the implementation of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and the complaints against Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. Here you are, Madam Minister, for the answer to the question asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u162	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ilieva, at the beginning of each calendar year, the President of the European Court of Human Rights shall present the statistics for the previous year, as well as information on the main trends and challenges in the work of the Court of Justice under the European Convention on Human Rights. The Court of Justice's statistics are an important instrument because it gives us an orientation and can draw conclusions and conclusions about the main problems in the national legal order of the Member States. The 2018 data were presented at a press conference held on 25 January this year in Strasbourg. First of all, it should be noted that our country is continuing a lasting and sustainable trend in reducing the number of complaints before the European Court of Human Rights. Bulgaria is permanently outside the 10 countries with the most complaints to this court. In previous periods, we've been in this ten. For this year we are going down two more places, that is, we are moving away from the top ten cases in Strasbourg. One of the main reasons for this indisputable progress is the efforts made in recent implementation years by the European Court of Justice, the introduction of effective legal remedies at national level and, in particular, the successful implementation of three pilot decisions, which have introduced effective means of compensation for victims of excessive civil and criminal proceedings, as well as poor conditions in places of imprisonment under the Law on the execution of penalties and detention. Positive trends in the practice of the European Court of Human Rights against Bulgaria for 2018 as well as in the previous reporting year 2017, there are no serious violations of art. Art. 2 and Art. 2 3 of the Convention due to ineffective investigation of personal abuse. These are the main texts on which an infringement is found following a judgment. More specific. More specific cases are provided to the National Assembly in the annual report presented by the Minister of Justice annually for adoption by the Bulgarian Parliament. I would like to inform you that in mid-January 15 January 2019, the Ministry was a mission of the Anti-Torture Committee to the Council of the European Union, and once again we have debated the conditions for suffering the penalty of imprisonment, as well as the conditions in detention, and this time the emphasis has also been on the healthcare for those who are in these institutions. A question was also raised about the number of persons suffering a life imprisonment without the right to exchange. I have rightly shared with the members of the Committee on the results achieved so far, they are indisputably recognized by our partners that the issue of overcrowding in prisons has already been resolved. Everywhere and now I was visiting Lovech Prison yesterday, those who suffer punishment are less than the capacity of the institution concerned. We've got arrest issues. First of all, with the two Sofia arrests, the result of the changes made to the PPC and the investigation into cases of organised high-level criminal groups are concentrated here in the specialized court and prosecutor's office, from which it is clear that the detainees are in the territory of Sofia arrests. There is another, such as Slivenska for example, and like Gabrovo, which are very old, they are in other times built and under other conditions, but in the annual program of the Ministry are staged reconstructions for being really able to provide conditions to meet European criteria. But this was also the subject of my answers here, before you, in the Bulgarian Parliament. So, in due course, in the interests of the Members of the National Assembly, I am ready to give more information in this direction as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u163	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Ilieva, do you have a line? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u164	Dear Minister, thank you for this comprehensive answer. Thank you also for bringing up the theme of conditions in prison and arrests. It is really good that the issue of filling the capacity of the prisons has already been resolved, because we know that not a small part of the cases against Bulgaria were with such an object. It is obvious that you continue to make efforts to resolve this issue and in terms of arrests. You also mentioned the highlights of the European Anti-Torture Committee meeting and it is good that it is actually appreciated by our European partners the efforts we are making in this direction. It is obvious that targeted and consistent action is needed both by the government and by the other institutions involved in this process and ensuring its effectiveness. I really hope that, with the support of our European partners and with the exchange of practices in this direction, we will indeed succeed in achieving results and also be effective in solving the issue of conditions and arrests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. Madam Secretary? I understand there's not gonna be a duvet. Thank you. That concludes your participation in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the questions to the Minister of Tourism Mrs. Nikolina Angelkova. The first one is from the National Representative Asya Peeva and he refers to the steps to promote domestic tourism. Here you go, Mrs. Peeva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the practice of tourist marketing requires an approach focused on advertising the respective destination on external markets. This is the accepted logical and working method all over the world in order to maximise the attraction of foreign tourists to contribute to the local economy with every cost they incur on the territory of the country. The fact is that the funds that these visitors leave in Bulgaria are entering the trade turnover as quickly as possible, helping to secure employment and increase the revenues in the treasury. In this regard, I understand and appreciate your efforts to successfully impose a positive image of the country through constant marketing campaigns on foreign markets, which you regularly inform us, the MPs. My question relates to another segment of supply, which I believe has the necessary potential to be developed and which requires targeted attention. It is about the Bulgarian tourist as a potential customer of the home tourism industry. What is being done to draw his attention to the opportunity to spend his holiday in Bulgaria? You have recently announced the launch of a specific initiative to focus on domestic tourism within this year. In this regard, my question to you is: what steps will the campaign to promote domestic tourism take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Peeva. Madam Minister, we're looking forward to the answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u168	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Peeva, the promotion of domestic tourism is among the main priorities of the Ministry of Tourism and according to the data of the National Statistical Institute for 2018 was registered an increase in the number of Bulgarian citizens who stayed in accommodations in the country from 2.2% on an annual basis or more than 9 million realized nights. The positive thing is that the growth in revenues from the overnights is 7.8% or over 370 million in total. lv. These figures say that the direction is correct, but they are ambitious for focused acceleration in the direction of maximum promotion of the opportunities for quality, interesting and diverse holiday in the homeland. That is why, with the campaign launched by the Ministry of Tourism for 2019, as a year for promoting domestic tourism, we provide measures to promote domestic travel in different regions, in the context of the objectives of promoting insufficiently familiar places, sites, events, destinations across the country. We'll pay attention to the smaller municipalities. Therefore, we prepare a specialized calendar of events outside the annual program for national tourist advertising, which have already successfully branded their centers and have become a familiar brand for attractive high-quality products. We have provided for the organisation of discussions on regions, and in this initiative the best partner of the state will be mayors in places that already share and demonstrate achievements and good practices in attracting tourists. I am convinced that together with municipalities and businesses we will enable a large part of the Bulgarians to rediscover their country as a tourist destination with wonderful quality and preserved authentic spirit and traditions. We must make even more united efforts to work together with the state, municipalities and tourism industry to promote these opportunities, against the backdrop of extremely strong external competition and market dynamics. The campaign is about to start an unexpected vacation from March to May, with the two editions that have taken place so far taking into account an increase in the interest of indoor accommodations outside the traditional summer and winter months. An important step towards building strong regional marketing is the implementation of the concept of tourist zoning, already operating seven out of nine tourist management organisations that are able to use European financial instruments. All these steps build on the efforts to promote each region with tourist potential, which started with the extraction of cultural and historical tourism as a leading segment of national tourist advertising, the preparation of eight cultural and historical routes, which during the current management term we enriched with wine and balneo- and spa routes, including over a hundred municipalities in the country's territory. The ministry has always sought to stimulate domestic tourism, with one of our first initiatives being the pilot billboard-campaign project, which enables mass advertising of landmark cultural and historical sites from the region in other areas using the municipal billboard network. We will continue to make our best efforts to present all potential opportunities for vacation in Bulgaria to all our fellow citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u169	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here you are, Mrs. Peeva, to take an attitude to the answer. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u170	Thank you. Thank you, Madam Minister, for your comprehensive response. It is a joy to hear that a priority in the Ministry's activities for this calendar year is precisely the development of domestic tourism, because according to the measures identified by the Ministry and the objectives set, it is clear that the aim is to support local business, the development of municipalities, as well as to increase the national economy. Internal tourism is extremely more accessible to Bulgarian citizens, and with regard to adolescents it is educational and educational. I am therefore extremely pleased to hear the initiative presented by you to focus on domestic tourism. I hope that after implementing the measures taken, we will also be able to hear the results and analyses of the activities, the number of services implemented, the number of tourists compared with a previous period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Peeva. Madam Minister, the assessment was such that it didn't cause the backdrop. Thank you for answering the first question. Next, the question of MP Vasil Tsvetkov, which concerns a tourist market in Serbia. Here you are, Mr. Tsvetkov, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u172	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, a top priority for the Ministry of Tourism is the validation of our country as a year-round destination. You have always shared the thesis that in addition to the traditional and target markets for the Bulgarian tourism industry a solid share of the tourist visit to our country realized the citizens of the neighboring Balkan countries. In this context, we need to make the necessary efforts both to promote Bulgaria and to develop sustainable regional partnerships. In this regard, my question is related to what specific activities does the Ministry of Tourism carry out with regard to our western neighbour Serbia to increase the size of the tourist bill to our country on this market?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u173	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetkov. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u174	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsvetkov, the fact is that both Serbia and all our neighbouring countries are important markets for incoming tourism in Bulgaria. The ministry attaches great importance to excellent bilateral relations with Serbia by making targeted efforts to strengthen the trend of increasing visits to tourism by our Western neighbour. In 2018, more than 421,000 tourist visits were made to Serbian citizens in Bulgaria or an increase of 7% on an annual basis, which puts Serbia in eighth place with regard to international tourist markets in Bulgaria. The level of co-operation is extremely high, and in the past 2018, Serbia was a partner of our largest event "Vacation and Spa Expo" and at the international tourist exhibition held in Belgrade a partner with a major focus of attention. The event was held for 41st consecutive year, with exhibitors being over 1100 companies, of which 300 foreign, from 50 countries. During the forum, I also signed a Memorandum of Understanding in the field of tourism with Deputy Prime Minister Rasim Ljajic. The document provides for a partnership in organizing joint specialized events, professional and media tours, participation in international forums, exchange of statistics, advertising analyses and other information on the tourism potential of the two countries, as well as cooperation to attract more investments. It will also strengthen bilateral cooperation under the World Tourism Organisation, the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organisation and the European Union Strategy for the Danube Region. It is important to take into account that the construction of such strategic partnerships is a significant factor in the development of combined packages to attract tourists from distant perspective markets such as China, which regard Europe as an overall destination and insist on making visits in more than one country. In this context, we are making our best efforts and aiming for real implementation in a real perspective for targeting the relevant markets. With regard to the specific market, the Ministry of Tourism has implemented an integrated communication campaign that includes online marketing tools in Facebook and Youtube, as well as billboard and print advertising for our country. During my visit to Belgrade, I also held a working meeting with Mrs. Maria Labovic, Director of the National Tourism Organisation of Serbia, and I can share with you the assurance that our activity in attracting the interest of Serbian tourists, apart from the main winter and summer resorts, is going up in terms of the practice of balneo- and spa holidays in Bulgaria. We also foresee the organization of a joint tourism forum between Bulgaria and Serbia with representatives of the tourism sector and municipalities, so that we can discuss as much as possible the additional activities that each of us can place on the relevant market. The Ministry of Tourism will continue to build efforts to promote and validate Bulgaria as a year-round tourist destination that offers a wide range of quality and specialized products. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u175	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The attitude will take Mr. Tsvetkov. You have the floor, Mr. Tsvetkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u176	Thank you for your reply, Madam Minister, and for what you are trying to make our country an attractive, year-round destination, and for all the efforts of the Ministry in this direction. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u177	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetkov. This was also the second question to the Minister of Tourism Mrs. Angelkova. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We continue with a question, it is the only one, to the Minister of Economy by the National Representative Radostin Tanev. Here you go, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u178	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, on 29 March this year the United Kingdom is expected to leave the European Union. Given the current state of the process, there are two scenarios: controlled by agreement, withdrawal without agreement or so-called firm Brexit. Against the backdrop of the situation created after the last votes in the British Parliament and the reactions from the European Union to me as a MP, citizens and business representatives with a number of questions related to Brexit and future relations with the UK after the withdrawal were addressed. In this regard, I would like to ask you: what measures are envisaged in the action plans of the Republic of Bulgaria to support the Bulgarian business representatives operating in the territory of the UK when the United Kingdom withdraws from the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u179	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. Mr. Secretary, come in. You have the floor to answer the question about the conditions for Bulgarian citizens and businesses after the withdrawal of the UK from the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u180	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Tanev! Let me first say congratulations to all Grandma Marthas! Wishing to be very healthy and happy, to have good luck, and to congratulate everyone who celebrates the name day today! The UK is a strategic, commercial and economic partner of Bulgaria. Respecting the choice made by the UK to withdraw from the European Union, we believe that it is of mutual interest that our partnership in the future be based on common values and rules that ensure a positive and competitive development of bilateral relations. In the field of trade for Bulgaria, it is important that the UK market to the maximum extent remains open and that the smooth exchange of goods and services is guaranteed. Since 2015, trade with Great Britain has steadily exceeded 1 billion. EUR per year with a positive balance for Bulgaria and only in 2016 it is negative. During the period of January "November 2018" there was an increase of 5,1% compared to the eleven months of 2017, exports reported an increase of 6,8% and imports of 2,7%. For the period 2016 In November 2018, leading goods in exports to the UK are medicines, agricultural products, mostly corn and sunflower seeds, copper profiles, furniture, electricity, etc. Leading goods in imports from the UK are medicines, passenger cars and other vehicles, electricity, ethyl alcohol and others. The agreement to withdraw the United Kingdom from the European Union is the best instrument that guarantees the interests of the Union, while reducing uncertainty for citizens, the business of the Member States. A key factor in the success of the negotiations is to preserve the unity of the European Union and, as a Member State, we have full confidence in the negotiating team of the European Commission led by Michel Barnier, who defends the interests of the Union. Bulgaria has also taken timely action to protect national interests according to the development of negotiations on the separation of the United Kingdom from the European Union. On 29 March 2017, the United Kingdom notified its intention to withdraw from the European Union in accordance with art. 50 of the Treaty of the European Union with effect from 30 March 2019. This date will be respected unless the ratified withdrawal agreement sets another date or period and is extended by the European Council. The better scenario is for the UK Withdrawal Agreement to be ratified before 30 March 2019. Then a transitional period will begin, which will be until the end of 2020, in which relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom remain without significant changes and which is expected to negotiate at the level of preferential trade agreements between the European Union and the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union without an agreement is the worst case scenario possible. With it, from the moment of withdrawal, trade relations between the Parties will be carried out under the rules of the World Trade Organisation and therefore the EU import and export regime to the United Kingdom will be as a country outside the European Union, i.e. third countries with which the European Union is not in preferential trade relations. The necessary measures have been taken by the World Trade Organisation in order to prepare for the forthcoming withdrawal with a view to ensuring a smooth transition. In the event that the Withdrawal Agreement is not ratified from the date of withdrawal, there will be complications for the business, trade and economic operators of the European Union, as well as for the United Kingdom relating to imports, exports, customs procedures, formalities, the issue of licences for the exercise of activities. Regardless of what scenario, the UK's withdrawal is expected to cause significant stress for the administration, business and citizens. In order to mitigate the consequences for Bulgaria from the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union by Decision of the Council of Ministers No 49 of 31 January 2018 an Action Plan for the implementation of the UK Withdrawal Agreement and an Action Plan without agreement detailing the measures provided to the relevant competent ministries and departments were adopted. Your question concerns both business and citizens. I will ask you to look at this decision as the Ministry of Economy is primarily responsible for business. It also has an app I will now provide to you, there every ministry, every office, an institution has an obligation and a schedule, respectively and what it should take. As part of these measures in the event of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union without an agreement, the Ministry of Economy creates a section on its web site where it will offer the Bulgarian business all available information on the topic. Apart from that, it is very important that on 25 February the European Commission launched an information campaign in the twenty-four languages used in the Union aimed at preparing business for a non-trade scenario. And another thing that is extremely important is the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises has already held talks with the commercial attachés of the Member States, including those in the United Kingdom, and we are ready with their participation to launch an information campaign aimed at the Bulgarian business with which to point out to them the good practices, as well as the problems, so that really business can cope with this situation. Thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-01.u181	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Indeed, the question, and the answer is extremely vicious and up-to-date, so we have exceeded the time, but we will nevertheless complete the procedure. Here you go. You don't have a relationship or a line. I hope the full answer has satisfied all of us. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I will read to you the replies that have been postponed for various reasons. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned answers by seven days requested the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question with written answer from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Ivanov. Due to the absence of MPs for respectable reasons, the answers to two questions are postponed by the MPs Diana Savateva, and Krasimir Yankov to the Minister of Culture Boel Banov. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev and the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting due to the lack of the country. Due to participation in an international meeting in the parliamentary control meeting, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will not participate. Parliamentary controls were carried out in full volume by programme. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, we are moving towards closing the meeting. The next regular meeting will take place on Wednesday, 6 March 2019 at 9.00. I wish bright holidays to the MPs and to your constituents, with whom you will undoubtedly meet during the holidays. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
