ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-16.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. First, I would like to thank the Regional Historical Museum in Veliko Tarnovo for providing us with today's solemn meeting one of its relics, namely the original bell of the Constitutional Assembly, which is usually displayed in this House. This beautiful and so significant historical item is almost 600 years old and should not be touched with bare hands. Dr. Miglena Petkova "Deputy Director of the Regional Museum of History "Veliko Tarnovo" will give us the possibility that the bell held by the hands of Exarch Antim I will be with us today. Here you go. [[Mrs. Miglena Petkova brings in and puts the bell in front of the President.]] Please report how many MPs are present in the Chamber on duty.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-16.u2	Madam President, 211 MPs are present in this House.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-16.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. 211 Members of the National Assembly are present. I am opening the solemn meeting dedicated to the 140th anniversary of the Constitutional Assembly of the Principality of Bulgaria and the adoption of the Tarnovo Constitution. [[(Ringing. (Applause)]] Dear colleagues, please stand straight for the performance of the anthem of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the European Union. [[Everyone's up. Children's vocal group "Singing bells" performs the a cappella anthems of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the European Union.]] Let's thank the children from the Children's vocal group Singing bells with the head of Vladimir Gabrovo. [[Applause.]] Colleagues, please remain right to welcome the introduction into the hall of the original Tarnovo Constitution. [[At the sound of a guard drum, the Tarnovo Constitution.]] Thank you. Colleagues, please take your seats. Dear Mr. President, honourable Mr. Panov, honourable representatives of the Council of Ministers, honourable representatives of the Constitutional Court, honourable representatives of the judiciary, we, MPs of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, have the unheard luck to sit on the benches where they sat. And it is important to remember at every moment that we are here for them, not for ourselves, we are here to express humility, our gratitude and worship to their work! 140 years ago they came here, chosen with great excitement and under the conditions of unprecedented national upsurge. For them the illiterate voted with beans and kukurus, today we have specialists in election campaigns, media strategists and social networks. 140 years ago Petko Slaveykov sent the janitor to bring from his home a desk on which the MPs to sign the Constitution, today we expect everything to be given to us ready. 140 years ago they turned words into cannons to protect their beliefs, today we take into account our positions, the latest polls. They were the Titans, we are their humble heirs. Let us be proud that there are things that remain unchanged! Every man or woman in this Chamber has fallen into the National Assembly because they have earned the trust of their compatriots. Every man or woman in this room is here because he's a true patriot. Everyone in this House acts, led above all by their own understanding of how best they can protect the interests of their constituents. We certainly make mistakes.. each one of us. We certainly find it difficult to reach an agreement, but if we remember the daily legacy of the builders of modern Bulgaria, if we realize the greatness of their work on a daily basis, it will make us better and more worthy employees of the Bulgarian people. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let us hear the speeches of the representatives of the parliamentary groups of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. I give the floor to Dr. Daniela Daritkova, Chairman of the political party GERB parliamentary group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-16.u4	Madam President, Mr. President, Mr. Panov, ladies and gentlemen ministers, representatives of the Constitutional Court and the judiciary, honourable Members of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen! On 10 February 1879 in this hall 229 representatives of the Bulgarian people laid the foundations of the new Bulgarian statehood. This is not just the beginning of a young country. The convening of the Constitutional Assembly is the culmination of the Bulgarian national revival, which with the energy and blood of the thousands of clergy, preachers and fighters for national liberation outlined and defended the state-owned instinct of the Bulgarian people. The revival began with the memory of the monk Paisius for the Bulgarian medieval rulers, sparked the national identity spark during the revival of the work of the holy brothers Cyril and Methodius and their students, passed through the struggles for church independence, which with their success outlined the outlines of the Bulgarian nation before the world, and ended with the national liberation movement, which with the labor and blood of its members gave birth to the ideal of being equal to the other European peoples. After a 500-year absence, the Bulgarian state returned to the map of Europe and took its worthy place on it. Before entering this sacred hall for the Bulgarian statehood, a significant part of the MPs in the Constitutional Assembly received higher education in Russia and Western Europe, two thirds of which are fluent in French. This fact is a sign that the Bulgarian national liberation is not a gift, but a fruit of a natural process and belongs to a mature European nation with a true spiritual and country elite. On February 10, 1879 in the old capital Veliko Tarnovo there was a Bulgarian national revival and modern Bulgarian statehood, the past of the medieval Bulgarian state and the ideas for the future of a young and millennial nation. This meeting is the focus of the Bulgarian historical story, which continues today. Under the chairmanship of Exarch Antim I, Bulgarian parliamentaryism takes its first steps among the turbulent debates and clashes between liberals and conservatives. In just over two months these debates give the Bulgarian people the Tarnovo Constitution, which ranks among the most modern constitutions in Europe. The assembly is charged with the enthusiasm of the liberals Petko Slaveykov, Petko Karavelov and Stefan Stambolov, but also with the caution of the conservatives Konstantin Stoilov, Todor Ikonomov and Marko Balabanov. The clash of ideas, sharp disputes and even interpersonal attacks between the two parties are a historical fact. In these hot debates, however, each of those first Bulgarian MPs is led by the idea of building free and independent Bulgaria to be ready to face the challenges and disappointments. Hardly any of those 229 MPs had the illusion that the Bulgarian road would be easy! I doubt the atmosphere in this room 140 years ago was as solemn as it is today! For the first Bulgarian parliamentarians, participation in politics was not a success of life and a matter of political career, but debt and effort. In the coming years, the most significant part of them will have to drink the bitter cup of disappointment and feel the cruelty of dynamic political processes, others will become rich through their political participation, and others will despair, who have not achieved the ideal they believed in. All of them together and separately will remain in the memory of the Bulgarian people as the builders of modern Bulgaria. Ladies and gentlemen, today the difficult Bulgarian road, which began 140 years ago in Veliko Tarnovo, continues. Sometimes we have to go back to this room to remember that in time, like those first MPs, one day we will also be perceived as one. In time, no one will remember our vicious disputes, for history will carefully process only the significant results of our work. Whether these results will be assessed as success, or failure, will show time. Whatever his decision is, however, these results will be our joint case, regardless of our party affiliation. Today, in times of confrontation and dynamic political processes, we should not forget that our presence in politics is primarily responsibility and effort. We must remember that despite our differences, together and separately we represent the entire Bulgarian people. Although we are divided and called to defend the positions of our parties and voters, we are obliged to listen to the voice of the opponents and to respect this vote because behind each of us is the choice of thousands of Bulgarian citizens. Responsibility to this choice requires a particular sensitivity to feel the emotion of the nation and transform it into reasonable solutions. The best example of dealing with this responsibility was given to us by the MPs from the Constitutional Assembly 140 years ago because they carried the emotion of the nation within them and transformed it into a European constitution, whose principles are still valid to this day. Happy holiday and live Bulgaria! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-16.u5	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. I give the floor to Mrs. Cornelia Ninova, Chairman of the political party parliamentary group, BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-16.u6	Mr. President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable representatives of the Constitutional Court and the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Your Eminence, dear guests and dear Bulgarians! 140 years ago, awake and enlightened Bulgarians of the people who have been saved by the centuries-old Ottoman yoke of the Founding Assembly adopted the first Bulgarian Constitution. It is based on the draft organic statutes and gives the state order of the Principality of Bulgaria. Our basic law borrows from the experience gained at that time in Europe, but it is nobody's copy. Article 57 of the Constitution proclaims the basic principle of the modern rule of law: "All Bulgarian subjects are equal before the law. The division between the terms in Bulgaria is not And then in art. 61: No one in the Bulgarian kingdom can either buy or sell forehead creatures, every slave free becomes when he steps on Bulgarian territory. But even today, about a century and a half later, we must once again ask: are we all equal before the law? How free are many of our fellow citizens who live underprivileged at the expense of others who embezzle public wealth? We can be proud that the spirit of enlightenment, which gave honor to our enslaved people, has found its continuation through the Constitution. According to art. 78: The primary teaching is free and compulsory for all subjects of the Bulgarian kingdom..................................................................................................... However, many Bulgarian adolescents and girls prematurely interrupt their training without acquiring labor skills and habits. The Tarnovo Constitution establishes, in addition to political and criminal responsibility of politicians. According to art. 155: The National Assembly may hand over the ministers to a court for violation of the Constitution, for betrayal or any harm caused to the kingdom for personal gain. Do we not have reason to ask ourselves today whether we, politicians, or our own, serve the Bulgarian interests?! Do we ever depend on strangers or corporate?! Even when the Tarnovo Constitution was suspended or violated, it was an obstacle to ultimate authoritarianism and uncontrolled power. That is why the democratic individuals and parties, the progressive forces in the Bulgarian society referred to it and defended its democratic spirit. In the Seventh Grand National Assembly with the crucial participation of Bulgarian Socialists was developed and adopted the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. This Constitution was used in the preparation of others subsequently adopted in Eastern European countries. It proved to be compatible with the requirements for our membership in the European Union. This Constitution disproves its critics and outlives their political career; it lays the foundations of the democratic and rule of law; it establishes the principles of separation of state power, political pluralism, separation of religion from state. To what extent these principles are respected today in legislation and management practice, let each judge for himself. To the greatest extent, we are debtors in terms of the country's economic development and guaranteeing the fundamental rights of citizens, starting with the electoral ones and reaching social work, health care, social security. The authority and power of each constitution is determined by its application, by its ability to ensure the proper functioning of power and the realization of the rights imposed therein. The Constitution contains potential through which to a large extent we can solve today's problems of Bulgaria - economic, social, demographic, security. It contains a good base for that. But do we, who should apply and defend it, who take an oath before it, have the ability and the will to justify the trust of Bulgarian citizens?! Many of them today see an improvement in their own life by changing the current Constitution or a new one. Of course, and the current Constitution as any legislation is not perfect, it is also changed, but is this the real solution to the problems and to the open issues today?! This may sound strange to you, but before we think about a new Constitution, we can make a change in the lives of our countrymen, starting to respect the present one. We have strayed from it, let us apply it, and with this call I wish all the strength and will to do so! Return the power of the Constitution through its execution and work so that the laws are of the people and of the people! Happy Thanksgiving! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-16.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. I give the floor to Mr. Yavor Notev on behalf of the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs. Here you go, Mr. Notev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-16.u8	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Mr. President, honourable constitutional judges, honourable Mr. Panov, Eminence, honourable ministers, honourable fellow lawyers, honourable locusts in this Chamber with a place in the government and movement for the rise of the state, distinguished high guests! We celebrate 140 years since the creation of the Tarnovo Constitution an event to which direct attitude and direct contribution none of those present in the Chamber have been such are biological, such are historical laws. It is our privilege to bow our heads and foreheads before the work of our ancestors, to swear by the respect of the Constitution in the performance of our duties, in the performance of our duty of service, and why not in the performance of our civic duty, our duty as citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria?! When I say this, I recall that after the Tarnovo Constitution three more.... there are four more constitutions of our country, the Stojers of government, the main pillar in it. Following the implementation of the laws is a fundamental duty of every citizen. To turn the adoption of the Tarnovo Constitution into such a bright and important holiday for the whole people means one thing: a message to all our fellow citizens to live according to the law, the rule of the Constitution and the law. Observing the Constitution and the Law, I assure you, is the direct and direct path to the prosperity and well-being of our country. As Bulgarian MPs we have our obligations under the Constitution and as people and citizens to listen to the voices that criticize, who seek the weaknesses of the basic law, the weaknesses in the whole legislative and enforcement system. I assure you, dear fellow citizens, compatriots, dear Bulgarians, there is no more true way than following these rules, which in writing recreate the visions and understandings of an entire nation for government and government. In this way, I call on all of us to be judges of our deeds, judges of ourselves, and prosecutors, Mr Prosecutor General, of ourselves, to be steadfast in following the law in the country. Dear Bulgarians, well-convinced and united patriots, happy holiday! Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-16.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Notev! I give the floor to Mr Mustafa Karadayi, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-16.u10	Dear Mr. President, honourable President, ladies and gentlemen Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable Members of the Constitutional Court, honourable representatives of the judiciary, honourable ministers, Your Eminence, honourable citizens and guests of Tarnovo, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Today is 140 years since the adoption of the Tarnovo Constitution. Today's solemn meeting of the Forty-fourth National Assembly is dedicated to this memorable date, undoubtedly one of the brightest dates in the history of modern Bulgaria. The main law of the Principality of Bulgaria, which remained in history as the Tarnovo Constitution, opens a horizon for the restoration and development of Bulgarian statehood on the basis of constitutionalism, parliamentaryism and universal human democratic values. On today, we express, along with our immense respect for those who laid the foundations, our attachment to the fundamental ideas underlying the Tarnovo Constitution: statehood, constitutionalism, parliamentaryism. This is one of the most democratic constitutionals of its time. The Tarnovo Constitution brings such democratic conquests to the European peoples as the rule of law, the separation of authorities, parliamentary control and ministerial responsibility, political pluralism, universal selective law, freedom of thought and speech, the right to association, the privacy of the individual, the protection of property. In the Tarnovo Constitution there are also other democratic principles characteristic of European political systems, such as the protection of civil liberties, political rights for all Bulgarian citizens at the time, freedom of personality, equality before laws, freedom of the press and others. The Tarnovo Constitution was a fundamental law of Bulgaria from 1879 to 1947, twice "on 15 May 1893 and on 11 July 1911, it was amended and twice suspended: during the Powers regime from 1 July 1881 to 6 September 1883 and during the Nineteenth-Omian regime 1934. Over the years the Tarnovo Constitution has always supported democratic aspirations in Bulgarian social and political life, although during certain periods it has been violated and suspended. It is no coincidence that by the drafting of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria after the fall of totalitarian power the MPs of the Grand National Assembly 1990 and 1991 stepped on the values of the Tarnovo Constitution. The Seventh Grand National Assembly on 12 July 1991 voted the new Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, which states that Bulgaria is a republic with parliamentary governance and is a democratic, social and legal state. In many ways, although in quite different political realities, our existing Constitution since 1991 reaffirms a number of principles of the Tarnovo Constitution 140 years ago, such as the principle of separation of authorities, guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of citizens, the right to a decent life of every person, the privacy of private property, the freedom of personality, equality before the law, political pluralism and many, many others. The classic constitutional principles thus proclaimed by the Tarnovo Constitution become the basis of modern contemporary Bulgarian constitutionalism. With the basis of the Tarnovo Constitution, a well-deserved place is placed among the most democratic for its time European constitutions. It is a clear confirmation of the will for democratic development, of respect for law and justice, of the rule of law in which the rights and freedoms of all Bulgarian citizens can be protected in full. The MPs of the Constitutional Assembly left to future generations of parliamentarians a lesson to be remembered. In the course of heated and turbulent debates, they showed that they could put national interests and democratic ideas above their party biases. That this lesson is known and remembered is best seen at a time when regardless of political differences, national priorities are those that determine direction. Such examples of political and parliamentary consensus in our recent history are the successful realization of our priorities and our membership in NATO and in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, against the backdrop of the past 140 years, the great work of those who adopted the Tarnovo Constitution and confirmed constitutionalism and parliamentaryism has become a support to the Bulgarian statehood in our recent history. Our future is about validating these values. Let this worthy example inspire us in today's efforts to build democratic Bulgaria and for a worthy place in the European family, part of the Euro-Atlantic community, a worthy example of the unifying processes and denial of division and hatred! Ladies and gentlemen, let us remember that, of all of us, statesmen and politicians, from the whole society together, it depends on whether we carry through this complicated time in which we live, the creative and constructive, or become hostages to the destructive and conflict, to show whether we are good at reading historical examples, and whether we reflect and understand the lessons learned from history. First of all, this means loyalty to the covenant of a pure and holy republic in which all live in peace, regardless of race, nationality, ethnicity, gender, origin, religion, education, belief, political affiliation, personal and social status or property status. Next, the correct reading by the founders means that we need to work for a healthy, strong and well-equipped country; a country that is at the service of its citizens; a country that protects the citizen, protects his dignity, property and life; a country that is strong, with clear working rules and opportunities for development and decent business. In order to achieve this, I will refer to the apostle's words, who best said: "Everything depends on our mutual efforts! " Ladies and gentlemen, today is a celebration of statehood, parliamentaryism and constitutionalism, today is a celebration of Bulgarian lawyers. Happy birthday to us! Happy Thanksgiving! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-16.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi! I give the floor to Mr. Veselin Mareshki on behalf of the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodolists. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-16.u12	Dear President of the National Assembly, Mr. President of the Republic of Bulgaria [[Applause]] , Your Eminence, honourable representatives of the Constitutional Court, honourable representatives of the judiciary and prosecutors [[crowd cheering, laughing]] Dear representatives of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, honored guests! Impressive are the historical dates and facts that we are remembering today. We are going back almost a century and a half when the construction of free modern Bulgaria began. However, the people behind each historical date or event are the people of our ancestors who sat in the same places, who argued passionately, even reached their fists, defending their ideals, but they all had one common goal for Bulgaria to begin to develop and stand dignifiedly to the other European countries. From slave, backward and dependent territory Bulgaria becomes one of the fastest prosperous countries in Europe. Historians say, "They literally built it out of nowhere for 20 years. Companies from all over the world open offices, progressive Bulgarians complete prestigious European universities and hurry back to help with what they learned about the modernization of their homeland. In extremely short time, the main state institutions are being built, the most important laws and rules are adopted. One of the symbols of the independent state "the national currency" becomes convertible. Politicians argue whether to have francs, but the true Bulgarian patriots prevail and so the Bulgarian lev appears. This is a time of full upsurge and mobilization of public energy, of institutions, parties, of every Bulgarian. Such pages of our history fill us with pride! One of the things that impressed me the most from the historical data of today, in which the Tarnovo Constitution was adopted by the Constitutional Assembly 140 years ago. The official guest of this event was the legendary master Kolyu Ficheto, who in 1872 built this unique building. When he walked in here, in the building, all the MPs were on their feet. I say this to stress how much respect has been given to people who have dedicated their lives to build modern Bulgaria, who have done something real for their people. The great patriots of that time who did not ask what they would take but gave money for the opening of universities, for the construction and maintenance of hospitals, for schools, libraries, temples, for the future of Bulgaria and for future generations. That's why their names are remembered! That's why what they built will stand for centuries! Bulgarian patriots did not act and did not think with the time unit. They have been thinking about generations ahead strategically and we can learn a lot of them because it is not only what we do now, but what we leave behind. I'll say it another way: what we're doing now, we'll leave that behind. What have we built for 30 years, given that in 1989 we did not start out of nowhere like our ancestors did? How do we protect our homeland in the common European family for 12 years since we have been a member of the European Union? What has each of us done and done for our people to sit calmly today in this room? I will leave you to answer these questions, but it will be useful to ask them out loud more often! And I hope there are fewer and fewer politicians who are worried about the answers! When we celebrate dates like today, we cannot fail to compare those dedicated and proud Bulgarians 140 years ago and today's generations, because if we want to call ourselves worthy descendants, we must follow their example, keep the traditions that have left us, the culture, the Bulgarian fighting spirit, but especially patriotism! What's better than appreciating and keeping your root, knowing who you are, who your ancestors are, what they built before you? In the modern world in which attempts are being made to obliterate national identity, to unite roles and turn them into an impersonal mass of people, we have the incredible historical and cultural treasure house to preserve and oppose this trend. Bulgaria is not bequeathed to us to delict it, but to lift it up and give it beautifully and prosperously to our children. They're looking at us. If we're really patriots, there's no danger of raising unborn people. On this memorable day, let us wish our people to be healthy and united, our country to be prosperous and independent, and all of us to work for the power, glory and progress of free Bulgaria, as the patriarch of Bulgarian literature said in those years! Personally, I would like to wish you, honourable representatives of all the types of authorities of today's Bulgaria, let us live and work today so that, first of all, when we look in the mirror, we are not afraid and ashamed of the reflection. Secondly, God willing, let's do such works, useful to the Bulgarian people and our homeland, so that we can dream about 140 years from now someone will have reason to think about us too! Happy holiday and God save Bulgaria! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-16.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Thank you, all speakers. Colleagues, we move on to the item on the agenda adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 30 January 2019 to hold this solemn meeting: ACCEPTANCE OF FOUR-THIRIDES AND FOUR PEOPLE'S COLLECTION TO THE BULGARIAN PEOPLE IN THE WOOD OF THE WTO AND THE FOUR-THIRTH YEARS OF THE EMPLOYMENTAL COLLECTION AND THE ACCEPTANCE OF THE TURN-BOOK CONSTITUTION. The honor to read the address this year falls to the young MPs from each parliamentary group because we believe that the future will be in safer hands when the young people of Bulgaria remember and realize the importance of the great work created by our ancestors here in Veliko Tarnovo 140 years ago. (The address is broadcast on video recording:
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-16.u14	Dear compatriots, honourable citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria! Today in the old capital city at a solemn session the 44th National Assembly pays tribute and recognition to the case of our ancestors, who 140 years ago at the Constitutional Assembly put their signatures under the Tarnovo Constitution. With this act 211 MPs built the foundation for the development and prosperity of the Third Bulgarian State.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-16.u15	Among the fathers, the founders are prominent revivalists, scribes, fighters for freedom and church independence, builders of modern Bulgaria. With their views on the structure of the restored state the so-called Conservatives Konstantin Stoilov, Dimitar Grekov, Todor Ikonomov, Marko Balabanov and the designated liberals Petko Slaveykov, Petko Karavelov, Stefan Stambolov, Dragan Tsankov set the beginning of the political debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-16.u16	Winners of the Revival Spirit, regardless of the differences in the vision for the structure of the state, the MPs are united in their efforts to achieve a holy and desperate goal to build a modern, independent and prosperous Bulgaria. They exercise political will and accept, not as the Berlin Treaty envisions, an organizational statute, but a constitution to make it clear that the Bulgarian Principality is free. The basic law describes the state crest, the state seal and the Bulgarian tricolor as an expression of self-esteem and an effort to build equal with the other state.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-16.u17	We all owe them deep gratitude for voting on a Constitution that meets the interests of the Bulgarian people. It as one of the most democratic constitutions for its time provides conditions for the development and rise of Bulgaria and guarantees fundamental rights and freedoms for citizens: it strongly prohibits the slavery and existence of terms, proclaims freedom of personality, compulsory and free basic education, freedom of speech, press, meetings and associations, inviolable private property and universal suffrage for the 21-year-old voters.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-16.u18	The basic law adopted in Tarnovo regulates the state structure and accepts the traditional division of the authorities of legislative, executive and judicial. His principles and values, his spirit of democracy and equality, are alive today as an integral part of the modern Bulgarian Constitution. The MPs of the Constitutional Assembly with honor and dignity perform their historic mission and lay the foundations of the Bulgarian statehood. By their deeds, they prove to be revivalists, but also statesmen. Thanks to their activities Bulgaria also gets the opportunity to return to the map of Europe as part of the modern, democratic and civilized world.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-16.u19	The Tarnovo Constitution is a fundamental law of the Third Bulgarian Kingdom for more than 68 years. The Tarnovo Constitution at the time of its action is becoming an ideal for the political and constitutional structure of the Bulgarian state. The freedoms of Bulgarian citizens are violated and revoked, but they have not only existed on a book, but also as a spirit among the free-loving Bulgarian citizenship. The political struggles to restore the Constitution mark some of the most critical moments of Bulgarian political life, which led to severe trials for the people and national catastrophes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-16.u20	The abolition of fundamental constitutional principles, as is the case for the separation of authorities, is followed by the establishment of sole regimes of governance. It is no coincidence that the years of national development and ascension are linked to the time when the Constitution acts in full. To our pride and national dignity, the Bulgarian people alone, without any help and of their own free will carry out the Association of the Principality of Bulgaria with Eastern Rumelia and proclaim the Independence of Bulgaria, which for a short time becomes one of the strongest and prosperous countries in the Balkans. Today Bulgaria is a democratic state, an integral part of the European and Euro-Atlantic family.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-16.u21	We, as representatives of the Bulgarian people, are aware of our duty to continue the best traditions bequeathed by the artists of the Tarnovo Constitution. Fathers have left us a solid legacy, which has been built up over the past years, but also wasted, valued, but also neglected. Particularly important is their example of putting the national above party interest in crucial times for the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-16.u22	In these cases, party flags are shrinking, opposition is suppressed at the expense of consent in the name of the public good. Celebrating the 140th anniversary of the Constitutional Assembly and adopting the Tarnovo Constitution is an appropriate occasion to turn to history as a source of ideas, wisdom and lessons. Historical evidence is irrefutable that shows that when politicians feel part of the people, when we have all been united and united by a common national ideal, we have set clear goals and relied on our own forces, we have achieved significant successes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-16.u23	Today we declare that in the difficult and dynamic time in which we live, filled with risks and threats, we will work to justify the people's trust and we will put into force the development of policies and quality laws in the interests of the people and the prosperity of the country! We remember the words of the Chairman of the Constitutional Assembly Exarch Antim One: Thank God, we have completed the case for which we were called... We can say: we have made laws from the People's People..............................................and we have made laws from the People's
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-16.u24	Bow to the historical work of the founders! (Applause)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-16.u25	I thank my colleagues who have done so successfully with the address. Colleagues, I suggest we skip the debate as it has been agreed in advance with all the parliamentary groups and move on to the vote. I put to the vote an address of the Forty-fourth National Assembly to the Bulgarian people on the occasion of the 140th anniversary of the Constitutional Assembly and the adoption of the Tarnovo Constitution. Please raise your hand and count the votes on duty by the Quaestors. Thank you, colleagues. Whoever is against you, raise your hand. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Anyone who's abstentioned, please raise your hand. There is no abstention. They voted 211 Members of the Parliament: for.21, without objection and abstention. [[Applause.]] The address of the Forty-fourth National Assembly to the Bulgarian people on the occasion of the 140th anniversary of the Constitutional Assembly and the adoption of the Tarnovo Constitution was adopted. [[Applause.]] Dear colleagues and guests, the document under which our ancestors put their signatures in this room 140 years ago was one of the most progressive for their time fundamental laws. It is no coincidence that a copy of the Tarnovo Constitution occupies today a worthy place in the Museum of History of Europe in Brussels. His subsequent story was neither easy nor cloudless, as it was not freed from obstacles the path to justice, even in democracies, much more confirmed than the Bulgarian one. It is infinitely important that year after year of this day we return to the creation of our ancestors in this hall on 16 April 1879, because, led by the love of freedom, with the still undeveloped wounds of the April Uprising and with the memory of Levski in the hearts, they showed us an ideal for modern Bulgaria, from which we should never deviate, no matter what the malice of the day is! Dear colleagues, with this the agenda for today's solemn meeting, dedicated to the 140th anniversary of the Founding Assembly of the Principality of Bulgaria and the adoption of the Tarnovo Constitution, is exhausted. Please, let's all stand up and send the original of the Tarnovo Constitution, which has returned to its home today? 140 years after the signing! [[Everyone's up. Under the sound of drum guards exemplifies the Tarnovo Constitution.]] Colleagues, please sit down! Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am closing today's solemn session. [[(Ringing. (Applause)]]
