ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to include the following additional points in the weekly work programme of the National Assembly: Draft Law on the ratification of a Framework Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and Lockheed Martin Global INC on Industrial Cooperation Programme F-16 Block 70 with importer of the Council of Ministers. I propose that it be included as the third item for today's plenary session. And the next proposal: First vote on the Bill supplementing the Military Intelligence Act with importers, the people's representative Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. I propose that it be included as item four for today's plenary session. Please, voting mode. Vote 202 MPs: 133, against 53, abstention 16. The proposals have been accepted. We start with the first point of the work programme for today: (LOA) BU-D-SAB CONSUMER F 16 BLOCK 70 BLOCK 70 AIRCRAFT AND ASSOCIATED SUBPORT), INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENT (LOA) BU-D-AAA. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 15 July 2019. General Popov, you have the floor to present the Defence Committee Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 I propose a procedure for the admission of Mr. Atanas Zapreyanov, Deputy Minister of Defence, Mrs. Emilia Kraleva, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, General Andrey Botsev, Chief of Defence, Major General Tsanko Stoykov, Commander of the Air Force.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u3	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. Vote 186 MPs: 160 against 14, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Please invite the admitted persons to the Chamber. Continue with the presentation of the report, Mr. General.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u4	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Defence on a Draft Law on the ratification of an international treaty BU-D-SAB At a regular meeting held on 17 July 2019, the Defence Committee discussed the Draft Law of the National Assembly on ratification of the above mentioned four international treaties related to the implementation of an updated investment expenditure project. 21 MPs attended the meeting. The meeting was attended by Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister for Defence; Mr. Emil Karanikolov, Minister of Economy; Mrs. Emilia Kraleva, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs; Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance; Mr. Atanasov Zaprianov, Deputy Minister of Defence; General Andrey Botsev, Chief of Defence; Major General Tsanko Stoykov, Commander of the Air Force; and Mr. Ivan Naydenov, Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The meeting was attended by MPs Pavel Shopov and Spas Panchev, who are not members of the Defence Committee. The draft ratification law was presented on behalf of the co-owners of the bill by Mr. Karakachanov. In his speech, Minister Karakachanov briefed the members of the Defence Committee on the consultations and negotiations with the US side on the acquisition of a new type of fighter aircraft F-16V Block 70 from the Republic of Bulgaria in accordance with the decision of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, adopted on 16 January 2019. Minister Karakachanov pointed out that in the course of his work the negotiating team has reached agreement from the US side to reduce the package price of 1.41 billion. $ 1,256 billion. the dollar, having managed to retain the package of capabilities requested in the letter of defence sent on 21 February 2019 with requests within acceptable limits. He briefed the members of the Defence Committee on the actions taken by the State Department of the United States of America, taking into account the financial constraints of the Republic of Bulgaria, to reduce the total price by up to 60 million. US dollars through a request from the US Congress for additional funding under the programme of projects that will be implemented in the interest of the Republic of Bulgaria for training of flight crew, supply of equipment, armaments and/or for the implementation of infrastructure projects in the air base. In this way, the overall effect of the Plan for the acquisition of aircraft will decrease the price to 1.2 billion. The dollar. The State Department's request to be reviewed by the US Congress by the end of this month is pending. Minister Karakachanov summarized that the draft ratification law submitted to the National Assembly covers four international treaties bringing together the delivery of the overall package of aircraft, mission equipment, ground handling funds, armaments, means of training flight and engineering staff to a total value of 1,256 million. 153,000. The dollar. The acquisition of a new multi-purpose fighter such as Block 70 F-16 from the United States will raise the combat capabilities of Bulgarian combat aviation to a new quality and make it interoperable with NATO partners. The proposal meets the interests of the foreign policy and national security of the Republic of Bulgaria both in the region and in the Union format. In the subsequent discussion took the MPs Kolyo Milev, Tasco Ermenkov, Hristo Gadzhev, Vladimir Toshev, Simeon Simeonov, Georgi Andreev, Vasil Antonov, Nikolay Tsonkov, Slavi Netzov, Plamen Manushev, Valentin Radev, Gemma Grozdanova, Konstantin Popov, Jayhan Ibryamov, Spas Panchev and Pavel Shoov. Two positions were outlined in the discussion: the strong support of the F-16 deal with the United States of America and the disagreement with the parameters of the proposed deal. The supporters highlighted the firm operational advantages of F-16, the maximum compliance of the F-16 offer with the Bulgarian requirements, the achievement of full interoperability in the air and on the ground with our allies, the prospects for strategic cooperation and partnership and military-technical cooperation with the United States, the achievement of the best price-benefit ratio, the battle experience of F-16, which has been tested repeatedly in combat operations. It was pointed out that acquiring the F-16 is a prerequisite for our country to be an equal and respected ally. It was stressed that acquiring F-16 is the beginning of a profound technological change in our armed forces and hence a profound change in thinking. With the ratification of the contracts for F-16 by the National Assembly, the Bulgarian Air Force will line up among the leading NATO allies, they will acquire an airplane that is the bearer of new modern solutions typical of the fifth generation aircraft. The operation of such aircraft will enable the Bulgarian servicemen to have access to the latest achievements of world science and technology and will create conditions for a smooth transition to fifth generation aircraft The acquisition of F-16 will indirectly affect our defence industry, Bulgarian science, education system and many other areas. Those who spoke against it argued four groups of arguments: the high price of the transaction, the payment at once, exceeding the cost of defence over 2% of gross domestic product, cutting the package, and hence the ability of the aircraft. Having expressed their conviction that F-16, Block 70 is the best fighter our country can afford today, Minister Karakachanov, Minister Karanikolov Deputy Minister Kraleva, Deputy Minister Velkova, Deputy Minister Zapreyanov, General Botsev, Major General Stoykov gave detailed and reasoned explanations on the arguments against the deal. They pointed out that the defence sector has been underfunded for many years, which is why its needs are high and require serious investment. It was pointed out that the one-time payment of the agreed price was imposed by US legislation and by the fact that we currently have no credit history with the US. It has been confirmed that the amount is within our reach from the point of view of the budget. It was pointed out that with rising prices in arms supplies, if we had to negotiate similar conditions in time, the price would be significantly higher. They expressed absolute disagreement with the thesis that the package and hence the ability of the plane were cut. They highlighted that the plane as a platform has all the abilities we expect it to possess. None of this plane's capability has been severed. The number of certain types of ammunition has been reduced, the number of rockets, the number of air-to-air missiles has been eliminated, the amount of ammunition managed by air-to-air has been eliminated. It was stressed that we should first start solving the priority air patrol task and then move on to solving other types of tasks, i.e. using the full capabilities of the plane. Only then will we have to purchase these ammunition that are currently not included in the package. All speakers assessed the scale of the project to acquire a new type of fighter plane and its importance for the Air Force, the Bulgarian Army and the country. For my part, I thanked the members of the Defence Committee for constructive discussion and putting national interest first. After the debate was concluded, the members of the Defence Committee with 13 votes for the defence, 8 votes against the defence committee, and without votes, abstention took the following opinion: The Defence Commission proposes to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Law on the ratification of an international treaty (LOA) BU-D-SAB "Aircraft F-16 Block 70 and related support (F-16 Block 70 aircraft and associated support), international contract (LOA) BU-D-AAA "Boe supplies" supporting F-16 (Munitions in support of the F-16), international contract (LOA) BU-P-AAD "Sidewinder AIM 9X block II rockets, related materials and services "Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II Missions," as required material and services) and international contract (LOA) BU-P-LAR
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u5	Thank you, my dear General. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. You have the floor, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on the Bill for the ratification of an international contract (LOA) BU-D-SAB "Aircraft F-16 Block 70 and related support (F-16 Block 70 craft and associated support), international contract (LOA) BU-D-AAA At a meeting held on 17 July 2019, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Bill on ratification of an international contract (LOA) BU-D-SAB "F-16 Block 70 aircraft and associated support" (F-16 Block 70 aircraft and associated support), international contract (LOA) BU-D-AAAAD (Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II rockets, related materials and services (Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II Missions, as requested material and services) and international contract (LOA) BU-LAR Multifunctional Information Distribution System (Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II Missions, as required material and services) and international contract (LOA) The meeting was attended by: Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, and Diana Dragneva, Director of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Finance, Lachezar Borisov, Deputy Minister of Economy, Lieutenant General Atanas Zapreyanov, Deputy Minister of Defence, and Emilia Kraleva, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Lieutenant General Atanas Zaprianov. On the basis of Decision No 398 of the Council of Ministers of 10 July 2019, the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister for Defence signed on 11 July 2019 the four contracts for the supply of F-16 Block 70 aircraft with related equipment and equipment. The contracts unite the supply of the total requested package of USD 1 256 153 980 as follows: 1. (LOA) BU-D-SAB 2. (LOA) BU-D-AAA 3. (LOA) BU-P-AAD "Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II rockets related materials and services" (Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II Missiles, Associated material and services) worth USD 20 437 635, with a period of validity of the offer until 4 September 2019. 4. (LOA) BU-P-LAR "Multifunctional Information Distribution System Joint Tactical Radio System (MIDS JTRS) (5) and related support and equipment at USD 4 777 771, with a period of validity of the offer until 5 September 2019. Garant in the implementation of the treaties on the American side is the US government. The proposed ratification contracts are drawn up under US legislation. They have a number of features that do not correspond to the contractual and legal practice established in the military equipment acquisition processes. The most characteristic are: - the quoted prices in the contracts are in US dollars, without taxes or fees included, and reflect a maximum accurate estimate of the funds needed for payment at the time of delivery. However, the US Government undertakes to provide the items at the specified prices in dollars and within the specified availability; - the so-called open clauses are available, which will be specified in the implementation process of the contracts due to the lengthy deadlines for the execution of the contracts; - in exceptional and insurmountable circumstances where the national interest of the United States requires it, the US Government reserves the right to terminate the application of contracts in whole or in part at any time prior to the supply of defence products or the performance of defence services; in turn, the buyer may cancel the execution of the contracts entirely or delete individual points at any time prior to the supply of defence products or the performance of defence services, but he is liable for all costs resulting from the cancellation; - for the US country the contracts will have effect not only after their signature, respectively ratification by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria, but also after the transfer of the funds under them within the period of validity of the tenders. Due to the financial obligations contained in the treaties for the Bulgarian State, they should be ratified by law on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After the presentation and discussion of the bill was held with the following results:........................... 11 MPs........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, the Law on the ratification of an international contract (LOA) BU-D-SAB
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Procedure, one more procedure, I'll give you the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, in relation to the broad public importance of the points under consideration today, the agreements, as well as ZID of the State Budget Act, I propose points 1, 2 and 3 of today's meeting, on the basis of art. 51, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be broadcast directly on BNT and BNR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u9	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Is there an opposite opinion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Alexandrov, I disagree with your proposal and I suggest you accept my thesis that it is better not to look at us shitty and disgraceful.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov. Vote 172 MPs: 152, against 12, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Ninova, you had a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, from the BSP for Bulgaria and we insist on inviting Prime Minister Boyko Borisov to parliament. [[Voices: "Eee!" by GERB.]] Today you will ratify a key, complex treaty from a military technical and financial and economic point of view. The experts will be talking about the military technical expertise. But yesterday the Prime Minister made a scandalous statement-confession. If you didn't hear it, Boyko Borisov said: "I personally insisted on paying immediately. " We want him to come to parliament and say this here, before us, and to answer the question: who authorized him to make such commitments? Maybe that means the American side didn't want payment right away. We have a budget update coming up. The Prime Minister also told a lie yesterday that we will pay immediately because the government has collected money from smuggling and from fighting the grey economy. I have a question for the Prime Minister: then why does Parliament have to update the budget and the government have to borrow? Apparently, money isn't from fighting the gray economy and smuggling. I think that, to the greatest extent at this point, the responsibility lies on the Prime Minister's shoulders, especially with this scandalous statement, for a single decision to pay the deal now and immediately at once. We demand that he be called and answered the questions of MPs from BSP for Bulgaria. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u13	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. The Deputy Prime Minister with the corresponding portfolio Mr. Karakachanov is in the Chamber, but the Prime Minister will still be informed.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u14	The Deputy Prime Minister has not made such a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u15	Let's move on. Mr. Mareshki, you have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We of the Volley Party demand to be invited by the President of the State [[Applause, GERB laughs]] in the hall because, you know, recently for a rather scandalous statement in which he says that these are not the costs of the plane and that they will very soon swell repeatedly. We insist that he, as commander-in-chief, as a majority elected president, as a specialist in the field of airplanes come and explain these things to us so that it does not turn out that at the end of today we will make a decision for which, naturally, as non-specialists in this area, we may be misled in other ways. That is why we insist that the President come to us and explain his view of this deal. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and VOLLA.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. The President's Administration will be informed of your invitation. We continue with the speeches. First to make a statement Mr. Chukolov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! As we are all clear, today we are dealing with an extremely important topic, and these friendly banter that we saw at the beginning of the sitting do not fit what we are going to discuss today. What are we discussing today? We will discuss how the Bulgarian state will give over three billion dollars actually for these eight American fighters. In recent weeks, months, however much this topic was discussed, and this was not enough, a lot of untruths were said that F-16 are the perfect fighting machine, which is absolutely suitable for Bulgaria. There are no other options for European, Russian, there are no such things. It's the perfect machine built in 1974, we're in it, modernized in some way. The latest modernization is yes, it can now carry nuclear bombs, but we don't care about that. But to these machines, the Bulgarian state has dedicated everything to its entire resources in recent months to be purchased, ignoring a decision of the National Assembly, ignoring agreements for increasing the rates of gross domestic product that will be spent on this. It is clear that the price will increase. It is clear that in the years ahead, these planes must be maintained, they will have to be completed with the respective armed bombs and so on, which, naturally, cost money that will be sold to us by the American side. Another untrue thing to say and we need to talk about it is that Bulgaria did not have a contract with the United States of America for free use of the American, on the Bulgarian bases, which, yes, the error is the wrong one. In 2006 by the party "Attack" in the South Park and the US Embassy we went to express our opinion and opinion that four Bulgarian bases should not be given for free use of the US country. Something that was done. And now I hear here these days from Mr. Karakachanov, from other factors from the Ministry of Defence, who say, "There are no American bases here." How can you say such a thing? Actually, there is! Here is the contract concluded between Bulgaria and the United States of America for free use of four bases in Bulgaria. These four bases, when used, the Bulgarian side has no right to know what comes in and what comes out of it, it is written in the Treaty. The Bulgarian side has no right in any way to request information from the Americans. That's how this contract was signed. That's how this contract for American planes will be concluded. This lack of debate in the Bulgarian society and the military, when they appear in front of the media, actually led to the fact that we have to say this reckoning: these planes will be received at a hugely high price and it is declared here that by the party Ataka. People's representatives from the party are here. Mr. Siderov is on leave, signed by Mrs. Karayancheva, but representing the position of Ataka. Here, before you, I tell you clearly and firmly: this contract should not be signed. Now we're going to give the money in advance, 2023 we're going to get, eventually, these planes from the United States. [[(Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria (BSP for Bulgaria: "First")]] Ah, the first plane here suggests. Thank you. Two thousand twenty-three years we'll get the first plane. Two thousand twenty-third year! It's 2019. In four years! In four years, Russia will probably have an F-600, they are talking about the F-500 that the sky above Europe has already ended for NATO forces. Two thousand twenty-third years we will have planes from 1974, which, eventually, will have to somehow be opposed to a country that has the last word of technology. Does that make sense to you? It doesn't make sense to us at Ataka and that's why we won't support it and we won't vote for this deal. In conclusion, let me tell you something that sounds pathetic. On the day of July 19, 1916, was born the hero Dimitar Spisarevski, who fought and crashed against the American flying fortresses that bombed Sofia. How did it happen, by any chance, or how, or another humiliation that on this date, on July 19th, we bought these American planes whose predecessors 1943 bombed Sofia? On the date the hero Dimitar Spisarevsky was born?! For us, from Ataka, this, again, is not acceptable and we will not support this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Chukolov. - What's the line? I can't see. Dear Mr. Karadayi, come in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u20	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! I am expressing the strong position of the Parliamentary Group on the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and in support of the proposals Draft Law on the ratification of the four international treaties bringing together the supply of the overall package of aeroplanes, mission equipment, ground handling funds, weapons, means of training of flight and engineering and technical staff. Our position is strictly consistent and in line with the Euro-Atlantic orientation of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. We from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms for 30 years have invariably maintained the Euro-Atlantic orientation of our country. National security, peacekeeping, stability, democracy are our party priority and our little one. When it comes to sovereign sovereignty, national security, the stability of the country and the region do not matter political bias. We need responsibility and wise state-of-the-art behavior. The treaties, whose ratification is on the agenda, will enable Bulgaria to strengthen its authority and increase its role as a country providing stability in the region, as a country, a reliable partner in the European Union and NATO, and internationally within the framework of bilateral relations and multilateral initiatives. Undoubtedly, the proposed bill is a step forward in this direction - an important condition for security and stability. But that's not enough. It is necessary to work very closely to ensure national security. Because a threat to national security is any violation of democracy, any violation of the rights and freedoms of Bulgarian citizens. In this direction, there is much more to be done. Hate and xenophobia are a threat to national security. Countering ethnic and religious foundations undermine democracy and pose serious risks to national security. The reduction of sensitivity to these negative trends in Bulgarian society is a fact and this in itself is an alarming sign. The country's security, the sovereignty of the state can only be protected from spirit-free citizens. Fear and hatred are not inherent in free personalities. Yesterday we celebrated the anniversary of Levski's birth, whose covenants we must keep: for a pure and holy republic, for equality before the law, without difference of gender, ethnicity, religion. The covenants of Levski oblige us to fight for democracy, for the protection of rights and freedoms, for civil and political rights, to defend the right of every Bulgarian citizen to vote, to make a free and informed choice. A step to overcome negative national security trends is the country's strong, accelerated economic development based on a common political consensus on the country's priorities, on the country's future. That is why we are constantly insisting on the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and calling for the nationally responsible political powers. Therefore, along with competence, political responsibility, government thinking, will and determination are needed. Let us show such will today in the name of the future of the country to support the proposed bill. The decision is strategic for the country's security, but it is only one of the steps to be taken to ensure national security. Let us not forget all the other elements of national security, including the guidelines that I have referred to above. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. - What's the line? You have the floor, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Karadayi, it is clear to everyone that this deal is not only the most looting deal for the entire history of Bulgaria but is also the greatest danger to Bulgaria's national security in this regard. However, I am making the line not because of this, but perhaps the most disgusting thing that may happen today outside the vote on this deal, and that is to involve the Apostle's name with this deal. We strongly oppose the name of Deacon Levski being involved in this deal, which, again, we define as the most plundering and the greatest danger to national security because it is actually weakening our entire country. My request is that everyone else comply. The will of each of you is to vote as he sees fit, but let us not involve the few saints we have in our history, true Bulgarian patriots and statesmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Second line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Karadaye? No. We'll continue with the next speech. Docent Mihov, come in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, honourable generals, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Today we are facing one, we can say, a last or small step in the realization of this significant project, which can make a big leap in the Bulgarian Air Force. If we ask ourselves the right questions, we will also receive the right answers. Today we have to ask ourselves the basic question: is it necessary to modernise the Bulgarian Air Force and put an end to this process, which in regular reports on the state of defence was defined as erosion of the country's defence capabilities? The answer is We need a radical change in our military policy and in this respect the purchase of this multi-purpose high-tech fighter aircraft is the first real step in re-arming the Bulgarian army on a modern basis in 30 years. I would just like to remind you that these days we celebrated the 30th anniversary of the last purchase of modern aircraft and high-tech weapons in our army, MiG-29. From a historical point of view, we have to admit that this act of the then rulers was correct and politically and militaryly appropriate. Today we're up against doing something like this. Only a year ago and something was asking questions old or a new plane. Today I think we and society have an answer: no, we don't need an old one, we need a new plane. The question was that this offer was for an airplane that didn't exist. It is obvious that not only us, not only countries in Europe, in the European Union, but many countries around the world have already paid for this plane. Today the question is raised about order of circumstances of the deal, but the fundamental question is: will we be tempted by the political appropriateness and party selfishness to stand against the deal, or will we support this important process of renewing our armed forces? We at IMRO will support this contract for the acquisition of the plane because our pilots, our defenses, need a real weapon, which our neighbours don't have at least that is the opinion of the President of our Republic, who is a professional pilot and I trust him at least with regard to aviation. With regard to aviation, it can be supported! In this direction we appeal to everyone: let us place on the scale political selfishness and political party bills, and the other on the day of the birth of Spisarevski to give the brave Bulgarian pilots not a second-hand French airplane, but produced for Bulgaria, paid from the Bulgarian pocket and managed by Bulgarian pilots Bulgarian aircraft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u25	Thank you, dear Associate Professor Mihov. A line? Mr. Mareshki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable ministers! Mr. Mihov, I'll be very brief. Why is what you call appropriate is a very good deal? Shortly before that, your colleague and former Deputy Prime Minister from your group called it shameful, disgraceful, embarrassing, and you have now seen the printout you have voted on this shame and disgrace not to appear on the Bulgarian national television so that the Bulgarian citizens can not see it. If you can answer only this question: how about this shameful and disgraceful deal, which you do not want to see the Bulgarian citizens, you are now going out and telling us how worthy and good it was for Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u27	Second line? I won't. Docent Mihov, you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u28	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Mareshki, you have a different opinion, Mr. Valeri Simeonov has a different opinion. He's older than I am, and I respect him as much as I would like to respect you, but that doesn't mean that I have to agree with you or with Mr. Valeri Simeonov. That is why we are different, that is why we are having this debate here and it is indicative that we are living in a democratic European state. Never before, but never in our new history, problems related to the army, the arming and acquisition of such significant funds and weapons have been discussed in the National Assembly. Never! In both royal and communist times! For the first time today in a democratic European Bulgaria, every Bulgarian citizen can read and inform what his money will be spent on. The money from the pocket of every taxpayer, and that is why we are glad that we live in such a society and that you, although not right, have the right to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. We continue with the speeches. Dear Mr. Simeonov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria will vote against this deal and not to redirect the Bulgarian military industry to delivery of Russian flying coffins, not because of this. The main reasons are: first of all, we believe that the price is extremely high. I offer my condolences to Mr. Goranov, the minister of finance, because these expenses were not set and were not foreseen.. This proves it next item on the agenda. At this price, we could buy twice as many European aircraft production, prove our belonging to the European Union, support European producers. Or if we were to buy these 16 planes, so needed according to NATO requirements, this could come at a half price, and the rest of the money could be redirected to another more useful direction. The second reason is that the thesis on increasing defense ability in the protection of the Bulgarian sky is ridiculous, as Turkey has more than 600 aircraft, one Greece with more than 350, even one Serbia with about 40 planes in the vicinity of us. Is this how we're gonna secure national security with eight planes in four years, and 16 I don't know how long?! It's a ridiculous thesis! And last but not least, our perception of national security is that with times lower price we could provide protection and privacy of the Bulgarian sky by restoring several missile bases with rockets. In this case, I will in no way reproach my esteemed colleagues Krasimir Karakachanov and Emil Karanikolov. I can't blame them in any way! They perform their duties and perform them responsibly and conscientiously, but in this case they are in the role of Victor Hugo's poor. These are Gavroche and Cosettes who at the barricade...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u31	Please, dear Mr. Simeonov, you're talking about ministers!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u32	...stand by the task set. I fully understand their position, and I can't blame them in any way. But my colleagues and I are against the servile, humiliating and servile behavior of the Bulgarian Parliament and of the Bulgarian government, who, with a decision in the Official Journal, number 51, have determined the conditions for the competition and then known under whose pressure.......................... from Washington, of course, were forced to change these initial conditions and humiliate Bulgaria......................... That's exactly what happened! And we in the National Assembly have become empathetic to this humiliation, changing our decision and changing four basic parameters, or closing our eyes, in what humiliating way, with a second vote imposed, unfortunately, by our larger partners. It is about the most important thing in a deal: the price that was raised from the permissible ceiling of 1.8 billion to over 2 billion. The second significant discount or curtsy that we made was to one of the participants, namely "Lokheed" "We extended the delivery deadline for the first planes from two to four years." With this we have shown, again I say, my dependence and the lack of independence, national self-esteem and dignity. That's all I have to say. I would also call on the other MPs to focus not on the technical parameters, not on the details of the deal, but on what the highest legislative body of the Republic of Bulgaria will look like after such a decision under dictation. Thank you for your attention. [[Private applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u33	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. A line? You have the floor for a line, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Simeonov, I agree with everything you have said, but I disagree with you for expressing your condolences to Mr. Goranov. Rather, I think that our condolences deserve all our pensioners taking 200 BGN, who with today's ratification of this contract will practically have to be deprived of their pension three months. Each Bulgarian citizen will have to pay about 600 BGN. on this transaction, whether it is working, retired, a small child, regardless of age and its financial capabilities, the price of this transaction is roughly that much. I would also like to address our compatriots selling their votes to people who will actually pay this money at the expense of those who sell their votes for 50 leva. To know who people are voting for, and that today they will take about 500 BGN, but not only from them, but from their children and their parents. That was my line. [[Private applause from the Bulgarian Rhodophilizers.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Simeonov, the back? You refuse. We continue with further comments. Mr. Mareshki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Unfortunately, I will start with something slightly different only in the interest of the truth so that Bulgarian citizens can see the opinion of their people's chosen for this important deal and as one of the "United Patriarchs" said "Shaming and disgraceful." You, Mr. Mihov, are one of the few of the 20 who voted against this debate. You may be the only person in Bulgaria and perhaps in the world who is not proud of everything he does, does not want it to be exposed, but is ashamed of it and tries to hide it. Get to the point. Karl Gustav Manerheim is a great general, general, field marshal, president, real statesman: What happens in Bulgaria? March 2019: "Campania collects nearly 3 thousand. lv. only for a week in help of a Kazanlak hospital "; April: The hospital in Lovech relies on donations "; July: "Pirogov will receive an ambulance as a donation, not F-16, but an ambulance " is not clearly old, new and in what state; July 2019: "Young people donated money from their wedding for the treatment of a sick child "; apparently the state has failed to handle this treatment; "Zov to help " 20-year-old Kaloyan wants to walk again"; "The Burgas family donates Kuvioz to a local hospital "; April: "Students collect products for needy elderly people from Northwestern Bulgaria ";. September: A charity initiative to help premature babies gathered more than 15 tons of children; Three wards are in danger of closure in a Plovdiv hospital.Schools rely on donations from former graduates.The School of Arts and Crafts miraculously survived.October: Students from a Plovdiv High School raise funds for a baby in need of emergency liver transplantation. Doctors at the Karlov hospital are ready to resign on the same occasion. January: The hospital in Belogradchik works day-to-day.October: The transplantation facilities are extremely insufficient for the development of transplantology in Bulgaria..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And so on, and so on, until yesterday or the other day, again in all the news, everyone in another municipality is showing us the clue that in the 21st century people who will defend themselves with F-16 have to drink. In fact, they not only don't drink it, they don't bathe their children and the mother on all media explains how she can't bathe her child, because this water is not even good for bathing the pig. That's in the 21st century where we have to solve the only problem. We do not say that we are opposed to the modernization of the army, but see what the wise statesmen have said: the first people, first their level of life. And I ask, in fact, Bulgarian citizens ask: is there even an initiative? In fact, I would like to call Mr. Mihov to come out and say, "Take caps or donate leftovers to F-16!" No Bulgarian has conducted an initiative for collecting caps or leftovers in such a direction. It's all about quite other things for health care, education, internal security. [[Heckling]] Let's start Mihov and see how many caps he collects and how many leftovers for F-16. We're not gonna talk about the deal. Mr. Simeonov explained it very accurately: brutally high price. When we supported that we could move towards the initial price that we had set in the National Assembly, it was because the ministers convinced us that in the negotiations for which they needed such a solution, they would negotiate a reduction in the price. We will not talk about the price that it is brutal, that it is the highest for the poorest country and the highest in the world, because it is more essential. The main thing we want to pay your attention to is that it's not the price. If Bulgaria is rich and there are no destitute pensioners, destitute Bulgarians at all, if all hospitals, all schools, police, who are again on protest, if everyone are happy and happy, we would not oppose. We would not oppose this deal, no matter how looting it is, but it is not appropriate at this time. It took investment for the army. Yeah, but isn't it necessary to invest in health care, education, internal security, athletes? How many medalists have we had since how many championships in recent years? Do you remember how all this was going when all of you were students? How many coaches were walking around, gathering the children, sports, and from all this mass was born these people who created the Bulgarian national pride. Not selling the Bulgarian national interest, identity and citizenship, but creating national pride. [[Heckling]] I understand that here on Earth, most of the people, including all of us, feel unpunished. There is no one to punish us. We are gods, we can do anything, we can sell Bulgaria, we can also resurrect it. Clearly, we have no fear here on Earth of anyone, but I want to address those of you who are true believers: have you no fear of God? I also address those who, out of pure display, go to temples: to what do we condemn our country, our people, and our children? Yes, some children are abroad, but those who want to live in Bulgaria, what do we condemn them to? For poverty and misery! Believe me, this does not go unnoticed. Everyone will bear his responsibility both to the people and to God. [[Heckling]] I call you... Yes, some will go to hell, but this, unfortunately, is not funny in this case, because he with him is dragged into hell and the entire Bulgarian people. Wise men have said: "You must take care of the welfare of your loved ones and relatives, your compatriots and mankind as a whole. " Some, when they have read this wisdom, have come only to the first sentence of taking care of our loved ones, and where do our countrymen go, where does humanity go in general? Ladies and gentlemen, think about it, turn to your loved ones, to your voters, the ones who sent you here in front of you, and I am convinced that none of them supported you for this vote. I hope that reason, fear, and God's punishment will finally affect this thing today. When we create such a level of life for our countrymen that they want to keep it, then we can buy them more expensive planes, and more modern ones, to prepay them 10 years ahead, if they are so wanted, to create even more jobs abroad, to make many other peoples more sound, but let us take care of the Bulgarian people first. Thank you very much and I hope for your wisdom. And just one last thing to announce that we will not only strongly support this deal, we will not be present in this House because the presence in this House is legitimizing itself and we do not want to be part of this shame. Thank you. [[Noise and lines. Partial applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Are there any lines? I won't. We continue Mr. Mihov for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Mareshki, three times mentioning me, you've given me a compliment bigger than the one my wife has ever done in my life. I'd like to thank you somehow. [[Noise and lines.]] But my line is in another direction: do not mention God's name in vain, people who truly believe in God say. You have outlined many charity activities, which is glad that the Bulgarian helps people in distress. This is a feature of our people for centuries, and it will be centuries ahead. But you didn't mention your charity, which you may have and which you should brag about in order to brush your authority a little bit, as a MP with down immunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u39	Thank you, Professor Mihov. Procedure Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u40	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A little more than 45 minutes ago, the chairman of our parliamentary group asked you to call the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Chamber to explain to us what his motives were and whether what he said was really true that he had ordered, not even insisted, but ordered that this deal be paid at once in advance. Please inform us: did you call the Prime Minister and what is his response? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. The administration of both the Prime Minister and the President has been informed of the invitations to them. The Prime Minister is located in Varna, the President is located on Rozhen, so they are prevented from attending both of them today's meetings. [[Noise and lines.]] We continue with the speeches. Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u43	Let you know from the beginning that you only have two minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u44	You don't have to remind me, Mr. Chairman. We all know very well, it's true..................................................................................... Let these remarks and my response to you not be respected in time. Honourable Members, Mr President, as I spoke to you yesterday, and in this case it is a matter of geostrategy. It's about other people's interests. It's about a dictatorship. This is not about anything else, not about our sovereign will as Bulgarian MPs and parliament, but about the United States, especially after President Trump's arrival in power, making this policy strictly and accurately throughout the world. Many planes sold to Saudi Arabia, Croatia, Slovenia, I would continue this list to infinity. Of all these we are just another factory to produce new planes and so on. Another act of surrender of the unsovereigned colonized country of Bulgaria, another act of surrender with regard to the armed forces of the Bulgarian Army, is in question. Such acts of surrender have several. From the very beginning, first, the disarmament of the Bulgarian Army and its descent from the strongest army in the European South East to the gendarmerie for the achievement of the colonial goals of some countries at close and distant points. The cutting of the scrap rockets in particular was such an act of surrender; the transformation of the Bulgarian army into a rental was the same act. This brought it down to an even lower cat; the act of surrender was the introduction of the American bases in Bulgaria. And I wonder how some people deny that there are four American bases in Bulgaria. Enough of this mutual and universal lie that they were joint facilities. By the way, in return for what we give to these bases, the planes, if we had a sovereign role and were worthy politicians, had to be given to us free of charge or at a symbolic price, as the United States did for much less important allies than us. And I know that in this Chamber, yesterday I saw the Defence Committee, present generals, former Warsaw officers who swore allegiance to communism, were uncomfortable that someone could have such a position in Bulgaria. There are a lot of people in Bulgaria who are currently worried about the position of "Attack" in other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u46	And that's where I'm gonna end up. But there's something comforting here. In previous acts of surrender, there were timid, timid, against and for cutting up racketeering several people, and for turning the army into a hired army.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u48	For the bases, about a dozen people. Today, a lot of people give paint...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u49	Time has run out many times. Finish it!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u50	...which is optimistic for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u51	- What's the line? I won't. We continue with the speeches. [[Heckling]] Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mr. Minister, Dear Guests! I will start my speech by saying that the only party that consistently adhered to a position that did not change over the years in terms of modernization of the Bulgarian army is the Bulgarian Socialist Party and its parliamentary group. And our behaviour, from the outset, proves this statement of mine, because we were the only ones to bind the modernization of the Bulgarian army to the state of the country's economy and to its social policy, because we were the only ones who put the conditions that we could not develop a kind of armed force, at the expense of the other armed forces, because we were the only ones who claimed that when you had insufficient gross gross domestic product as a result of poor governance of the state's economy, there is no way that much of this gross domestic product could go only for security, in the area of defence, because it takes money from the social security system, the energy security system, at all for all other systems that are an element of the national security system. You know that a year ago, when the project for investment expenditure was discussed here, we supported it, supported it with the requirements of having a balanced development of Bulgaria's armed forces, because there is no way you can talk about national security and defence security if you are developing only one type of armed forces such as the Air Force, at the expense of the Navy and Land Forces. The other thing we put as a condition at the time was that the cost of acquiring a new type of combat plane would be below 2% of gross domestic product. Why less than 2%? I will just tell you that in the European Union, specifically in NATO, only seven countries meet the requirement of 2% of gross domestic product expenditure. These are the United States of America, Britain, Greece, the three Baltic States and Poland. We now join these seven with these costs if we ratify this treaty today. But look at the level of life in these countries, look at education systems, look at health systems. See that even in a bankrupt Greece the minimum pension is greater than our average salary in Bulgaria. [[Heckling]] You do realize that what we're trying to do now is take some money from these social security systems to transfer them to another system, and partly? There is no way we can talk about national security and its improvement when, at the same time, the status of the military, their pay, their bribery, their equipment, are at such a level that it seems to me that they are even ashamed to wear it to walk on the streets because they look not like military, but I do not know what you are. They are honored by these people that despite these low payments, despite the fallen status of the serviceman, they work there. But instead of focusing primarily on raising this status, instead of focusing primarily on motivating people to serve in defence of the state, we are now trying to raise some costs that will in no way lead to improving our national security. I would further like to tell you that we then supported this project for investment expenditure and with a huge demand that we have appropriate industrial cooperation. Industrial cooperation, Mr. Minister, as you explained to us in the Commission, does not mean such cooperation, which reduces your costs, and I have also told you in the Commission. Industrial cooperation means that the country from which you buy the equipment will build, not with your money, but will build capabilities for new enterprises, will build capabilities for new jobs that create added value, which will generally cover the costs with which you buy a new technique. And that's not in what we're doing right now. On top of that, we, as Parliament at the moment or more precisely, you rulers, have neglected and all your decisions that you made last year regarding investment expenditure projects with terms of time, payment method, industrial cooperation, at all today in this project that you are offering us for ratification, are gone. Instead of a billion and eight hundred with VAT, we are currently spending 2 billion. 200 million. lv. No VAT, no customs. Instead of the planes being here 2021, you are telling us that it will be 2023 and I am telling you that before 2025 a plane will not come to Bulgaria! [[Heckling]] And when you say that we've been about having Russian aviation, not us, you're the ones because instead of 2021 flying on new planes our pilots, you'll continue to spend the state's money on supporting Russian planes until 2025. [[Heckling]] The last thing I want to say to you, this is really about the most outrageous of yesterday's discards of our prime minister, who, as a true Bulgarian...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u53	Mr. Ermenkov, please consider the means of expression.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u54	I'm talking about the Project and the behavior. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u55	The expressive means are to be precise.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u56	I didn't say anything. [[Heckling]] I said, "Stuck in front of the TVs and in front of our diplomats, twice on the chest and said, "Bulgar! Bulgar pays for everything at once! [[Noise and lines.]] I'm sorry. [[Noise and lines.]] Why? Didn't he say that he ordered everything to be paid at once? You said it! And I call on the relevant competent authorities, since he has no desire and does not want to come to parliament, at least they should call on him to do at least one investigation of whether with this behavior he has not damaged Bulgaria's interests, and whether with this behavior he has not abused power. And, colleagues, I would be ashamed in your place if you today supported and ratified this treaty, not for anything else, but because of all the conditions that have been adopted, none of them have been fulfilled by the government in the negotiation process! More than that! When we accepted here, that is, you accepted, we voted against, to allow the government to deviate from the requirements of the Investment Expenditure Project, a deviation means from three conditions to deviate from one. But when you fail to fulfil all three conditions, this is not a deviation, this neglect, in practice, means that the government of the Republic of Bulgaria allows itself not to comply with the decisions of the parliament. This is not the first time, it will probably not be the last, it is not a precedent, but I would be ashamed, because with your behaviour you stimulate such anti-parliamentary, anti-constitutional behavior. Thank you. [[(Applause, cheering:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Please be careful when you talk about... [[Heckling]] Guys, think about it. This is not the language of the MP from the parliamentary tribune. [[Heckling]] Are we continuing the lines to Mr. Ermenkov? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Mrs. Grozdanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! Before my speech, I ask for a procedure.. extending the time of plenary until the adoption of item four, including, on the agenda for Friday.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u59	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 174 MPs: 114, against 52, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Please continue, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u60	Dear colleagues, we have heard a lot of argumentation. She's been one-way so far, and I think we should move on to the arguments on the other side. Today, at first glance, we are debating the acquisition of a new type of fighter, and therefore long, as we can see, we are discussing both its combat capabilities and its price. But what we are actually debating is, in my opinion today, something more important. We are deciding the future of the Bulgarian Army, its modernisation and reaffirming our geopolitical orientation. The Bulgarian army is one of the symbols of statehood and the Bulgarian people love their army and our history is full of evidence of the bravery of the Bulgarian soldier. In the last 30 years we have owed the Bulgarian soldier who did not receive enough equipment, equipment, modern type of weapon to prove his professionalism. This was a period of deprivation and shortage for all Bulgarian soldiers. This was a period of reduction of the Bulgarian army's fighting ability and I think it is time to acknowledge it. Today, honourable Members, we must decide whether this period is time to end. Should we take the first step towards a modern and strong army that is capable enough to protect its country and its citizens? We decide whether the Bulgarian fighter pilot will pilot a fighter that will increase the operational capabilities of our Air Force. Nearly 30 years ago, Bulgaria rejected the totalitarian state to become a member of the society of European and free peoples. Again, Bulgaria sovereignly chose to be a NATO member. We have done this with a clear mind and with the understanding that there are also responsibilities behind this decision. Then we decided to change the system and change the foreign policy orientation of our country. I believe that neither Bulgarians, as citizens nor Bulgarian politicians, had the illusion that freedom and security were at a low cost. Here and now, honourable Members, it is time to reaffirm that our country has made the right choice. Today, we are not just deciding what NATO membership we want to have in the coming years - nominal membership or real membership? Dear colleagues, our vote today will give signs in different directions. First of all, we will show our NATO and European Union allies that Bulgaria is a partner with a significant contribution to the Union's efforts to address the common security challenges, and there are not few of them today. We will show that Bulgaria is not only a consumer of security, but will also contribute qualitatively to the common defence. However, the even more important signal that we are going to give is to the Bulgarian citizens. It is whether we want to continue in the direction we chose 30 years ago, and this is the clear orientation towards the democratic world. We're also sending out a signal whether we want, once again, a strong, capable and modern army to meet the requirements of time? I am convinced that there is no one in this room who is unaware of the correct answer to this question. Another question is whether it will be supported by everyone. Therefore, I call on you to support proposals from the Council of Ministers Draft decision on ratification of the treaties with the United States of America for acquisition of platform F-16 Block 70 related to the arming, maintenance and preparation of personnel. Let us give more security and opportunities to the Bulgarian soldier to protect Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u62	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! In some of the speeches that we have heard so far, populism has ruled, and I would like to highlight your attention to the main issue of modernization and its purpose. I would like to remind you all that modernization in the three types of armed forces is extremely late. The main objective of modernisation is to reduce and subsequently resolve the positively pronounced deficit of capabilities to carry out the tasks assigned to the types of armed forces. We absolutely need to show political maturity and state-of-the-art thinking in terms of modernisation projects. We are on the verge, after 15 years of speaking and timid attempts, to realize one of the three most important projects of the armed forces. The implementation of the most important air force modernization project for acquisition of multi-purpose fighter will contribute to the image of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Army, as well as to generate security and not only to consume one as a NATO member. The ratification of the F-16 international treaty and the associated support is an important step forward in order to launch the modernisation process. The F-16 is a fourth-generation aviation platform with the fifth generation airman, with the aircraft with absolutely preserved capabilities, weapons systems, familiarization, encryption and navigation. Its modern equipment enables its systems to be open to the addition of any kind of weapons existing at the time, as well as newly created in the future. There must be absolutely no opposition between the types of armed forces and there should be no lag of other projects for the Land Forces and the Navy. As NATO members, we should have the necessary defence budget, not rely on the mantra preached by many politicians that NATO will protect us. We absolutely must stop the opposition to matters and security and defence policy with those of health, education and pension insurance. To end this cheap populism preached by some politicians and some of the parties in parliament. Some parties declare that they are for modernization of the army, but not to exceed 2% of gross domestic product. And where were the same honourable colleagues and colleagues from other parties who spoke when for years the defence budget was between 1.1 and 1.3% of gross domestic product? Then why did they keep quiet? The new technique requires a serious and responsible attitude from all political parties on security and defence issues, namely sufficient budget to guarantee the security and sovereignty of the country. I'm just gonna give an example and I'm gonna graduate. Ten years ago, the defence budget was as much as the health budget was. Now the health budget is five times more than the defence budget and you know what problems there are in health care. I'm not saying that that money for health care is enough. They also need more money, but other approaches must be sought, and the defence issues and the Bulgarian army, which guarantee the security and sovereignty of the country, should be given due attention. True, political parties have the right to speak populistically, but let the sense of duty and responsibility to the security and defence of the country prevail and come to the right decision in principle. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u63	Thank you, Mr. General. Please, the chairmen of parliamentary groups, provide me with a list of speeches, because you see that it is difficult to comply with the rules on the rotation of speeches by the different parliamentary groups. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Here you are, you have the floor, General Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister of Economy, gentlemen of generals! The finalisation of the deal for the eight F-16 Block 70 fighters is a fact, but there are many questions to which the government owes an answer to the Bulgarian citizens. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, the Bulgarian state has set a precedent. We have given reason for the preparation of the next aviation projects to be asked of us to pay the entire amount immediately and not deferred. I ask myself, since the planes and the American company the state can do it, will we have enough strength for the other projects? I won't comment on the contract price. I believe it is real and that the Bulgarian interest is somewhat protected. We've already figured out what the financial value of the deal is, but hasn't the consequences of buying this new technology become clear? It basically changes everything.. eliminates what has been done for decades, requires many changes, which are very few being talked about. For example, how much will the other air missiles cost to the requested combat kit from the Bulgarian state? We said 16, maybe for a price reduction we made 12, even for 13. The rest of us still have to buy them. When will rocket air be acquired, and when in time will funds be allocated to them to use planes really as multi-purpose ones? It is true that they have this opportunity, but they must also be equipped. We want to hear how many rockets and ammunition are going to be bought annually for shooting, because after all, we don't buy these planes to show them at the parade and enjoy them, but to participate in missions and air fights? We must also bear in mind the need for financial insurance for pilot flight training, as these planes are expected to be used for 30, 40 years. How many million will we have to put aside for arms: 10, 20, 30 million? How much will the replacement of infrastructure, which is our commitment to the Treaty cost? We buy under the Project and ground equipment, which is good, but it needs to be installed and maintained. Will it only be at Graff Ignatevo Airport, or will we have to install Bezmer as an alternate airport? There is also an estimate of the technical preparation on an annual basis and of our periodic reviews. Not to be like the unfortunate cougars and the Spartans we pay for, and they never fly because there's no money for spare parts or repairs. It should be known that the millions we give are for subscription and labor, and the parts we have to buy from the state. We spent over 60 million on MiG-29. The dollar to adjust the airport. Are we going to build new hangars now? Last but not least, what are we going to do about the anti-aircraft missile complexes? Most of them do not have the NATO-Woman's system of getting to know one another. In fact, for these rocket complexes, the new planes are foreign. All radar stations will accept and monitor them as strangers. It appears that in the coming years, resources will also need to be allocated to address this problem of anti-aircraft defence and the introduction of new familiarisation systems in order to avoid experience when silenced the entire system because of the planes that flew over our country to strike Kosovo and Serbia. It must be clear to everyone that by implementing these contracts, the state is committed to much more means of defence. They are expected to throw the sum of two, three, four that and more billion leva. Can we afford it in the next few years?! The parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria is always about the modernization of the Bulgarian Army, but at the same time for all types of armed forces without doing so at any cost, and at a high price. The main argument today that we do not support these projects is their excessive appreciation and the need for us to be committed in the coming years to the separation of inefficient financial resources in the sector. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u65	Thank you, my dear General. Is there a line to General Milev? Mr. Toshev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister, Ministers, Gentlemen Generals and Deputy Ministers! Today we are having a debate which has not been led in this House for many years, a debate which is practically a turning step in the development not only of our armed forces, but also of Bulgaria, and it is an irreversible turning step. I hope that at the end of the vote we will end this saga that has been going on for tens of years. I would like to say to my fellow Members who have so far opposed I am pleased that there is such a serious debate in both the Commission and here in this House once again, that the dignity of a nation is guaranteed by its army, its national independence and sovereignty. The quality of health care, education, social network provided by the state, including the cost of aspirin, is very important, only they do not give us our national pride. I would like to remind you that not a wise man, but history has proven that there is a state there, and the state begins where there is a flag and a sword. Everything else is a consequence and it is good to have it in very high quality. In order to have a country, however, we must have the flag to be guarded by the weapon and by our military. I would like to say my opinion and justify it: today we are not ratifying a deal, we are taking a step that guarantees Bulgaria's national security and lasting orientation towards Western values, towards NATO, towards the European Union as a full, quality and predictable ally and member. It's a fact, and it's the pain of a lot of people in this room who are having a hard time going through it, but they have to accept it. This is the choice of Bulgarians and Bulgaria not from today, not from yesterday, for tens of years to all Bulgarians, so we need to be firm so that we do not have to do in the following transactions that we will do not only with the United States, but with all our allies, not be treated as unpredictable partner, who has no history, neither credit nor whatever it has left us, and do not trust us to have to pay entirely or under any other scheme. I would like to remind those who have so far opposed and how good the other planes are, that what we are buying today as platform F-16 is unique at the present time and has nothing to do with what started as a project in the mid-'70s, and has entered into a fight since 1981, and has been fighting so far in all major global conflicts, and that it is the only plane that has been produced for so many years, has fought for so many years, has been invincible so far and continues to be produced. I want to tell you that we are now the first to purchase from this modification, but after us there are 300 more, already negotiated and stated such numbers. I can tell you with countries and numbers. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The goal, colleagues, because I am being apostrobed by the BSP, is that if today, these days, we do not achieve ratifications and payments, the planes will not come 2023, 2024, but will come 2030. I would like to ask a question to the BSP: the next person to stand up from the stand to propose something. To offer something! New MiG, the old MiGs, Once again you deny without suggesting, once again you do not give an option, you only criticize. What I want to conclude with is that I want to be well understood is that the price is optimal and is as for all other partners and agreeing with the United States. I think I've said it from this tribune today is irreversible! We choose either life or life. Decide! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u67	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. Are there any lines? Here you are, General Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Toshev, we have never said that we are against the deal or that we are against the fighters. We said that for this high price you could take ten, twelve and more fighters. Why didn't that happen? Why couldn't we negotiate a larger number of fighters if they're so nice and so much we really need them? Let someone say, why couldn't we negotiate this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u69	Thank you, General Milev. Next line? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Toshev, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u70	That's a very good question. Thank you, Mr. General. First, the price is absolutely balanced between what we give and what we get. The price is one at which it is traded with all the other countries that buy this modification, with this package of arms, potential capabilities of the platform itself, ground equipment, training and subsequent maintenance. Because a lot of Bulgarians listen not only to us in the hall, but also on TV and radio, I mean that in the price we will now pay, we have the maintenance of both the flight crew and the ground equipment and the platform for the next until 2045. In practice, during the current operation of the platform. Secondly, this price includes what we have resolved last year with the vote in this House of Ministers and the Council of Ministers' opportunities to negotiate and to look for where and how to obtain the plane that we are voting on today. I want to disprove a manipulation that has very often spread in recent days that we have given a framework. There's no such thing. Last year, we didn't vote on any framework, first of all. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Secondly, open your phones and see this billion and eight hundred, which we voted last year... how much was the price of the dollar and how much is this today first? Secondly, we voted left and we traded dollars. God forbid the next GERB governments bring so that the lev becomes convertible, world currency, but it will not be soon until we have such opposition. Finally, colleagues, I would like to tell you that in this price and in the package of arms we are buying, the potential opportunity has been given to you. 600 million. In the coming years, when we need to buy what we need as weapons and equipment. On the platform that we are buying today, six battleships and two fleets, there are absolutely all the possibilities that the base plane has, and we can always not use them. Apart from that, here all military, including General Simeonov, and General Popov, know that electronic launches are the main way of training the pilots. Battle launches are used including by the U.S. Army very rarely because they are extremely expensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. Mr. Mareshki's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We've been alone for two years in this fight. In recent weeks, we have learned that the attack is also against the deal, today we understand that BSP is against the deal, and today we are most surprised that NFSB is also against the deal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u73	It's not from today!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u74	Even better if it's from a long time ago. We of Volja. We believe that this extremely important issue for Bulgaria cannot be solved without a huge political and national consensus. It is already evident in parliament that there is no such thing:....................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u75	What's the procedure, Mr. Mareshki?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u76	Just one more sentence: 90% of the people disagree with the deal. Our procedural proposal is to postpone the consideration of this point by six months until new negotiations are held and if the parameters that we have set in the Parliament's Decision are reached, we should continue if we do not stop the deal. My procedure is to stop the debate and postpone the vote on these bills by six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u77	Dear Mr. Mareshki, I have considered that your procedure is in the manner of conduct, but according to the Rules of Procedure you have no reason to take a procedure at the point, since you do not have time, because according to the Rules it enters into the time of the group, so I could not put to the vote your proposal. We continue with the speeches. Docent Tsonkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, gentlemen of the House, generals, deputy ministers! First of all, I would like to start my speech, since the Parliamentary Group of the Voljas does not have the right to a procedure, we propose a delay in voting and examining the ratification of the four contracts by six months and please submit, Mr President, our proposal for a vote now in this Chamber. I think it is wise to hold such a vote. First of all, I would like to say in my speech that the BSP for Bulgaria "as a nationally responsible and consistent party" we have always supported the Bulgarian Army, we have defended the Bulgarian servicemen! Modernization, investing in equipment and armaments is important. It is important to pay attention, of course, to the people in defence. That is why we have always said that the modernization of the Bulgarian army should be realized for all three types of armed forces. However, this modernisation must take place at the same time, all three projects must be implemented at the same time. For Bulgaria, it is important to develop our strategic relations in Euro-Atlantic terms. We have shown that we are a reliable partner in the collective security system. You, gentlemen in charge, and Mr. Borisov personally in 2010, thinking of the Bulgarian Army, cut the budget of the Ministry of Defence by 400 million, remember?! And now that we are discussing the ratification of the four treaties, you are offering us conditions under which to bury both the Bulgarian army and the Bulgarian state, because the budget cannot bear such a large cost. The deficit becomes 2%, and the cost of defence is 3% of the gross domestic product. You're thinking about the future, aren't you?! Is that what state-of-the-art thinking is?! How did you government protect the national interest in the negotiations? How are you going to raise national self-esteem and dignity when you failed to negotiate the purchase of fighter fighters? How, under these conditions? How do you protect the Bulgarian national interest and what do you show the Bulgarian citizens after constantly violating parliamentaryism in Bulgaria? Therefore, we cannot support this project for the four contracts that you are proposing. What do we get for this price? Of course, you are setting a precedent because you may also be able to win the next ones to modernize the naval forces, land troops, too, to request a one-off payment. So what do we do? What?! Where's that money coming from? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u79	Thank you, Professor Tsonkov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] A statement of intent to propose was made. [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) A line from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov.)]] I'll wait, Mr. Tsonkov. The Minister has the right to speak. [[Replys from the BSP for Bulgaria "There is a procedure. "]] Okay, I get it, guys. It's my decision. Let the minister speak. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I want to clarify two things. Right, if Parliament now votes to postpone the vote in six months, I assure you, dear Mr. Tsonkov, colleagues from BSP and colleagues from WOLIA that the price will not be lower. [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Which price?"]] The price of the plane. Who?! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] On this plane, that's right. I'll give you an example. You're probably fans of one of the other planes. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Whether it's European or not. The fact is that the price of 2016, which we had for this other aircraft and the cost of maintenance, increased. It's the market in the world. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] You're gonna tell me it's not true without doing this job. [[Reply by MP Rumen Gechev.]] I beg you very much, Mr. Gechev, I respect you, but you are speaking on topics you are not in class for. The truth is that the validity of this offer under the four contracts is 3, 4 and 5 September under the different contracts. Conjuncture in the world is such that the price will not get lower, first. Secondly, there is no spending money on airplanes at the expense of other projects. Of course all three projects, Mr. Tsonkov, are moving simultaneously. They can't move day by day and hour by hour together. The airplane project is in a phase today to vote on ratification of the treaty. The project for the ships has already been submitted offers and should be evaluated and the project for the armored machine. Yesterday the Defence Council launched it will be sent to the countries and companies willing to participate in this project. So they move simultaneously. The difference in projects is a few months. I just wanted to make it clear that it wasn't about giving up the other two projects at the expense of this one. They're moving around the same time. There's no way three projects can move from day to day together. That's it. I say again, take a look, check it out. Every year, military equipment and equipment rise as prices. Unfortunately, that is the situation in the world...................................................................................... States are concerned about their security and buying. The price won't get any lower. I'm saying this about the colleagues who are about to vote on the procedure proposed by Mr. Tsonkov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u81	Thank you. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Tsonkov expressed his intention. If he wants the floor on a point of order, you have the floor, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u82	Mr. Chairman, we from BSP for Bulgaria are proposing to postpone the vote by six months. Please put our proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u83	I get it. We can't specify in six months, but reverse opinion?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Formulate correctly what your proposal is. What do you want to postpone? What? The ratification, the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the State Budget Act?! Make at least one normal offer! [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Applause by GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u85	Please invite the Quaestors to attend the vote. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We'll wait, because your group also has MPs. [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] Besides, that was discussed yesterday. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] There is no requirement in the Rules. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please remain calm. There's no violation at the moment. We are currently waiting for MPs who are not in the Chamber. They're from your group, too. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's my decision. (Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Please, guys, don't make this awkward. You see, things are calming down, waiting for the coworkers to come. They're from your group, too. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Okay, I understand, but this is my decision and I'll wait. [[Loud noise.]] Now, that's a solution to the question. Thank you. Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u86	Mr. Chairman, I ask you to step down from the seat of the chair and stand Mrs. Jeffer, because you are violating the regulations. There is a procedure by the parliamentary group and it must be put to the vote immediately. That you are waiting for someone here is not a waiting room, here is a Bulgarian parliament, proposals are made and are voted on. Please, let Mrs. Jaffer handle the meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. I'm not breaking the rules right now. [[Strong noise from BSP for Bulgaria.]] On the contrary, I follow the Rules of Procedure and I will put the procedural proposal to the vote. Please, voting mode. Vote 212 MPs: 91, against 120, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. We are continuing the debate. Are there any other comments on this? Here you are, Mr. Gechev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u88	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This is probably the biggest investment made by the Bulgarian government, from nearly two and a half billion in the entire budgetary history of Bulgaria according to a separate investment. Therefore, we must be particularly careful when deciding on such a colossal amount against the gross domestic product of the Republic of Bulgaria. What are the facts, fellow Members? Firstly, in fact, we are financing the development of the main supplier, Lokheed Martin, and several dozen other US companies from the military industrial complex. Why are we financing development? Because at the moment, F-16 Blok 70 is on the drawing board. There's no such plane. This is the only plane in the world at the moment that, colleagues, is completely invisible. No one can see it because it is not complete, it does not fly anywhere. Secondly, the F-16 Blok 70 is not armed in the United States Army. Over three thousand F-16 previous models fly in twenty-five, six countries, allies of the United States of America, NATO member states. It's one of the most massive planes, it's great, but Blok 70, since it's invisible, it's invisible to the American army as well. Thirdly, you should know, colleagues, and the entire Bulgarian people, that the Air Force of the United States of America has a solution, stopped the purchase of any modifications to the F-16. The United States Air Force will support the manufactured aircraft of armaments. The decision of the Air Force, Congress and the Defence Commission is no F-16, in any modifications, will not be bought by the US Army. What are we voting on today? The producer country has no armaments on this plane. This plane is on the drawing board and this plane will not be purchased by the US Air Force. Why? Because the United States of America as a high-tech nation has far more modern fighters. F-22, F-35 and other modifications of the same class. Therefore, here the fairy tales: how was the most modern plane modern, but the manufacturer does not take it for weapons. It's modern, but it's not there except on the drawing. Who buys this fighter? Turned into banana republics - Slovakia, Bulgaria... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] It's about Blok 70. Don't be fooled, we're not talking about F-16 here at all. Indonesia is also waiting for Bahrain. In addition, Slovakia for a single aircraft. The price difference is $70 million less for Slovakia than for the faithful ally Bulgaria. So the United States of America, the manufacturer, does not buy this plane that you praise. I'll open a clamp. I am amazed that I will not say the name of a Bulgarian general who in the media defends the project, saying that F-16 Blok 70 has been verified in all conditions. What insolence! What terms?! Maybe the drawing was uploaded to the International Space Station to see if it could hold up in the kicked-off space? [[(Laughter) Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.)]] Amazing, I'd say! What are the facts of the working team of the Air Force of the Bulgarian Army appointed by the Bulgarian government? What are the facts? First finding. Disputes between the buyer and the legal supplier are only carried out by the judiciary of the United States of America, that is, Bulgarian law does not apply. European Union law does not apply. We, if we're arguing anything, we're going to sue with the supplier. Where? In the United States. By what right? American. With what money? Millions of costs, as legal services in the United States are expensive, says your task force. And they say, quote: Unpredictable by reason and size are the expenses of the Bulgarian country. Second finding. Guarantee terms and conditions of claim shall be exclusive rights of the supplier. They say they are formulated primarily for the benefit of the American country. We don't have any rights under any guarantees. In the contract I read it, in the section in Bulgarian and English. This is the scariest clause - two sentences that can be fatal for the Bulgarian country. It says that the supplier, beware, bears no responsibility in failing some of the clauses of the contract. I have asked the Minister of Finance, I ask you and you: what are the penalties of the supplier, any of the world who will not deliver the plane, the first example, the second quarter of 2023? The answer is: there are no penalties, ladies and gentlemen! No penalties! They can slow down the plane, see, these are high technologies and whether the manufacturer is European, American or Russian, it doesn't matter, the delay in the model can be years as with F-35. We are paying two and a half billion of the poorest country of the European Union, and we are waiting from a dead letter to 2023, and perhaps to 2030! Furthermore, says your working group, the standard conditions applicable to each of the contracts are determined unilaterally and are not subject to change at the request of the Bulgarian side. That's what your group says! Fourth finding. After the four contracts have been signed, note, I quote: "The prices can be modified by the US Government with a change in the value and timing of the individual deliveries and your group says: "As the Bulgarian side will only be informed about the modifications. I mean, you want to sign an empty check today. But it's not two and a half billion at all! The delivery country is starting to write new numbers. They wrote you correctly the people in the contracts, did you read the contracts? Have you read the contracts that say they have no responsibility, and they unilaterally, your task force, warns the government? And do you know why the task force led him by an Air Force colonel? Well, because then they will have to justify themselves to the Bulgarian investigation when the investigators come and ask why the Bulgarian people pay and the goods are gone or the goods are unfit. In addition, says your Working Group, sixth finding: The four contracts are concluded with private companies without a separate national procedure for their choice as only possible counterparties. That is, a full monopoly, which is why the price is 70 million higher than for Slovakia. For the same amount, a European country offered twice as many planes with full weapons and support! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] So shame and disgrace! And the seventh finding by your working group, the most frightening: "Freedom from any legal liability, including penalties for failure to comply with the provisions of the Treaty." So for an invisible plane, for one drawing we offer nearly two and a half billion leva to get an incomplete plane. And now to reveal another secret: the actual price is currently over three billion leva. Why? Those are the numbers of public procurement. If the law over 50 grand. lv. He wants to have a contest, the mayors do it in two by 25. Here you took the gun off the plane, he comes naked as a rifle, comes here to Bulgaria eventually the plane [[GERB noise and lines]] , and then, in order to conform, we pay another half a billion leva. I'd like to commend the supplier. The American side wrote it very accurately in the contract and correct. The US government officially warns the Bulgarian government that the incompleteness of the model, the removal of its ammunition poses a danger to the realization of the project. So speaking of Euro-Atlantic values, Bulgaria is and should be a member and loyal member of NATO, but there are other suppliers. We are obliged to spend European taxpayers' money. Let me give you a number. Two and a half billion we bring to producers in the United States that is exactly the difference. Three and a half billion come into the Bulgarian budget by European taxpayers, we pay a billion and a hundred million. Two and a half billion to go. Now the money from Germans, Swedes, English, Italians and Spanish, instead of putting it into European projects, we bring it overseas for four years with no guarantee that this project will be implemented. Bulgarian interests are betrayed, the Bulgarian national interest is not protected. The treaty is dictation.. one-sided, it is insulting to our country. And we call on you: help the Bulgarian government not to drag the followers. Vote against him! Vote against him! Thank you. [[Lowered applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u89	Thank you, Professor Gechev. - What's the line? You have the floor for a line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u90	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gechev, with many of the things you have said, I agree, but you have admitted two inaccuracies. First of all, you talked about a price of 2.2 billion. This is not a price, it is a forecast, so it is written down: The estimated price will be 2.2 billion. "And how real it will be, we will learn it, as the Minister of Defence and Deputy Prime Minister said in the Commission: "God's work." The second thing I want to tell you is that this risk that you mentioned is really great, but there is another greater risk, and that is what it is that we are buying an airplane at development level, and the contract specifically states: Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u91	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Second line? You have the floor, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u92	Mr. Chairman, I have only one question for my colleague Gechev and the entire BSP group and he is: when will you get out of the Warsaw Treaty and apply for NATO membership as a political party? Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u93	Third line? Professor Gechev, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u94	Thank you. You're right, Mr. Ermenkov, I had to make it clear that the price was estimated. The American side very correctly, very conscientiously in the contract has written that the price is estimated and that individual supplies are subject to the prices of change and delivery times. We're not even talking about the weirdness of the contract here, even they're not weird, they're against common sense. What will they deliver rockets 2021 to us in 2022, provided that the aircraft without an engine will be ready from the second quarter of 2023? We buy rockets and you don't have to be an Air Force general, these missiles are aging their fuel, other elements. So there's a bunch of things here that contradict common sense in this contract, except that it's one-sided. Secondly, the incompleteness of the plane. But, look, let's even say with a little sense of humor: buying on the American side to save in quotes, the bombs released from this multi-purpose fighter are without laser guidance. How are these bombs going to be dropped? This plane, to throw its bomb relatively accurately, has to fly low and close to the target. But, ladies and gentlemen, he's gonna be repainted by his opponent while he's flying? [[Laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] They'll repaint it into other flags and our Air Force will take it down on the way back! [[Laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] What kind of plane is this? Two thousand twenty-five years will fly low under the clouds and scare the crows!? [[Laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's not normal just what you do. Who are you lying to? Buy your bombs along with the laser guidance! Tell yourself honestly that you want three billion and something, say that you signed a one-sided contract, say that you are not responsible for the deliveries! And the price really.. here said colleagues from other parliamentary groups, is cruelly higher, as we have to change the FTA, we have to refurbish airports and so on. We're talking billions here! And that's why we're asking this question. As for NATO, well, BSP voted when there was a vote to join the North Atlantic bloc. In this regard, I would like to tell you something that some of my colleagues use for Euro-Atlantic values. But, ladies and gentlemen, are the planes of Mirage, of Gripen, of course, or of the Eurolighter, of African-Latin American values that I cannot understand, or are they Euro-Atlantic? France, Italy, Spain and Britain, where do you think they are? Are they in Africa? [[GERB lines]] . They're NATO members. We want competition, we want a stronger Bulgarian army, a stronger air force, but in compliance with justice, market rules, the possibility of our partners from Europe, they are number one, they give money in our budget, German and French workers also deserve to produce fighters like Americans. Because in the United States of America, so far, from both power stations and now only from the poorest country is flowing overseas. [[the chairman gives a sign that time has run out]] And we want an equal partnership.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u95	Please finish your thought, Professor Gechev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u96	Have a nice day. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u97	We continue with the speeches. You have the floor, dear Mr. Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u98	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Sometimes it's hard to talk after such brilliant flights of thought shining in quotes, of course. But I still want to say a few things provoked by the debate so far. It is good that we are actually having such a debate in Parliament. This has, of course, become possible because of the legal changes of GERB since 2010. Since then, all transactions over 100 million for arms have already passed through parliament for approval. Before that, they were taken in secret, in the closed doors of the Council of Ministers. By the way, at the time of the Triple Coalition, such transactions for many over two billion happened, some debates about them did not. It's a good thing there's a debate going on right now that you didn't have before. By the way, I only open one clamp here because there was talk about industrial cooperation and about offset programs. And does anyone remember what offset programs we received with the acquisition of the battle funds during the Triple Coalition, anyone thinking of some particular offset program? I can think of one: when we acquired combat flight equipment, we acquired an offset greenhouse for tomatoes. It must be very high-tech. Good luck to the government's economic team then. It's very nice to have a debate. Different political forces have different positions and that is understandable. I cannot understand a position of the BSP when it says that yes, we are a sure and predictable ally in NATO, a secure strategic partner of NATO and the United States, and every time we see something in this Parliament related to Bulgaria's deeper integration into NATO's systems, it is always met by a knife. Why, we're allies, aren't we? How to prove, look outside, imagine how we look at each other from the outside. Are we even sitting here as a predictable ally? No, since the largest opposition party is definitely against anything related to NATO integration. Look at the votes. It's not just now. For every vote on ratification of a treaty, including for the development of NATO systems in Bulgaria, BSP has always opposed, including in the process of modernization of the army. After all, the BSP turned 360 degrees and returned to its initial position against the 2016 BSP when only the esteemed Mr. Angel Naydenov then supported the modernization of the army. All the other BSP colleagues were against it. Two thousand and eighteen years, when we saw the other projects in the Commission, the BSP did not support them. Yes, well, thank you for making the right decision then to support the projects in plenary, but subsequently, we return to your original position that you were really opposed from the very beginning and are only looking for an occasion. Because the occasion: well, we're a buyer, but we're actually against it, it's not relevant, it's not relevant. But at the end of the day, what the government is offering us right now is the best thing to negotiate, to get these prices. By the way, this package, which has been proposed for training, weapons and ground equipment, is the complete package to enable the operational capabilities of these aircraft on F-16. Let us compare them then, because you have repeated yourself here several times for European suppliers. Well, let's compare them to what was proposed by other European suppliers. Last year, other European suppliers offered eight or ten planes, only with only 27-millimeter machine guns, without any weapons, of which students' planes are unarmed, even without machine guns. And this is according to official data from the supply company. You can see it on the Internet, people wrote it right. So let's see, or maybe here a request and an appeal to the Ministry of Defence: to calculate how much of this additional package of arms, equipment, radar, links and any other additional equipment comes out and whether perhaps this offer, which at first glance came out cheaper, did not turn out to be actually more expensive in the long term. We're talking about maintenance here. But I'm sorry, I've heard several times about how Bulgaria has not yet defended the ground infrastructure. Well, I'm sorry, colleagues, but the infrastructure of power supply, and so on, have never been an element of the negotiations between any of the party suppliers. Never! Not only for Bulgaria, I had the opportunity under the NATO Parliamentary Assembly to talk to Slovak colleagues. And in Slovakia, they were never an element of the negotiations, including with European suppliers or with US suppliers. The ground infrastructure was never a part of it. It has always been the responsibility of the state it receives, including Bulgaria. How much will it come out, it will be analyzed, there are some preliminary accounts at the Ministry of Defense, they will become clear. But it's a fact. The fact is that pilots will be able to be trained to conduct all types of combat missions that can carry out this plane. Speaking of armaments, there is an air-to-air weaponry, which is quite enough. If you are talking about cutting short-range missiles, long-range and medium-range missiles have been increased, including learning After all, it is important that we have trained pilots to fly modern equipment that is the best possible for the Bulgarian Air Force. Using this technique, we should be an integrated NATO member, an active and faithful NATO member. However, we rely on NATO to protect the member states and their armies to protect Bulgaria. Let us also give ours in the common security system, which is the right direction. In the end, the acquisition of such a battle platform with all the capabilities that the colleagues have here, by the way, mentioned it, will enable the most complete use by the Air Force during the time, just as we have recorded it in the projects for investment expenditure from 2016 and 2018, we meet all the requirements. This is most important to give the best to Bulgarian pilots and the Bulgarian army. Isn't that what we all want? Isn't it something we can reach consensus on to have the best for the Bulgarian army? Not to talk about 2%, less than 2% and more than 2%. I'm sorry, it's an honor to have the government of the Triple Coalition giving 2.6% each. Why don't you want to spend more on the army? I, as a member of the Defence Committee, prefer to spend more on the army. And it's right! We must not oppose the different sectors to each other, someone should come out and say: "Ama, let us not give for the military, let us give for health care! " - Both of them are an element of national security without one and without the other, there is no way we can have a state. This opposition is so characteristic of BSP to challenge a sector against a sector, a person against a person. Now, today we have reached a new level of opposition to Europeans against Americans, both sides of one union we oppose each other. Why? Why?! Because that's what you want to achieve, only division in society. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria: "Take the money and don't give! "]] No, let's wish from now on a successful exploitation of these new aircraft by the Bulgarian Air Force.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So that we can ultimately guarantee our national security. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u99	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. - What's the line? You have the floor, Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman! My fellow Member, I have the following question and clarification. First, if you could answer, I agree that...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u101	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u102	...every government must make efforts for national security.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u103	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u104	My line is why you didn't mention that two years in the budget includes 1.5 billion. lv. For re-arming and not spending it on re-arming? He aged the Bulgarian army. You compromise national security and quietly distribute them before Christmas out of the budget twice 1.5 billion. lv. Where are they, so now all of a sudden you want a budget update? Answer me this question, but it will be difficult for you. The second point: in the competition, which had organized the Bulgarian government, there were requirements for the participants and they included armaments. The proposals made, including a leading European country, are fully armed. Moreover, the country open the contract, colleague, perhaps you didn't have time to see it offers two mobile completed hangars by the company, which are portable and can be transported under wartime conditions. So all the armaments are offered. [[Reply of the National Representative Plamen Manushev.]] And finally tell me why the contest was canceled. [[Reply from GERB: "It is not true! "]] Why is a market competition being announced to the whole world? Why are our partners from NATO, the United States and Europe involved? Why are you ruining the offers from Europe? Why do the money of the Europeans they give us, you transfer to their competitors in a monopoly, in a unilateral dictatorship? Please come and answer! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u105	Thank you, Professor Gechev. Second line? I can't see. Hole, Mr. Gadget, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u106	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gechev, you obviously know as much about military affairs as you do about finance. [[Laughter, excitement and applause from GERB.]] I hope in future years the dollar will not reach 3000 leva again, because then not 3 billion, but 30 billion will not be enough. [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" Here are the facts! "]] As for the treaties that you are quoting, it is actually explicitly mentioned in the proposal from this leading European state, as you said, that the acquisition of arms is an element of negotiations with third parties and is not part of this treaty. [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria "On the contrary"]] On the contrary, read the contract! And this, by the way, is officially and publicly said by the ambassador of the country in question. Open it to yourself on the Internet is not complicated to find, it is good to read, do not give false examples, do not mislead people. As for the defense funds, I don't know what budget you've been reading. God, I wish there were 1.5 billion of them. lv. for re-arming every year. [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria "How can there be no?"]] There's a budget for the entire army to go where wages come in, where they come in and acquire. [[Reply from the National Representative Rumen Gechev: "On the contrary! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u107	Professor Gechev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u108	300 million...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u109	Where's the money?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u110	Professor Gechev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u111	...this year was the capital expenditure funds of the Ministry of Defense. Open the next point, but ultimately the budget debate is at the next point, not to violate the order of the points. By the way, I'm gonna want to, and we're gonna have a chance to have a debate on that, too. As for the proposal proposed by the Bulgarian government, let us not underestimate the work of all military and civilian experts, all the people who have been engaged in the negotiations! I don't think such a negotiation process is very easy. After all, the acquisition of any complex weaponry, rather a battle platform, always takes a long time. [[Replications of the National Representative Rumen Gechev.]] At least, including projects drawn up by the team in 2016, it is explicitly said that the initial cost of acquiring the aircraft is between 30 and 50% of the life cycle and the additional costs. Nobody's hiding this thing! It's been on since 2016, ask who cooked it in 2016. People know very well: throughout the life cycle you acquire additional weapons, additional skills. These men and women soldiers who will be trained as pilots or ground personnel, well, we have to train the next one for 40 years anyway, we won't keep them in the army! Yes, by the way, it is very important to find elements and these people to be as long as possible and motivated to serve in the army. One part of this is the government's plan to increase the wage of soldiers by an average of 10% each year, just so we can keep the people in the army. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and shouts: "Bravo, bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u112	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Radev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Mr Deputy Minister, Chief of Defense, Generals, honourable colleagues! I thought we were all gonna talk a little louder today. I have heard a lot of criticism, especially from the opposition, not to say false, but with the many true things, a lot of things that are not. Therefore, I am obliged on behalf of GERB to recall the facts, to recall these nearly nine years of efforts to say today: "Yes, we are almost ahead of the final rights to purchase a fighting tool for the Bulgarian army. In 2010, these projects for investment costs started, in 2012 I said it little from this tribune, we were going to buy one other F-16 second hand. Just a reminder. Then we paid a bill. I'm obliged to say it out of 576 million for funds that weren't combatable. Then the contracts were not concluded by you, it is only right that I specify this from the NDSV, by Minister Svinarov then, cougars, "Spartan" and so on. But we paid the bill! I want to answer Mrs. Ninova here, too, without being the Prime Minister's lawyer, I couldn't, but that's how I interpret his words. Then at the Department of Defense for four years, we didn't have the money for anything and we paid these old bills. It is very responsible now that four ministers are dealing with this problem, to pay the bill, to convince the public quite openly, as we are doing today, in front of the cameras, they, the people, to look at us, and to pay the entire bill. Except there are such rules on the American side. That's how I get his words that you quoted. Then, in the second GERB government, remember 2016, here colleagues mentioned this in this House all of you voted against it again for these investment projects. Only Angel Naydenov was really a very important detail and I remember one of you, not to mention him, even made a remark of the leading Ivan Ivanov then not to give him more than 3 minutes, because he spoke more and only defended the investment projects then. I'm just saying what happened at the time. With GERB's third government again, these projects are on the table again, we are trying again, we are continuing consistently the policy for modernization of the Bulgarian army. We've requested the 1.5 billion border. BGN, then we said: "Yes, but they won't get there, and we gave the Minister the right to go up without a ceiling. Because I would like to stress it, and please do not speculate on it, none of you, of us, of us, in this House, could not, with the help of the experts we use, tell us exactly what the price is if we talk about it. Very hard! Yes, we compare ourselves with other countries, we get information from everywhere, but we can't tell where we're going to stop. That's why we did this! Nobody wants to spend more money. So does not every government want to save money from some such expense and give it for social needs and will be re-elected again! Look for the motives and I, after the Ministry of Interior, became a police officer, and always look for there or there is no motive. So that's what happened at the time. We gave them the right. I'd like to highlight. I am very impressed with this responsibility of the government. Four ministers dealt with this problem. To congratulate Minister Karanikolov for being here for industrial co-operation! That's what we did! So we did this as a third government today at this price of 2.2 billion. lv. At an upper limit of 2.9 billion lv. You know, what was said by the Americans we already have, not to mention them, but including the plane, for 20 million. lv. rockets, for half a million ammunition and other means. It's a $1 billion package. The Commission therefore concludes that the That's the price. Is the price high? I couldn't say, I guess neither of you. But I would like to stress something else, which Professor Gechev and other colleagues have criticised here. Be careful, I've told you this before: when you criticize us, in this case you criticize the government, you criticize those people, the entire team who worked. These are the same people you'll be working with when you come to power. I trust them, as I had, by the way, to trust General Radev then. He told me personally, I'm sorry he's not here today, I'd even ask him what the best plane is. We don't have an argument here. We are now ratifying four laws. We've all picked it out, F-16, and they've said it to the same people I congratulate! These are the experts, these are our generals, under them officers, engineering and technical personnel who have said: "Yes, this is a package and it is enough for us for now. " - Here we have nothing to argue with you and I will not go there. We're politicians. We need to watch you move things properly. Yeah, frames if we've been able to make them, whether we're keeping them. And you, as an opposition, are well pointing out some shortcomings. You might want more. But don't forget and don't point them out to them. I think it's a gross mistake and I wouldn't do it, I can only congratulate them on their efforts for those 9 years. Why are we doing this now? Why didn't we do it with the second government? The first time I said, we didn't have enough political time. Well, because I saw the numbers. Because this number is such a 4.8% increase in the first quarter gross domestic product, nearly 5%, and we reach 2008 levels before the crisis. That's why we're taking the liberty now. That is why the Minister and Minister Goranov are willing to take out this money and give it. It couldn't have happened a little before! That's one of the reasons. Then the environment changed. I don't want to go in there, but if you're reading national security reports right now, things are getting thicker with the clouds. This further makes us hurry and get the money out, although we would like to give it, as we talked yesterday, for example, about pensions. Then, let us not forget that January 2018 we voted for 2%. We are obliged under art. 3 of the Washington Treaty, except for Art. 5, we are waiting for them to come and help us alone to give as much money as possible, but percent. We're the poorest country, but it's a percentage, we shouldn't be fooled. We don't give much. We give a percentage up to 2%, and we do it now. Speaking of percentages, here's the same note I have here. We're going over 2% and they're going over, yeah. But when there was a lot of money, we didn't get to 2.6% how much Hristo Gazhev said here, but 2.89 percent and it wasn't bad at the time. This was the case during the NDSV and slightly during your reign with Prime Minister Stanishev. There was money for the army. Then you say: "Yes, why were you holding 1 " 1.4% "? Now they're there, the collection rate is higher. It's already been how many? I wrote my number down somewhere: 2.7 billion. lv. excess. That is why the government is now responsible for this money! And let me highlight something that I think is very important. I think Hristo Gajev said it here. Why are we discussing these issues today in the Chamber? Except for that article. 85 of the Constitution, when there is a financial framework, enters the parliament and the treaties are ratified. Besides, it obliges us. But before that? Because GERB, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say it, we did, with Anyu Angelov, when we were ministers, we brought in this 50 million. Between 50 and 100 million in the Council of Ministers and 100 million is discussed in parliament quite responsibly, quite in the light. That's why the population should know where these 2 billion people are going in this case. 200 million. BGN, and before that, other money. Was it like this before and at your time? Why didn't you change it during Prime Minister Stanishev's time? Or NDSV? Then that money I told you, we paid it off, it was given by the minister, no one knew what it was, and no one in this room was asking. There was no Professor Gechev, there was no you and those who are now taking the floor, but there were others in your places and they were opposition, and so were we. Why didn't we ask why we didn't insist? We come and do it! That's what I wanted to say, too. I'd like to say congratulations to the servicemen. Here's the thing, someone mentioned that this cost has many dimensions. In addition to raising trust, which may be the most important thing, we are also giving modernization, for the first time we are literally stepping on the NATO highway by means of means of transport and whatnot, the cougars, Spartans and so on. I don't want to list them, I've said them many times, and now, with battle vehicles, missiles, yes, we'll pick them up afterwards. Don't forget the shade! Now we're buying what our servicemen are telling us about the general and those who know about it. They tell us, yes, this package is enough for now. They decide it, they say so and we have to trust them, and I guess you believe them too. Then we'll give out other money, and it won't be 3 billion, but it'll probably be more over the years. In other projects we should also give. We said the money is now being transferred and after New Year's is the other two projects. This must also be clear and we say it openly for this very reason that we have imported it here and discussed it in the National Assembly. I congratulate all servicemen who are both pilots and engineering and technical staff and all involved. They go there and work with this technique, they stay in the armed forces, they'll be motivated to be soldiers, and they weren't just like that until months ago, they were running away. Bulgaria will remain on the track where it has always been, had its own armed forces, its own planes. This is very important for all those who do not see them, but they are behind the types of armed forces. I would like to thank the team and definitely point out Deputy Minister Zaprianov, who is sitting in the Chamber. Yes, well done for the four ministers, but because I was in his position and I know what these negotiations mean, to thank him and his team, who managed to bring this process to an end, and now let's congratulate each other. I hope that most of you will vote for this ratification and for the acquisition of these battle vehicles, and I have also listed what others to them. I'm ending up with the word trust, by the way. I'll say it carefully so that I don't offend anyone, but in recent years, with my involvement, where I've been and talked about planes with our partners, there's always something that's been really hurting me about trust. Where exactly are you guys positioned? And the Prime Minister sometimes says a fairy tale. Do you remember what he said about the Black Sea? Yes, we are in a very complicated place and we need to be careful with our allies - Turkey, Russia, everyone around us. We have to be careful, but it was always that trust that somehow remained a thread that worried me personally. Now this is what we correct and say: yes, you are the strategic partner, and in the Bulgarian Parliament there are parties that will support what we have decided to do, and we are doing it with a clear awareness that this is for the benefit of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u114	Thank you, Mr. Radev. - What's the line? Procedure in the manner of conduct or at all?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u115	Dear Mr President, I am making the procedure for the vote on this item on the agenda to be postponed by three months. Please be put to the vote immediately in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u116	This has already been voted no. Open the Staff there is no time to delay. [[National Representative Philip Popov speaks on off microphones.]] - What's the line? I can't see. I'm adjourned for 30 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u117	Colleagues, please take your seats. We continue to examine the first point of today. General Popov, please hold. While we are waiting, I will introduce you to a notification from the political party GERB's parliamentary group. "Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 14 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly were held a General Assembly of Members of the National Assembly elected by multi-mandatory electoral districts with registration of the Political Party GERB at the parliamentary elections held on 26 March 2017, which HAS DECIDED He elected Alexander Rumenov Nenkov as vice-president of the political party GERB parliamentary group. Please carry out the necessary actions under the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly, with a copy of the Parliamentary Group Decision. Dear General Popov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u118	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Of course, there's little time left, and there's no way I can say all that I want to say. I respect the discussion that was held, unfortunately, maybe the cameras made it a little more emotional. I'd like to go a little further back in time and remind you that we've been talking about the modernization of the Air Force for at least 15 years and people have waited. At least 15 years! There were various governments, various ministers, and all of them, of course, for one reason or another, left this project solely on paper. Words, promises, and after all, nothing. I would like to congratulate the Bulgarian government and Prime Minister Borisov for finding courage that they did not spare efforts to get to this stage. Many people were involved, many teams were working and I would like to congratulate General Stoykov and General Botsev, who is in the hall, and Deputy Minister Zaprianov. Wonderful work, thank you for your efforts! You gentlemen and the people led by you worked for the future of the Air Force, for the future of the Bulgarian Army and for the future of Bulgaria. I think that we can say with certainty that Bulgaria is an island of stability - financial, economic, political, wonderful foreign policy - and that is what gives us reason to say now: yes, we have resources, it is time for our suffering army, our suffering armed forces to get what they deserve. Of course any contract can be discussed. There's no perfect contract, there's no way everyone's gonna be happy, but I'm just gonna go with a few things we should know. If we ratify these contracts, we buy an extremely modern aircraft with exceptional combat capabilities, with enormous capabilities, and that gives people self-confidence, that raises people's fighting spirit. By the way, the old rule is that when you don't have a chance to buy a lot, you have to buy a good one to have enough restraining effect. It doesn't make sense if you're going to buy eight or sixteen planes, to buy planes without serious combat capabilities, because the deterrent effect is gone. Second, dignity. It's that we buy abilities from an ally. You know from history that we've only fought on our own twice. This ally is a huge country with huge financial, economic and military-technical capabilities. With this ally, we have common plans, we have a common defence policy, and when it comes to it, this ally has the opportunity to participate in the recovery of losses. There's always losses in one conflict. This ally has the opportunity, if we need it, to further provide combat capabilities.. aircraft, rockets and whatever you want. This is quite strong and this should be considered as dignity. When we buy a modern plane with fifth generation technology, we don't have to modernize it in the next five or ten years because it has exceptional modern radar, and the others don't have it. If we have to in five or ten years, how much money are we gonna pay? These planes will have to be on the ground so that colleagues can come, put in new radars, connect them into all the familiarization systems, weapons and so on. It costs money, it takes time. The next positive thing is that we will get a wonderful preparation of flight and engineering technical staff, because the people who will prepare us are the people who have participated in missions with hundreds of combat missions behind their backs. It's one thing to graduate from journalism, it's another to be a famous journalist who's been practicing for a long time. We can't measure this and put it in a computer, but it's definitely something serious and positive, because we know what the so-called know-how is doing today's air fight by people who actually did it. I don't want to continue my speech any longer, but to come back again, I appreciate the debate. There could be fewer emotions, there could be serious suggestions. I wouldn't mind there being proposals, too, to clearly and categorically state: no, we do not want to conclude a treaty with the United States of America, we want to go with Sweden or Italy. Then we'll do analysis, decipher and say here from the stands in how long and what planes will be purchased with what combat capabilities. Then will we go back to the United States to get all this equipment and weaponry, which makes the jet fighter plane in a modern combat system?! I didn't hear such suggestions. That is why, personally, as a person has been for decades in the Air Force, I will support with a pure heart ratification because I know that these boys and girls who serve in the Bulgarian Army need a parliament that thinks clearly, wisely, who works for sovereign Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u119	Thank you, Mr. General. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u120	Mr. President of the National Assembly, fellow ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Deputy Ministers! Today we are about to take a decisive step towards the modernization of the Bulgarian army. It's a modernization that's been talked about for over 12 years, but it's all talked about. For better or for worse it has happened that the three modernisation projects take place in the mandate of this government and of this Parliament. Modernization, which has long been expected by the Bulgarian Army and the entire Bulgarian society. From this point of view, for me, the elementary populism of calculating how much leva this would increase the pension is simply untenable. I have said another time from this tribune: there is no prosperous country that has no reliable security and a reliable army, and the reliable army does not only with an increase in wages, which this government does twice. The reliability of the Bulgarian Army depends on the armaments and equipment we will give to our soldiers from the soldier to the general in order to be able to fulfil their constitutional duties, to protect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Bulgaria. Unfortunately, in this debate, I've heard a lot of unnecessary things. I have attended many debates in this Parliament and as an ordinary MP and as vice-president, and now as a minister, but to compare and bring in the topic "Spearevski" and an American plane is stupid. Spisarevski "this great Bulgarian pilot, who sacrificed his life for the protection of Sofia, managed the most modern aircraft of his time" Messerschmitt 109 E. [[Replications by MP Pavel Shopov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u121	Mr. Shopov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u122	Who knows how much, Mr. Shopov, came to the Commission two days ago. The Messerschmitt 109 is the most modern aircraft in Europe for its time. However, this did not prevent his colleagues from then fighting against Germany in the final phase of the war with the same German planes. So there shouldn't be an ideology here if the plane is Soviet, Swedish, American. Many fairy tales were spoken: this was not European, we are Europeans with examples of the kind of airplanes they use in France, in Italy, in Spain, but they produce them. If the Bulgarian Parliament had used its time in the last 30 years and in the direction of how to develop our aviation industry, perhaps we would have produced airplanes like some other Eastern European countries, but we are not doing this, but we are dealing with empty talk, wasting time and cheap populism, unfortunately. The plane wasn't made. I can tell you that after MiG 21, F-16 is the most produced plane in the world. But he was from sixty-something years old. He and Mercedes have a model of sixty-something years, but they have a last model. With these financial opportunities Bulgaria has in all three projects for modernization of aviation, fleet and ground troops, this choice of aircraft as technical qualities is the best choice. Some say, why didn't we buy an F-35? Because it is much more expensive and we will have to wait for it for a long time, as the queue before us stated as users of this plane there are many people. However, they imposed conditions that were not acceptable, namely, that they could stop delivery. I set it as an example in the Defence Committee: look at Turkey, then it didn't happen, it happened the next day. Although Turkey is involved in the F35 project because of the policy that is being conducted and assessed as hostile, the United States has stopped the project. Wasn't it the same during the Soviet Union? Would we have received in 1989 for MiG-29, if one month before we received them, we had said that we would enter NATO, we would not have received them. Let's not speculate on these things that look very frappanimous to people, but they're actually consistent when similar arms deals take place. No one would supply an armed state that passes into the other camp. I hope that Bulgaria does not have such intentions. Therefore, there is no danger that we will not receive the delivery of these planes. Everything else is speculation. Let's postpone six months and start over. Several times this exercise for the modernization of the army has been done and so 11 years. If it's God's wish today, we'll take the first step. Eleven years we've been procrastinating to make better conditions, better negotiations. Conditions don't get any better. The prices are getting more expensive. This is the natural course of things whether the armament is Swedish, Soviet, American, French, or whatever the prices are rising. Just for reference, I don't know why my colleagues didn't say it, who were campaigning for the Grimpen. For a year, the maintenance of aircraft, which they offered in 2016 from 18m euros per year, jumped to 40m euros per year. You see, it's not just one of the manufacturers that's growing up there, too. That's the trend. This shows the Department of Defense's expertise. If you go online, you can check it out whether it's true or not. So it's about time we stopped delaying. But it could be better, it could be worse. There's a reserve in that amount. What has not been said is that, on a proposal from the State Department, we expect a Congressional decision of about 60 million. dollars to help buy these planes. If this decision goes through the American Congress, it's practically not going to be the price, but it's going to fall by about 110 million. lv. And this is the result of the efforts of those people that someone in this room accused of not doing their job well. That's not fair. The people of all four departments that conducted the negotiations have made the most and they are not responsible that we have no history of our relationship to purchase American technology and we cannot obtain the conditions that other countries that are old customers receive. That's the practice. Take one Slovakia supplied payment because they have their history in these trade relationships. This is the first time we've taken a similar step. Dear colleagues, I think that if we concentrate on the needs of the army and the needs of the defence of Bulgaria, and not around the attempts to bring out cheap political dividends, because neither pensions nor wages are dependent on it, if we create conditions for higher gross domestic product and more jobs, people's income will increase. They don't depend on whether we buy armored machines, planes or ships. I also said in the Defence Committee: I am convinced that if the BSP were in power, they would buy the same plane. Not only because the last Minister of Defence, who was from BSP, Angel Naydenov, said: this is the situation because with the purchase of F-16 Block 70 we will be the first country in the Balkans to have, albeit eight, such planes. After we started negotiations, Romania, although it purchased the old F-16, began talks with the United States about the same plane. Greece, which has a huge amount of F-16 Block 50, enters into a contract to modernise these old planes to Block 70 to catch up with what we have. Croatia has suspended talks with Israel on the old F-16 and they are buying the same plane. Slovakia, which, like us for several years, has been swaying what move to take, has also signed a contract for the same plane, so no speculation should be made. It doesn't matter to me what manufacturer the technique is, because as I am now saying that F-16 Block 70 is needed by our air force, in the same way I say that the maintenance of MiG-29 and SW-25 is important for the same air force. I don't know if the plane was made in Russia or America. If the technique is necessary and is useful, it must be maintained or, in the particular case, purchased. The resources of our fighters at our disposal are coming to an end. They're now 30 years old. How many more years do we have to postpone? Have a life until 2029. ..the maximum, and that is roughly linked to the deadline within which the second part of the deal will arrive for the next eight. I want to thank everyone for the debate. I thank those who will support the ratification of the treaty, because I believe that when it comes to the Bulgarian Army, when it comes to the security and sovereignty of Bulgaria, we should not be divided. I've said it a thousand times from this tribune: we shouldn't go left and right. We must reflect on the pragmatic interest of our security, and the pragmatic interest of our security dictates that we modernise our army something that has not been done for 30 years. Thirty years for one reason or another, for one reason or another, we cut, destroy, put our planes on the village megdani or sell them for pennies. In this case, I will give you only one example: from 40 SW 25 aircraft, now we have 14, the same thing happened with MiG-21; and with MiG-23; and with the SS 23 rockets; and with one part of the helicopters. That is the problem, and since we have come to this situation, we must modernise our armed forces. The decision for F-16 Block 70 is a correct solution in favour of the modernization of our army and the capabilities of our military aviation. Thank you for your attention. I suppose common sense will prevail over thin political accounts. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u123	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Mareshki, Deputy Prime Minister Karakachanov has graduated. The speeches are over. General Stoykov, the commander of the Air Force, wanted to speak. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u124	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers, deputy ministers, Mr. General Botsev! I have an answer to many of the questions that were asked during the debates, but as far as I can tell from them, the answers were clear. Rather, they were held to have debates on this important modernization project for the country and the Air Force Commander is not going to violate the requirements of the participation of soldiers in such debates, especially the Air Force Commander, because we are called upon to defend democracy, but not to practice it. And for this very reason, I would like to present to your attention the following fact: We've scored 30 years since MiG-29 was acquired. This occasion is as good as it is and not as good as it is, because in those 30 years we did not get any modernization of the fighter aircraft, the MiG-23 and MiG 21 planes were shut down. Moreover, another important point is that during this period, despite the beautiful and wonderful opportunities of MiG-29, it cannot compensate for the technological standstill of the Bulgarian Air Force and the Bulgarian Army. With this, I would like to emphasise the extreme need for the modernization project, which will be voted on today, and to continue with the practical steps in its absorption. The plane is nice, with great capabilities, with absolutely all systems that make it operationally compatible. Pilots and engineering and technical staff will receive training that will enable them to exploit it with its full capabilities, and I have no doubt on that, as we have had specific conversations with those who will train them. Therefore, I thank you for the support of both the government and the parliament, which, I suppose, will vote positively for the project concerning the modernisation of the Bulgarian Air Force and the Bulgarian Army, because we are thereby expanding the capabilities of the entire Bulgarian Army. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u125	Thank you, dear General Stoykov. Mr. Mareshki, please come in the manner of conduct. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Mareshki, you can only make a remark to me. If you touch on another matter, I'll take your word away. [[The National Representative Veselin Mareshki spoke to President Emil Hristov outside the microphones.]] What's the matter? Make a remark to me in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u126	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I understand that democracy is such that every MP and minister has the right to go out and say whatever they want, has the immunity...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u127	In the manner of conduct, dear Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u128	...but when this high tribune tells classic lies, I'm gonna ask you to...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u129	Mr. Mareshki, this is not an address to me. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u130	I'm asking you to interrupt the speeches when you're talking classic lies from...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u131	I'm sorry, but that's not an address to me. Make a note of it!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u132	I'm making a remark to you, when you hear classic lies from the stands, to interrupt them. It's about the fact that we can't talk about this money...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u133	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. You're going into another aspect!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u134	...will not harm Bulgaria. I'm saying what's the lie you should be interrupting...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u135	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u136	Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u137	Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u138	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is the way it is. You, as Chairman, should take measures when a parliamentary group is disrespectful to deputy prime ministers, to ministers and to the entire National Assembly. Although this position they've taken is clear...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u139	Thank you, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u140	...thanks to her survive both business and politics.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u141	Thank you. We are voting on the draft. They voted 210 MPs: 124, against 83, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. [[Woman cheering from GERB.]] For the record, Professor Gechev voted against. His card couldn't replicate the vote. [[Noise, lines.]] I give the floor for a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I voted against this deal because I am aware of what it means in practice a head in front of another country and fulfilling its conditions, surrender of national interest, waste of huge public resources at a time when nearly 50% of the Bulgarians are barely surviving. Poor Bulgaria, the poorest in the European Union, has just fed rich America billions. President Trump will probably thank us, colleagues, thank you for helping him find four thousand new jobs. Who did you work for today? Where are you in Washington or Sofia? [[Noise, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u143	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u144	The whole Bulgarian people have just seen that Volya is the only party that consistently defends the interest of Bulgarian citizens because the colleagues who have now joined our position that we should not buy these planes have kept silent for two years. I want to tell you that...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u145	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u146	...the interest of the Bulgarian people are currently not these planes, colleagues. They don't want billions for expensive planes. Very interesting how will you explain tomorrow to all the sick children and their parents why the state has no money for treatment and there are billions for airplanes? How do you explain to the poor pensioners that they have to keep squandering because there's no money for them, and there's money for airplanes? Perhaps you'll give the staff of the Vidin hospital, who resigned at once because of low pay and bad conditions! And most importantly, how do you explain that poor Bulgaria buys more expensive than all other countries richer than us? Or do you not think you owe someone an explanation? We at WALK appreciate the negotiations on this deal not only as a robbery, but as a complete failure. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done! That is why we want the resignations of those responsible who could not hold the negotiations properly. But the most important thing that has become clear today is what your leader has been repeating for a long time...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u147	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u148	...that in fact the small coalition IMRO and DPS is GERB's partner in the management of the state. [[Claps from the Bulgarian Rhodophilizers.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u149	Thank you. Professor Stanilov, the negative vote. I'll give you my word, General Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u150	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I voted against it with the arguments of my colleagues at Ataka but I am going out on the stand to highlight the main argument for me that I voted on. We, of all candidates, of all applying companies, countries and so on, bought the only plane that could carry nuclear weapons and opened the door for the presence of nuclear weapons in Bulgaria. That's my main argument. And as a consequence of all this is seen the formation of a new, very exotic coalition on the one hand, VMRO and GERB, on the other hand, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u151	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. You have the floor, General Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly propose a procedure for the second vote on the bill which has just been examined.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u153	I understand, Mr. General.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u154	I propose a procedure for rereading the ratification law. [[Laughter and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u155	I hear you, Mr. General, I'm going to re-vote. [[Radio.]] Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u156	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! The practice is that when it comes to contracts, the two readings pass in one session. But this is not a matter of any contract, of a simple case, of an ordinary case, of a historical act, of an extremely important decision, and we should not rush and push things over. Perhaps some would like to report the task to the masters and by a second vote quickly to the payment, because it will be after that. Someone seems to want to get their money. That's understandable to them, and in years to deliver our planes. I think the real debate in society is starting now. The real debate in society is coming. Today at the gym...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u157	Mr. Shopov, your arguments against the proposal for a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u158	...excellent arguments have been made. The debate was at a high level, the responsible Bulgarian political forces and politicians outlined. Let the Bulgarians judge them as they see fit and judge us by what is happening in the Chamber. That is why I am of the contrary opinion that we should not vote today on the treaty at second reading and I call on all responsible Bulgarian politicians to oppose Mr. Popov's procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u159	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Konstantin Popov for a second vote on the bill. Vote 187 MPs: 124, against 59, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Mr. General, if you'd like to introduce us to the texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! THE LAW OF THE for the ratification of an international contract (LOA) BU-D-SAB Art. 1. Ratigating an international contract (LOA) BU-D-SAB "Airplanes F-16 Block 70 and related support" (F-16 Block 70 aircraft and associated support), signed on 3 July 2019 at the Airbase "Wright Patterson" of the Air Force (Air Force) of the United States, Ohio, USA, and 11 July 2019 in the city of Wright Patterson. Sofia, Republic of Bulgaria. Art. 2. Ratiments international contract (LOA) BU-D-AAA "Boesources in support of F-16" (Mounitions in support of the F-16), signed on 12 June 2019 at the Airbase "Wright Patterson" of the US Air Force, Ohio, USA, and 11 July 2019 in the city of Sofia. Sofia, Republic of Bulgaria. Art. 3. Rated international contract (LOA) BU-P-AAD "Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II rockets related materials and services" (Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II Missiles, Associated material and services), signed on 13 June 2019 in the city of Sofia. Washington, USA, and on 11 July 2019 in the city of D.C. Sofia, Republic of Bulgaria. Art. 4. Ratification of an international contract (LOA) BU-P-LAR "Multifunctional Information Distribution System Joint Tactical Radio System (MIDS JTRS) (5) and related support and equipment" (Multifunctional Information Distribution System Joint Tactical Radio System (MIDS JTRS) (5) and related support and equipment), signed on 14 June 2019 in the city of Sofia. Washington, USA, and on 11 July 2019 in the city of D.C. Sofia, Republic of Bulgaria. Art. 5. Contracts under art. 4 shall not be promulgated in the Official Journal. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u161	Thank you, General Popov. Colleagues, I'm voting on the text presented to you... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You have no right to procedure. For the record... [[(Noise by BSP for Bulgaria.) A line from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski:]] Wait a minute, I'm reading right now. Sit down, I'll give you the floor. For the record, add the English name of each of the contracts to the title, as I read at the beginning of the meeting. Statements? Mr. Shopov, you wanted the floor. Here you go, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! What became clear after the first vote on this ratification? It became clear that we should feel pride, as colleagues from GERB say here. Pride must test the American side. They open up 4,000 new jobs. The American country is developing its business. I think that on yesterday I read somewhere that in another new factory of Lokheed Martin "will have a respectable presence, a high-level visit by President Trump" to support the workers. With this decision, we supported the workers in America. [[Replications from the MPs Valentin Radev and Plamen Manushev.]] We made America great like this. I also asked the question, which I put to my first vote, about the free American bases that are available here in Bulgaria. Why didn't we just make sure that the planes that we have now allocated these billions to are actually given to us at a symbolic price or even without money? Because the rent that the American state pays for its bases all over the world, if you compare it to those bases we have here, that's billions. About 3 billion is what they're supposed to give us as rent. There is such a procedure that America pays rent for the bases it uses all over the world. This, here in Bulgaria, did not happen and this opportunity was not used. Mr. Karakachanov, at the beginning of this year, a reporter from the TV station, Alpha, asked you the question: will you put the topic of free American bases as an argument in the negotiations that are being conducted with the US country? Then you said: "Yes, I will ask this question. " - I have no information to have put it or at least there are no visible results from this. My request to the media, which will reflect today's meeting, should not be: The National Assembly agreed to buy these fighters. The correct way to transmit the information from today is: GERB, IMRO and DPS voted Bulgaria to be enslaved with this billion loan.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u163	Don't suggest...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u164	I'll take the opportunity that I'm on the stand, not to take the floor again. I propose a procedure, Mr President: the vote that will now be made at second reading and thus will be definitively adopted this ratification with the American side, to be clearly, by roll call, by standing on the spot. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I listened to all the speeches at first reading of each of you I saw his personal conviction about the position he is taking. There should be no concern to stand up, you read his name and he should state his position on the matter. This is our proposal. I hope you will support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u165	I'll put to the vote your procedural proposal, Mr. Chukolov. [[Replications from the MPs Hristo Gazhev and Dimitar Lazarov.]] Are there any lines? I won't. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u166	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Bulgaria cannot modernise its army for three decades. In the last two years, two years and something really in the Bulgarian state the government has made Bulgaria have a strong and modern army. There are political parties in the Bulgarian Parliament that are against this! Even though everyone recorded it in their program! Both Volya Party and BSP, including our coalition partners, have signed a management program with GERB, where it is indicated for re-arming, modernization and so on. There is no political party that hasn't been behind this. Today, however, we see different opinions, perhaps dictated by some parties protecting foreign national interests. Because in Volya party there are MPs who dream of Bulgaria to merge with another country! And that's what's blowing. For them, of course, it is not good for the Bulgarian army to be strong and modern. It is not good for the incomes in the Bulgarian Army to increase as in recent years! It is not good for the Bulgarian soldier to be equipped! To have new uniforms, as in recent years! For the first time in the Bulgarian Army there are more incoming than leaving in 30 years! What does that tell you? This shows that the Bulgarian army is starting a new life, a life that should normally lead every army! [[Noise and lines.]] It must be secured, modernized, have specialists, have trained staff so that it can protect the national interests of the state, protect Bulgaria. And those who don't support that do the opposite. They say, "We don't need a strong army, we don't need planes, we don't need ships, we don't need land equipment. We just need to make a policy and like each other! " - That's why you are politicians - to take political responsibility. To go out and say: a part of society may not approve of this, but we, as politicians, are obliged to protect the national security of the state! Do it. Why don't you? I'm listening to my colleagues from Ataka. Who's a match for this proposal, Mr. Chukolov? Isn't he your Minister of Ataka? Well, take your trust out of him! Isn't he a collaborator? Have your colleagues not voted on the parliamentary committees for the changes? They voted last year. How come you suddenly don't like what your minister has to offer you? Well, he's your minister! Why hasn't he agreed free planes or better economic parameters to produce a part in Bulgaria? He's the Minister of Economy! Isn't it from Attack? How are you against the public?! Your minister is offering it, and you are against it! Congratulations! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u167	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u168	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, fellow ministers! In order not to continue this rhetoric in the coalition, let's make something clear. By decision of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Economy, respectively the Minister of Economy, is appointed to conduct the talks about industrial co-operation. I will report on the Framework Agreement on Industrial Cooperation. But together with all the ministers that we have been appointed by a decision of the Council of Ministers, we have submitted the proposal for this particular package of airplanes. Now I want to say my personal opinion. Me and the Ministry of Airplane Economy do not understand, but we have the full confidence of the experts who have worked and considered that this is the best package, the best conditions at this time. I have full confidence in them, and if you ask me again, I will re-submit their report to the Council of Ministers to be examined. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u169	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Simeonov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u170	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Angelov, I'm taking a line of your speech. It is true that youth is more violent and unabstainable, but it seems to me that you should not have allowed good tone to pass. In this case, you have even allowed yourself a slight manipulation because I have personally signed this Management Program and I will not give up my signature or what we have agreed to do in the interest of the state. In the program it is written that modernization of the army should be carried out, and no one escapes from this commitment. But there is no record that it should be on the most expensive plane, under humiliating conditions for the Republic of Bulgaria. That's one. The second, I did not like this sentence in your speech that almost everyone who does not support the proposed decision of the National Assembly serves the interests of foreign countries. I think that at least I or my colleagues from the National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria can be blamed for serving the interests of foreign countries. [[Radio and lines from DPS.]] Yes, I see the pro-Turkish party resents it, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u171	Please, dear Mr. Simeonov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u172	And in Turkey's interest is also this bill. In this regard, I would like to remind you, I want to protect both you and all the halvemouth haters that the National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria is neither pro-American nor pro-Russian party and will tell the truth in the eyes of both of them and others. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Last sentence, if I may. When I personally and my colleagues took the liberty of putting Gundyaev as Patriarch Kiril here in Bulgaria, who taught us the history of Bulgaria, you of IMRO came out with a declaration against this. So at least you can blame us for serving the interest of a foreign country.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u173	Thank you. You don't have a line. That was... [[Noise and lines.]] Which line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u174	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, Mr. Angelov! As a regular voter in Bulgaria during the election campaign, the only thing I could hear in all the media was BGN 300. pension. That's what I remember! [[Replys from DPS: "Precisely! "]] Maybe there was...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u175	Please, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u176	...the modernization of the army. There may have been, I'm not saying she wasn't there, but you didn't advertise it to your constituents. You didn't talk, you didn't come forward to remember you, your voters to know you did. Let's be honest with the Bulgarian citizens and especially you to your voters to say that you lied to them, to tell them that you had previously negotiated the new coalition, which has now become evident, the new United Patriarchs. Thank you. More honesty and honesty! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u177	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Is there a third line? I can't see. You have the floor for the back, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u178	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Mareshki, if someone is lying all the time, you can draw conclusions about who they are. You claimed today that you would not even be present in the voting room because the treaty was shameful and disgraceful, and you were present despite the position you had taken. It is always convenient for you, this posture! And you know that well, don't you? The other thing I can tell you. Those who lie have recorded in their election programs with which they have entered the parliament, like your party, that they will want in the three kind of troops modernisation and re-arming. You wrote it in your program. And then that's not what you're saying! I mean, who's lying? Or is it just half a summer you're not here in Parliament because you're on the front line of the beach, and today you came and decided to show up and talk again? That's normal for you. That's clear to everyone. It was also seen in the election. People found out who was lying and who wasn't. You've been greatly evaluated despite the great organization you've made. To Mr. Simeonov. If I had anything to do with you or the NFSB party personally, I'd apologize. But I, saying that by not supporting this, serve other interests - whether indirectly or intentionally - is another matter. I have referred to two or three parties in parliament on purpose, specifically, which defend such parties, but I have not indicated NFSB.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u179	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Statements? There was a procedure before that. [[Noise and lines.]] Wait! I saw there was a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Noise and lines.]] Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 55, para. 2, p. 3 I am doing a procedure to end the debates and move on to the vote. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u181	Is there a reverse opinion? Mr. Kutev, you have the opposite opinion, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u182	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The idea of ending speeches thus, by the way, is contrary in principle to parliamentary practice and should not be a part of what is happening in any parliament at all. Because parliament is a place for debate. And that's why he was created. If he loses his meaning in a place of debate and for expressing opinions, he loses all sense of gathering. So this is one of the shortcuts to nullify the Constitution of the State by stopping the debates. Which is exactly what you're doing right now is a way to stop them. I am convinced that there will be at least 10 more speeches. I guarantee it, if not more. By the way, one of them would be me. Because there are things to say! The most important thing is that when you stop the debate now, you provide yourself with the opportunity to spend about 3 billion. lv. of the Bulgarian taxpayer without even being discussed to the end! Just a few days ago, you stopped funding the parties, given that the parties for their entire life of existence since the 19th century did not spend as much money as...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u183	Mr. Kutev!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u184	... today you are voting even for one day without leaving time for first and second readings without letting the debate develop! This is a practice that in a parliament should not have a place.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u185	Mr. Kutev, I'm going to ask you for the arguments against the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u186	That's the argument! You can't stop the debate when you're spending billions! To say that there will be no debate in the Chamber because, you see, Mr. Ivanov is bored or hungry?!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u187	What's the difference between first and second readings?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u188	You have plenty of time to visit all the places in the hall, in the building that you are short. [[Noise and lines.]] You have no reason purely from the point of view of parliamentary practice to end debates, especially when it comes to billions of citizens' pocket. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] By the way, it's billions... I'm done, Mr. Chairman. These are billions that not only ours, but your constituents have sent you here to spend not on this.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u189	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. [[Noise and lines.]] I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Stanislav Ivanov. Vote 202 MPs: 126, against 75, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Let's move on to the vote. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u190	I'm gonna do a procedure for how to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u191	Today is your day on this subject, Mr. Popov. I checked with the contents of art. 67 of our rules. There is no reason under this article to put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Desislav Chukolov. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the draft Law presented to you by the National Representative Konstantin Popov... [[Noise, lines and banging on banks from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'll give you my word, not now. Please, guys! [[Noise and lines.]] In the manner of conduct after the vote, Mr. Jablyanov. I'm already in the process of voting. [[noise, lines and banging on banks from BSP for Bulgaria............................................................................................]] of the text of the Law, which was presented to you by the MP Konstantin Popov. [[Noise, lines and banging on banks from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We vote on the Law in its full text. [[Noise and lines.]] They voted 203 MPs: for 123, against 78, abstention 2. [[Applause from GERB.]] The motion is accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] You asked for the floor of the pro-vote procedure, you have the floor, dear Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u192	Christov, get to class! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will not abuse this procedure, but you have given sufficient reason for it to be done. I do not know what is due to your activity today to participate in the work of the National Assembly from the place you occupy. However, I counted at least three of your interventions, not on the subject of discipline, rudely speaking, but on the content, without reason. You have repeatedly broken the Rules, trying to limit the discussion and correct the opinions of the MPs, to pressure them to replace their express means when they have not used offensive words or qualifications. The only motive for this, at least I got the impression, was that what they were saying didn't match your pre-written score. Please stick to the rules! You are currently chairing the National Assembly, but you must provide conditions for the discussion. You should have put the procedure in place for voting, not referring to a Rule of Procedure, which allows for a ambiguous interpretation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u194	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. I'm entitled to an answer. I don't have a score. You know that perfectly well. I've always tried to follow the rules. [[Noise and lines.]] I see you, Mr. Simeonov. As for the motion for a vote, I really ask you to read very carefully art. 67 of the Rules of Procedure and you will understand my grounds for not having the right, not the desire, to put it to the vote. Mr. Simeonov, come in for a negative vote procedure, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u195	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The negative vote is on the occasion of.. I will not point out the arguments that were put forward before this and which I myself have also pointed out as a basis for the negative vote, but I would like to inform you that, following the clarification of the chair of the meeting, I have received the basis for another reason to vote against........................................................................ It was stated that all names would be read according to English transcription rules in English. I don't think that's acceptable! I think that in Bulgaria reading foreign letters should be according to the rules of reading Latin. And then I have to tell you that I have received the second extremely serious reason to vote against. Well, look at the name of the second contract: BU-D-AAA, as I read it, and another one. Read according to the rules of reading Latin, it would sound like a Buddhist. I'm not a fool! [[Noise, lines, laughter.]] I don't want to be made a chump, so I voted against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u196	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Negative vote, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u197	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Naturally, there are far more serious reasons, and since the time of our group is short, I will now expose you to only one of them. The legislation of the United States is such that we do not wish it on any American firm, but if you do not give yourself a god, Lokheed Martin is bankrupt, our money is sinking. No one is responsible for the payment we're going to make. I'm saying this from a personal example because I bought something from the states, I paid for it in advance, they seem to like it that way, and then the firm disappeared and my money went down. But now it's not my money, and I can't put them in the same way at that risk. Now we are talking about the money of every Bulgarian citizen. That is precisely one of the arguments with which we did not support this deal. Naturally, the rest are no less important: expensive, advance payment, does not meet absolutely any requirements that were laid down two years ago, and which explain to us that only because of this and only because we will buy it postponed, deferred and this will not prevent other projects in Bulgaria, not only in the military sphere, this thing is still happening today. Not only will it prevent all other modernizations, all other spheres in Bulgaria, and we do not have the money. Let's just say we have the money now, given that we are going out and issuing debt, a debt that we are issuing on behalf of every Bulgarian citizen. This is not the pure truth and this should be known by every Bulgarian citizen. We issue a debt not for the Bulgarians to live better, but for a true statesman in America, such as Trump, to say: here I, with the help of Bulgaria, helped you Americans to live better. Think a lot about what I've told you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u198	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LEGISLATION FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE STATE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA This Regulation Importer is the Council of Ministers on 15 July 2019. Ms. Stoyanova, you have the floor to present the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[People's representatives are leaving the Chamber.]] I see the gym's leaving, but, you know, if there's no money for what you've voted on so far... [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u200	Guys, please be quiet! If you're going to leave, leave.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u201	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 902-01-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 July 2019. At a meeting held on 17 July 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by the representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Vladislav Goranov, Minister, Diana Dragneva, Director of the Department of Legal Affairs; of the Ministry of Defence: Lieutenant General Atanas Zaprianov Deputy Minister; of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Emilia Kraleva Deputy Minister, Ivan Naydenov Permanent Secretary; of the Ministry of Economy: Lachezar Borisov Deputy Minister. The bill was presented by Minister Goranov. The Law aims to finance the acquisition of a new type of combat aircraft by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. The update of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 provides the necessary resource of 2 billion. 100 million. lv. An essential point in the financial model of this contract is the method of payment that provides for the fixed price (cash with acceptance) specified in the international treaties with the US Government to be deposited entirely within a short period of time after their signature on the Federal Government's account. There is no other way of payment, as so far the Bulgarian state has not had large supplies of arms from the United States of America. The funds deposited will be used by the United States Agency for Defence and Security Cooperation to make payments in the course of the implementation of the treaties. The conditions of the US military sales programme (FMS) allow, after the transfer by the Ministry of Defence at the expense of the US Government, the amounts for the implementation of the contracts for the acquisition of a new type of military aircraft, a part of them to be deposited and invested through bank and investment accounts at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to provide income from these funds for the benefit of the Bulgarian State. The process of opening accounts and transferring funds usually takes about 6 months. The realization of this opportunity requires the conclusion of an agreement between the Ministry of Defence, the US Agency for Defence and Security Cooperation and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, which may be attended by the Bulgarian National Bank as an agent of the state. Standard funds are invested in overnight deposits and low-risk short-term federal Treasury bonds with different periods. In the event of a possible implementation of the described possibility, it could be expected that the State would realise investment revenues with a net yield of about 1.5 percent if there were no significant changes in current market conditions. This financial model for the implementation of the Project for Investment Expenditure "Acquiring of a new type of combat aircraft" in implementation of the National Assembly Decision of 16 January 2019 requires the provision of additional costs above those approved by the National Assembly by the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 which requires the drafting and offering of a Draft for amendment and supplement of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019. In view of the above conditions, the arrangements reached with regard to the price of the package on the transaction, which amounts to 2 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, calculated at an estimated exchange rate of BGN against the US dollar of BGN 1.75 per dollar, as well as taking into account the additional expectations of the Ministry of Defence, the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 is proposed to increase the cost of the budget of the Ministry of Defence for 2019 by 2 billion. 100 million. leva. At the same time, the Bill also proposes a reduction in expenditure on the state budget. It is planned in the estimates of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 of a total amount of 271 million. lv. for the implementation of other projects for modernization of the Bulgarian Army not to be spent in this year. Taking into account the net increase in expenditure on the state budget of 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. The Bill amending and supplementing the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 provides for an increase in the government budget deficit by 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible The Commission therefore concludes The estimates prepared for the basic parameters of the consolidated fiscal programme provide that the budget balance under the consolidated fiscal programme for 2019 will be negative at 2 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Following the discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 902-01-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u202	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Next, a report from the Defence Committee. Here you are, Admiral Manushev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u203	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 902-01-37, submitted to the National Assembly by the Council of Ministers on 15 July 2019. At its meeting held on 17 July 2019, the Defence Committee discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 902-01-37, submitted to the National Assembly by the Council of Ministers on 15 July 2019. The meeting was attended by Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov, Deputy Finance Minister Rositsa Velkova and Deputy Defence Minister Atanas Zaprianov. Deputy Minister of Finance Rositsa Velkova explained the reasons for the bill. She pointed out that the proposal of the Council of Ministers to amend the state budget for 2019 refers to a change of indicators in its spending area, with the need for changes related to the implementation of a decision of the National Assembly of 16 January 2019 on the acquisition of new multi-purpose fighter planes F-16 Block 70 for the Bulgarian Army. An increase in capital expenditure of the Ministry of Defence's budget for 2019 is proposed by 2 billion. 100 million. lv. In addition, a cost reduction of 271 million is proposed. BGN provided for in the state budget for 2019 to finance the other two modernization projects of the Bulgarian Army, the conditions for which will not be available during this year. In this regard, and as a consequence, relevant changes to certain basic budgetary parameters such as the amount of public expenditure, budgetary balance and others relevant to compliance with the numerical fiscal rules are also required. The net increase in expenditure on the state budget amounts to 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that With this increase, the government budget deficit, which will amount to 2 billion. The Commission Three hundred thousand. lv. As a result of these changes, the budget balance of the consolidated fiscal programme for 2019 will change, with the expected deficit of 2 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, lv. or 2.1 per cent of the estimated gross domestic product, which determines and remains the deficit of the sector The Deputy Minister pointed out that the increased defence spending in 2019 is a single measure by the government and does not lead to a change in the structural balance and compliance with the medium-term budgetary objective for Bulgaria. It has no bearing on our country's fiscal position either. The conclusion is that the cash costs to be incurred for 2019 for the acquisition of the aircraft will not increase the costs of the government sector for the current year and will therefore not lead to a deterioration of the budget balance. The terms of the United States programme for foreign military sales (FMS) were further explained in detail, which allowed after the transfer by the Ministry of Defence on the U.S. Government's account of the amounts for the implementation of the contracts for the acquisition of a new type of combat aircraft, a part of them to be deposited and invested through bank and investment accounts at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to provide profitability in favour of the Bulgarian State. The technology for making payments and means of realising the possible yield was indicated. A question to the MP Milen Mihov about the possibility of a certain reduction in costs due to a possible favourable change in the US dollar's course was given the necessary clarifications and it was noted that a more real opportunity for profitability was the practice of investing the amount deposited under the contract through the relevant financial instruments in low risk operations. A question by the present MP Pavel Shopov for a response to the disagreements raised in the Ministry of Finance regarding the financing of the purchase of airplanes, for which he has information, was answered negatively. It was stated that in the preliminary talks and during the negotiations themselves, the Ministry of Finance had asked a number of supplementary questions to the Ministry of Defence and to the US side, which was answered in due course. In conclusion, the Chairman of the Defence Commission Konstantin Popov noted the huge importance of the decision to finance the acquisition of new multi-purpose fighter planes F-16 Block 70 for the Bulgarian state, which will practically initiate the re-arming of the Bulgarian army and turn it into a modern force for the country's defence. Following the conclusion of the discussion, 21 MPs took part in the vote. The Defence Committee adopted the following opinion by 13 votes.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 902-01-37, submitted to the National Assembly by the Council of Ministers on 15 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u204	Thank you, Admiral Manushev. There are no reports from other committees. We are going to discuss the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 902-01-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 July 2019. I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Professor Gechev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, there is in principle nothing unusual in updating the budget when there are objective reasons. All over the world are updated budgets and updated in Bulgaria as well. The question is not so much why the budget is being updated, because if it is updated on important issues for the country, including national security, is welcome. The question is, under what conditions is an increase in the budget deficit, respectively the budget expenditure, and what are the guarantees on these costs? Because let's make some clarification, most likely, because colleagues from the Defence Committee and others are not specialists in this area, but it is not the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The name of the Federal Reserve System is the name of the Central Bank of the United States of America. And since there are 12 units, the most important and the biggest of them is in New York. So it's not a New York bank, it's part of the federal reserve system of the United States. But it's not that important. It is important to explain that this 2 billion. 300 million. lv. This has not been said so far from Bulgaria are being transferred to an account of the Ministry of Defence of the United States of America in this bank. Of course, the U.S. Department of Defense is part of their government, but it is very important to note that this amount is $2 billion. 300 million. lv. Close, they go to the Pentagon account. So this money for four years, they'll spin it around and use it for the defense purposes of the United States of America. And in four years, the implementation of this program will begin. That is, we are talking here about the effectiveness and appropriateness of the use of these budgetary resources. Secondly, unfortunately, I would like to distract the pink forecasts of how the Pentagon will invest some of these funds in government securities and Bulgaria would have a yield of a percentage and a half. No such thing, ladies and gentlemen! In the Treaty, the supplier party has not made such commitments. You really think we're gonna pay $2 billion? 300 million. lv. And the American side is going to start charging us interest? I want to reassure you that this will not happen because the net yield of such securities for Bulgaria from our Central Bank, where the fiscal reserve of Bulgaria is realized, the net income for ten years is negative! There's no way that's going to be a percentage and a half! Secondly, which is even worse, as this money goes there on account of the Ministry of Defence, it can, it is true if it buys government securities. Dear colleagues, in which state will they buy government securities? Bulgaria and Pakistan? No, quite logically and legally justified, they will buy the US government. And here it becomes interesting: the poorest country of the European Union, with the highest mortality rate, with the most spilled health care will finance, that is what you say, the government debt of the rich and highly developed country United States of America. And that is why we do not agree to advance the payment of 2 billion and 300 million against drawing and possibly obtaining the goods after four years. Because during this period we don't have planes, we don't have ammunition, but we paid 100% and we paid what? We cover the budget costs of our partner, the highly developed United States of America. Well, there is no such country but Bulgaria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u206	Thank you, Professor Gechev. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Are there any wishes from other parliamentary groups? I can't see. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u207	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! With the adoption of this update, it will take a moral right to say that there is no money for sick children, for disabled people, for hospitals that are in a miserable state, because if you do, you will have a higher form of political hypocrisy, in which you are very good.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u208	Thank you, Mr. Christov. That was a statement. Is there a line to it? I won't. To speak, Mr. Tsonev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u209	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I have positioned my statement on today's topic because it is common, in the part of a budget change quite consciously, because the main criticism of the Modernization Project concerning the purchase of a new type of combat plane is actually in the financial sphere. We DPS do not accept these criticisms for one single reason. They are based on another purpose, which we believe is not the real purpose of buying this plane. Yes, he will increase our combat capabilities, I mean the country. But where is this investment made, why is it done, how is it done and at what size? I will not open the hot water to you if I say that countries like Bulgaria cannot rely on a self-defense of sovereignty and national security. We never counted on her. It will be nothing new if I tell you that this is done in a well-established way and when we are talking about Euro-Atlantic values, Professor Gechev, I appeal to you for the simple reason that you have addressed us by asking: aren't Euro-Atlantic values and if you do this from Britain, France, Sweden and so on? Our main argument for us, of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, is that we must invest where the protection of our national security comes from. It comes from NATO and who is the senior partner in NATO? Great Britain and France, Germany and Sweden? Who's paying? For two years, since the beginning of the Trump era, the same question has been asked: who since 1945 has been paying the entire Masraf for the protection of NATO countries? The answer is very simple and there is no need to bury yourself either in Eurostat or in the budgets of NATO countries and in general of NATO. I've already done it. A huge, vast amount of this money comes from the American taxpayer and is at the expense of the American budget. And this country's military industrial complex produces almost all the equipment available in NATO countries. Of course, France has its share, Britain, Sweden and so on and so forth. It is no accident that President Trump raised the question: will the European countries pay for their national security, which we provide them with? Well, well, colleagues, we take it this way: we invest in the military industrial complex of the United States, because we wait from there to protect our national security, including the delivery of the aircraft in question. And until then we will be like this, so our national security will be guaranteed. Is there any doubt in this room that we currently have no military potential to defend ourselves against anyone? Is there any doubt in this House that after the Syrian and Ukrainian conflict, the dangers to Bulgaria's national security are multiplied by times? I won't, will I? So what are we supposed to do? In whose military industrial complex did we invest funds when we were a member of the Warsaw Treaty, I ask from this tribune? And here on the left, there are scary specialists on this subject. I'm saying it without irony. In whose military industrial complex did we invest Bulgaria, the People's Republic of Bulgaria then? Which one? Polish? [[Replications. From the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yeah, yeah, sure. When you look at things in detail, you will see that it is not Bulgarian. In the military industrial complex of the State, which was the leader of the Warsaw Treaty and which ensured the protection, sovereignty and national security of the Warsaw Treaty countries. We are doing the same now, honourable Members. We do not consider buying a new battle plane as an isolated phenomenon as an object. We see it as part of Bulgaria's strategy to secure reliable protection in NATO's collective security system by investing in the military industrial complex of the United States. Clearly, just to say this to the Bulgarian citizens. There is absolutely nothing reproachable, honourable colleagues on the left and on the right! On the contrary, this is the right policy, this is the right strategy for our country and for our national security, because we are really already in a region of serious conflicts and in a region of serious dangers. You have no doubt that the Black Sea is no longer what it was before the Ukrainian conflict? You have no doubt that it is not in the power of either Sweden or France or Britain or any European country to guarantee our national security with all my respect for them? We have long said that, and our Honorary Chairman Dr. Dogan, and we in declarations, in statements and in documents that Europe is an economic giant, but a military dwarf. And this is a fact, and it is recognised by all European leaders. It is not for a reason now that it is thought to be armed forces and collective security of the European Union. So this, today's act, is absolutely correct. Whether the price is that or that, it is an investment in the security of the state. Dear colleagues, national security is a very expensive product. Without it, there's no social security. Without it, there's no freedom, and freedom has no price. So here to measure with the spoon and the pharmacy scales something that we cannot measure is, to put it mildly, short-sightedly, and because this debate is being watched by Bulgarian citizens be absolutely certain that this time your social concern against the backdrop of national security will not be appreciated. I'm absolutely sure of that. The Bulgarian has always held on to the security of the state. And from this point of view, we will also support the change in budget. But here I'd like to open up a few side issues that aren't irrelevant at all. First, was it necessary to have a competition and such a procedure for something that concerns national security? Who needed it when our legislation permits direct negotiations? Why did that crappy fence that we built along the border have to be brought up with a change in the legislation of the Public Procurement Act and not have an auction and a competition for it, and for the planes, we had to conduct an auction and a competition with which we seriously insulted our partners? We have exposed the authority of the state and questioned other trade relations of Bulgaria. We at the DPS on the first day alerted that this was a wrong policy, that this was a misconceived act. It was clear, simple and without populism to explain to the Bulgarian people, Bulgarian citizens: this is Bulgaria's way of guaranteeing national security, territorial sovereignty and political sovereignty. That's the way! And that's why we're going to negotiate with the potential seller of the military industry complex of the United States and the government of the United States, first. Secondly, it is an internal policy issue. Second question. I turn to GERB: You honourable colleagues from GERB, from today's debate do you understand why you do not have a Euro-Atlantic government and a majority? Did you understand that the coalition you have established has nothing to do with the Euro-Atlantic orientation of Bulgaria? Do you understand that there are different arguments to be avoided? Did you find out that the crutch you used from Volya is a crutch of another country that we have to defend ourselves against? Do you really understand what betrayal you are committing and what great political responsibility you have for this coalition in front of our Euro-Atlantic partners and the entire Bulgarian people, to whom your abbreviation is also Citizens for the European Development of Bulgaria? When we talk to you like this, you think we're talking: We are talking about your responsibility as the greatest political force in front of our partners, which we rely on for the national sovereignty and territorial integrity of Bulgaria. With this kind of management, that's not gonna happen. For this reason, once again we pay attention to you. Think about the political responsibility to both Bulgarian citizens and our partners. These issues are extremely complex, they are monitored from the outside and this is the assessment of the stability of the state, stability of governance, trust. You're talking here: why are we paying ahead? Because he doesn't trust me. There is no confidence in political stability for our Euro-Atlantic orientation. You don't have that kind of trust! When they see what's happening here, our partners don't go forward, they're gonna want us to pay our bills twenty years ahead, because it's not clear in the next election who's gonna be elected, how the majority is gonna be here and what they're gonna do. You understand, Professor Gechev? You know what I mean. Financial transactions need trust. Our partners do not trust Bulgaria because of GERB in this case. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Yes, because of your choice. If it seems far-fetched to you, it seems the same to us, and to them it seems the same. One more question, we from the DPS receive modest thanks from GERB's leadership from time to time for supporting all decisions on our Euro-Atlantic solidarity, according to the budget Minister Goranov is here on financial stability. Colleagues from GERB, we do not want you to thank the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. [[Reply from GERB: "You want power! "]] We don't want power either. When we wanted it, we got it. [[Comments from GERB and OP.]] We want you to know that we're not doing this for you and the coalition you've formed. We are doing this for Bulgaria, for the security of Bulgaria, for the good of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u210	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? Line, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u211	Mr. Tsonev, I'm making a line for you. I agree with your statement, but by no means in its final part, and I am making a reply in that direction. Trust is the most important thing, trust in every field. You claim that we pay ahead because we do not trust. If you didn't have confidence, we wouldn't be buying American weapons at all and all the systems that are included in it. If you didn't trust me! But they do not have financial trust in us, because if for one reason or another the guarantor of this trust GERB is not in power in the next four years when the contract will be executed, it is not clear where these two billion will be directed or where they will be used. When we talk about responsibility, I want to clearly and categorically say that the most responsible political power, party, in this Parliament and in the country is GERB. [[Applause from GERB.]] Everyone else is practicing populists on our backs on all subjects. If we don't have this responsible attitude towards all the topics, because we run the country and we're not here for two years to spend the budget and go away, as some others do, there wouldn't be this deal today. I very much ask that it be clear who is responsible in this Chamber and thanks to whom things are happening in this Chamber and in the government. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u212	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Second line, Associate Professor Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonev, I was provoked by your speech for several reasons. First of all, you say that the Bulgarian state has no sovereignty.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u214	I didn't say.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u215	Yeah, that's what you said. Thanks to the government, Mr. Tsonev, because in the negotiations that were conducted to buy these planes, it also clearly and categorically demonstrated in the contracts that we have given up sovereign rights to protect our Bulgarian national interest. You, by the way, are forgetting one more important thing: that the common collective security and defence in NATO, before we get to the collective security to which Bulgaria should also contribute, first, the Bulgarian state must build sufficient opportunities and potential, and you reject this thing. As I understand it, since we have to invest in another country, it is best to close down the army and start paying directly for national security and sovereignty and protection of territorial integrity. You know that a country that doesn't have an army has to pay others to protect it. With the criticism you give to the ruling majority, specifically and to the Patriots, you will not hide that you are in the government, Mr. Tsonev. There's no way to cover that up. And something else is going on right now because you're also talking about national security. We are talking now about the modernization of the Bulgarian Army, but the state is being dismantled because there are direct attacks against the security services, Mr. Tsonev. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u216	Your time is up. Thank you, Professor Tsonkov. Third line, Mr. Simeonov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u217	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Tsonev, you made a mistake with the comparison with the fence, because the historical truth and the historical situation in which the state and the Bulgarian Parliament were placed in 2015 was radically different from the situation in which we are now in the vote on the F-16 deal. I would like to remind you that Bulgaria was then subjected to an unprecedented influx of waves of migrants, where every night across the border with the Republic of Turkey passed 200, 300 people in spite of the heroic efforts and attempts to oppose the border police. This imposed an urgent vote at the beginning of 2015, in the Forty-third National Assembly, on a decision on a light regime for the construction of the fence. That decision did a great job. The fence did a great job. This migratory stream has been crossed, Mr. Tsonev. If you deny it, it means that you lived elsewhere and not in Bulgaria. Bulgaria, thank God, is least affected by this refugee stream precisely thanks to the quick, decisive actions of both parliament and the district governments and the companies that built the fence. And for her quality, don't pronounce yourself without seeing her. Go to the spot and look at her. Then skip to Hungary, see Hungarian, skip to Austria, see Austrian, see Croatian, which has just started, not to talk about Macedonian. It's a huge difference! This fence works. It has fulfilled its purpose for a ridiculous 180 million. lv. Funny compared to the price of other fences and a funny price compared to the price we are debating today, so you have no reason to make such a comparison. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, last sentence. But there was also something good about your statement that it was long, annoying, irritable...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u218	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u219	With such statements, the DPS will always be at the bottom by rating. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u220	You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u221	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll start from the back to the replicators, because the most fun is the statement of Simeonov. He didn't even understand that I used the example of the fence to say, if a fence can be subject to national security, why is it not subject to national security to purchase a fighter plane? If a fence can be without auction and competition, why does a battle plane have to be with auction and competition? To embarrass ourselves! And as for the ratings, it's really funny here. In the last elections, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has regained its third place [[SIGHS]] And Mr. Simeonov's party got less than Ivancheva. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Laughter and applause from DPS.)]] Perhaps for the next election, Mr. Simeonov, you need some of your sewers to arrest them in order to raise your electoral base if we judge on the case Ivancheva. Mr. Tsonkov, I take your line seriously, but you're wrong. I didn't claim that we don't have national sovereignty. I argued that the protection of national integrity and national sovereignty is a matter of collective security and directly depends on our strategic choice even within this collective security. And I set an example: if there is a conflict, what are the EU's opportunities to protect us from potential opponents and what are the opportunities of the United States as a leading partner in NATO. That was my example, and I think I'm answering your question that way. Did we build potential? When you have a country, you must always have the potential to ensure national security. You may not have the potential to provide other kinds of security, but for national security to have a country, you have to have potential at any moment. To answer Mrs. Stoyanova. It's a very simple answer, Mrs. Stoyanova. Because you said you were the most responsible partner, to tell our NATO partners and the United States. Take the vote today, Mrs. Stoyanova, take out 22 votes on the DPS and add them to the votes against.............................................................................................. Dear partners, if this had happened, there would be no ratification today, there would be no adoption of the change in the budget today. Is that your responsibility? If we weren't and didn't want to be loyal to our partners and Bulgarian citizens! That's your responsibility, Mrs. Stoyanova! That's why it's so easy for me to answer, but I'm sad. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u222	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u223	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u224	Personal explanation, Mr. Simeonov? [[Reply by National Representative Valeri Simeonov.]] That was a doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u225	There's no personal explanation for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u226	Ms. Ninova, a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u227	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We may have been talking about national security, national interests and political responsibility related to the purchase of airplanes for five hours now. But while we're talking about it out here, outside this building, for four days now, the country's been hit by a tsunami that seems to be growing, and no matter how much you bury your head in the sand, it won't pass us by, even though we're behind these thick walls. This is about the unprecedented crisis with the leak of personal data of five million Bulgarians from the NRA. Very responsible, calm and political approach to this issue, we have also approached the group, and I asked the Prime Minister: what measures will the government take to ensure the national security of Bulgaria and the life, data and security of every Bulgarian? Perhaps I expected from Mrs. Karayancheva that the Prime Minister would not come to answer, with arguments that it was not within his competence. A complete lie because I have an order from the Prime Minister himself, signed by him, which says that he in the Council of Ministers is responsible for the sole responsibility: is the Minister of Finance of the NRA to finance? This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. I think it's about those services he's personally responsible for. However, it was not his competence. Maybe that's just another question I'm asking him, and he's still not competent to come and say anything about any subject. Here I'll tell you something else interesting from the answer I received. Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva refers me to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy. And you know why? I at least learned from this letter for the first time that Tomislav Donchev was deprived of the right to deal with electronic government and transferred to Mariana Nikolova. Congratulations, Mr. Simeonov! You are already responsible for the electronic government in Bulgaria, just so you know. My question wasn't about e-government, it was about national security. These technical details are simply to inform the Bulgarian society. The Prime Minister is not competent on the topic of national security and is therefore not there. The question is why? If he has an argument to make, it's okay to come. Either he won't, or he's afraid to face the people and explain what's going on. Now get to the point. Colleagues, I'm sure you're convinced this is the biggest breach in the security system we've had in recent years. After the Customs Agency, Gravity, Ministry of Justice, ours, the National Assembly system, the CEC, now the NRA. In our opinion, we are talking about four things and one is coming. The four are: corruption and incompetence, connected together over or nearly two billion leva are spent on e-government. The result is this due to incompetence probably also due to corruption. It's very interesting who made the systems, what money is paid for, what commitments? The second conclusion for us is that it is about irresponsibility and frustration. Why irresponsible? The Prime Minister, apparently shocked by the situation, the only thing he can say, as always in a critical situation, is hiding, and begins to speak jokes and lacrosses. The only thing he could say about this unprecedented crisis is that we have good hackers. There is simply nothing more reckless and irresponsible than a prime minister of a country at such a critical time for all of us. The Ministry of Interior began by saying that a Russian married to a Bulgarian, probably angry at his wife, had decided to avenge Goranov. That version quickly disappeared. Then the young Bulgarian hacker, a magician, had done this. And this version quickly disappeared to the extent the prosecution itself to disprove and release it, because, you see, received a letter from the NRA that what was downloaded was not a critical infrastructure. Ma, how come it's not?! Five million Bulgarians live their lives, their property, their car, their account, their loan, the mortgage, are on the street. And as of today, there is information that hacker websites have started using this. Even IT specialists have been warning since morning, while we are sitting here, trapped in this pile of self-sufficientness, that at this moment someone can draw credit on behalf of every Bulgarian whose data is outside. [[GERB lines.]] IT experts say that. The facts: five million Bulgarians are affected. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, we have had many crises in both your management and ours. We've had protests of farmers, pensioners, doctors, nurses, now there are cops and firemen. But we have never, ever had a crisis in which all Bulgarians are affected. Five million! It's been to dissatisfied groups of Bulgarians since its life. Now it's all of them! Five million! Poor and rich, engineers and workers, farmers and scientists, doctors and nurses all! Five million are on display, and they're on the street, and anyone can abuse them. And that's as long as we're alive! You can abuse this data because we can't change the egenes, as you know. From now on, as long as we're alive, we're under threat. The consequences for business not only for every citizen. Dear Bulgarian, European and global companies that are registered in Bulgaria and have a bearing on this issue. Your trade operations, your contacts, your translations, the prices of your goods are all on display. Competition can kill you in 24 hours. Third consequence. Since this morning ten times ten people have talked about Euro-Atlantic values. Isn't European security a Euro-Atlantic value? [[(Reply from GERB:]] She's threatened! How many European companies of these hundreds of thousands currently operating in Bulgaria are threatened? Everyone, I think. How many Bulgarian companies make trade with European companies, make transfers, transactions, trade? We are part of the European Union, we are a member, and this whole situation is affecting the whole of Europe. The consequences for Bulgaria? You don't think we'll get into Schengen, do you?! Citizens for the European Development of Bulgaria, you have also deprived us of this last opportunity for development of Bulgaria. When will we see Schengen in this breakthrough in European security?! The message for Europe? The government of Boyko Borisov is a threat not only to the property, property, the life of 5 million Bulgarians, it is a threat to national security, it is also a threat to European security. Against the backdrop of this catastrophe, which is happening outside parliament, absolutely thorny and inadequate today, the prime minister says highways increase income and next year promised 10% income growth. Dear Bulgarians, he has just obliged you with another 400 million, which you will pay and gives you the spoon for a 10% increase in income next year. Dear Bulgarians! Boyko Borisov is making fun of your life, your property, your income, everything at this moment! Look! The state is collapsing for hours, the government is absolutely inadequate, incapable and incompetent to control this crisis, cannot guarantee your personal property, that of the state and the European one. Boyko Borisov cannot cope with this crisis and that is why today we are addressing President Radev and anyone who agrees with you can do so. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] We demand, we ask, we ask, as he accepts, that I bring it in in writing today, to convene the Advisory Council on National Security. Let us gather there all the representatives of services, political parties, parliament's leadership, state leadership, and take measures to control this crisis, although it is yet to develop, the consequences will yet be felt. However, the only appropriate action that we can take is not to click with a language and say that it is not true, but to gather, to think about how to stop the crisis, how to master it and how to ensure that everything you have done to them will not cost them, I repeat: pension contributions, health insurance, property, mortgage, credit, income all this. You have to do it! Therefore, we turn to the President: let him call the Advisory Council and see who will be responsible for this situation and political, and who will take the responsibility to bring us out [[the President signals that time has run out]] the country from the state in which GERB put it. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u228	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Mr. Mareshki, hold on. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u229	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Ninova! Of course, what you are saying is serious enough and there is no justification for the breach in the revenue administration database. However, I would like to take the factual part of the matter. The first, I personally, in a personal capacity, and I think a larger range than the Bulgarian population was affected by the crisis in the 1990s, in which the banking system collapsed and the dollar reached 3000 BGN. However, this does not diminish the problem from today if we measure the scale of the crisis. Please, I do not agree with your claim, because it is false to believe that the data concerning companies which are, for the most part, accessible in the Trade Register in terms of prices, transactions and any other sensitive information relating to business relations is available in the National Revenue Agency's database, nor in what is distributed and illegally extracted from the National Revenue Agency's databases, nor in the rest of the unused part of the National Revenue Agency's database. The attempt to create fears has long-term consequences. And if your goal is to overwhelm the management of GERB, you should always keep in mind that if your ultimate goal is for you to manage, something must remain on which to place your management skills, something on a solid basis. Many times I have said, by the way, both in the debate on party subsidies and the remuneration of the MPs, and on many other topics,.. must be subject to a common political consensus and come out of the armaments of politicians, as they are a foundation of the political system. Every attempt to make a policy of everything becomes a boomerang that brings down the quality of the political debate in general and society becomes more unsuccessful, and as you well noted, we become here in this room, increasingly self-sufficient. I don't minimize the crisis. I apologize once again to all Bulgarian citizens whose information has been distributed. However, your attempt to bring in fear that this information can achieve the disastrous consequences that you claim are false. And when something is false, it can be found in the dictionary how it is classified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u230	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Mareshki, is it a statement or a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u231	I'll make a statement. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I take the word challenged, on the one hand, the funniest, in the sense of how to say it, so I don't insult anyone, but let's leave it funny. On the other hand, however, it is the most shameful and irresponsible statement I have heard from my colleague Tsonev. In that statement, we heard a few things... [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u232	I apologize, Mr. Mareshki. It cannot be a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group because you are referring to a subject which is being debated at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u233	What subject? I haven't mentioned anything yet.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u234	You're talking about a statement by a representative of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u235	I will draw attention to the results of the European elections. They have nothing to do with the subject. I will talk about the results of the European elections, the previous elections and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u236	Please do not concern the subject we are discussing right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u237	I won't concern her, of course. If I hurt her, I'll cut to the chase. It is about that no one until now, from any political formation, has dared to get excited and even to gloat with the results. I want to support and congratulate my colleagues from IMRO, who have achieved a truly distinctive result, but they know very well how they have achieved it, and for a minute they have not thought to gloat, because then there will be counterattacks. The truth is this. Yes, the DPS is the third political force of the European elections with about 300,000 votes. A vague account shows 4.5% of Bulgarian citizens. Dear colleagues, let's get down to the ground. You see, everyone is responsible, no one is allowed to be proud of the results, because they are shameful for everyone. No one has the right to want to rule with 4.5% support from the Bulgarian society. Yes, maybe a third, maybe tomorrow, when you discredit all Bulgarian citizens, you will become the first political force, your 300 thousand votes will remain and no one else will vote for anyone. That doesn't mean there's something to be proud of. Here I would like to address the citizens for the European development of Bulgaria and because they really are for European development and not for NATO development of Bulgaria, because if they wanted to be hard for NATO, because tomorrow it may not be NATO, it would be Citizens for NATO and European development of Bulgaria. This is where a call was made to foreign partners. Notice without our 22 votes what would have happened...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u238	You are again on the subject of the debate, dear Mr Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u239	No, I'm not. I'm just talking about voting. I want to address the Bulgarian citizens. Bulgarian citizens are our most important and senior partners, partners of all political parties. Then there are our foreign partners, whether it be euros or Atlantic Russian, Chinese, Iranian and so on. The first partners of us, the MPs, are Bulgarian citizens. I want to turn to them, they want to see their results and actually see what did so that they could now live in misery and timelessness for the next years. Here I would like to turn again with a call to colleagues from GERB: watch out for which partners you rely, do not allow yourself to become hostage to parties who apparently take their decisions after consulting foreign ambassadors on how to support or not support a particular political or economic cause! Here it was clearly shown that there was pressure from our partners, but not from the Bulgarian citizens, but from the external partners to take one or another action in the politics and political life of Bulgaria. Yes, if this Parliament is not good enough if you have to go to other elections, but do not let Bulgaria and Bulgarian citizens become hostages in a formation that over the years, if it has defended the Bulgarian national interest, Bulgaria today would not be the poorest country in Europe, but also one of the poorest in the world. Thank you and everyone to have one in mind. [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u240	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. We are continuing the debate. Any further comments? Mr. Gokov, come in. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, especially those who applaud me, thank you very much! Mr. Manev too, thank you, Mr. Manev. [[Applause.]] I am posting my statement here, just like Mr. Tsonev, because I decided that the topics are interrelated and as far as ratification of the contracts for the purchase of airplanes is concerned, as much is positioned when the state budget changes. I will start from there, honourable MPs, Mr. Minister, and all those who voted for ratification of the treaties, have you heard the Bulgarian jargon: [[Noise and lines.]] I can tell by your reaction that you've heard it, but I don't think you understand what's going on in this jargon. I'll tell you. It's ironic for people with an unusually high standard of living, even those who are deprived of basic material goods, but at the expense of that they flaunt an expensive, self-sustaining asset for which they have devoted their resources to what they need most. I don't know if this looks strong to you like what we're doing today, and the showing purchase of these eight planes, which a general said from this tribune that this was respectable. I don't know how with eight planes we respect anyone. I've heard reports here that our neighbors have 400, 300, 200, 40 planes, so I don't know how we respect them by eight, so our purchase, believe me, is self-inflicted. The only thing I recognize about this purchase is Mr. Tsonev's statement, who said in a very direct text what we do. "We thank those who are our friends now. That's how I take it, but tell me it's true. Don't mask me here with any motivation. We come to this: how many times since the beginning of the year, and not from the beginning of your term of office I will not ask, you refused to support good arguments in the social sphere, including in the field of health, on the formal occasion that there is no money for this in the budget and if we are going to implement them, we need to update this budget? And now you're doing, again, a budget update for a pointless purchase. As much as you hate it, I will tell you what you did not want to make a change in the state budget and what we will do today, because I have no doubt that with the formed majority around these purchases, the change in the state budget will also be accepted. I had the opportunity to tell you yesterday, but now I will repeat it, because from this tribune things must be repeated and beaten into the heads of the MPs, so that they can think about the people who have chosen them and sent them to Parliament not to buy them planes to be proud of, but to make their lives more bearable and to make them live better. Poor elderly people increased from 22.6% in 2014 to 29.2% in 2018. For these people we have no money and we do not want to change the state budget in order to live better. Under the poverty line, which for this year is BGN 348, one million and three hundred thousand people, pensioners, adults who are 60% of the people, live below the threshold of this poverty. For these people there is also no money, and we also do not want to change the budget, we want to change it for other jobs, I think, minor, and this is a very serious problem. Bulgaria melts, Bulgaria dies. This is the cause of our demographic disaster, only this is not the reason for a budget change and for providing more funds to conduct a policy to limit this demographic disaster, but buying eight planes is the reason why. I just don't know who they'll protect in 20 years if these eight planes arrive in Bulgaria in 20 years. Now I'm going to tell you a terrifying statistic that I told you yesterday, but today I'm going to repeat it again. Forty-one per cent of the Bulgarian children - a little over 510 thousand - live in horrific conditions of poverty. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB. Replies: "The theme. "]] The theme is the state budget and its change. For these 510,000 children, Dr. Daritkova, you do not want to change the state budget in any way you do not want to change it, and they live poor! This way we form marginals in the future, and you don't want to change the budget, but you want to change it for eight planes, and at such a terrible price. I do not know how you will go outside in front of the people, because I heard someone here saying that the Bulgarian wanted to arm himself and would respect what you do. The Bulgarian respects his children more and you do not want to make a change in the state budget for your children. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Why eight planes are national security? I will ask the question and Bulgarian children are not national security?! [[Loud noise and lines.]] Who opposes the army of the people I do not know, I think you, but this people will decide who, what, and whom. Demographic catastrophe is not the subject of national security, but eight planes are the subject of national security?! All that makes you update the budget, I don't think it's an unimportant reason, I just lower it like that because it, comparing it to everything I've told you so far, is a less important problem. If you had decided first, or at least to try with the state budget to solve in this direction the social problems of the Bulgarians, would have been more condescending to what you want to do with national security, but since you are not doing so, I am critical and cannot forgive you, there is no way the Bulgarian people will forgive you. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u242	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Alexandrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will try to introduce two elements, because today is not possible not to be filled with a lot of politics, and it should also be because we are still in the National Assembly. I'll try to get you back to another look. The debate on the budget should always be debates on how public funds are spent, because the budget is precisely such a spending of public funds, and from then on we need to consider whether this is the best possible way. Why am I saying this thing? The BSP colleagues are right, and Mr. Radev is right and the President who says and those who say that there are hidden expenses here. We are currently debating a cost of nearly 2.2 billion. lv. with the trend on eight machines, with the tendency that they become plus eight in the future, that is, we now have a future cost at stake. When we look at the budget, we should first think about whether these funds that we are now going to give, is this the best way to spend them? Why? If we assume that the funds are much more expensive now than in the future, these two billion we now give, if we assume that we give them to the state, that is, we give them to society, we can multiply them over time and build much more stable budgets on which to base modernization of the army. Yes, it is necessary, yes, she should have it, but not to have it on the taxpayer's back. Because now 300 people in this building together with the staff of the National Assembly, together with the journalists, will be present at a decision that will affect millions, not being sure whether it would be for the better of those millions living in Bulgaria. A fundamental question that has also been referred to on the previous subject, including that we must defend ourselves collectively against a collective enemy. Who's the enemy, asking the question? Because if we see what's going on at our southern border, we can assume that the enemy is perhaps Turkey. The DPS colleagues, Mr. Tsonev, were saying that we should defend ourselves against the enemy, but who is he? What we will do with eight machines, provided that almost everyone around us is members of the same collective defence system that must be solidarity, which, if it is solidar enough, must be equal proportional to everyone. I think Macedonia has recently become the last NATO member again our neighbouring country. If the system itself is solidarity and fights against a common enemy, that would also be the costs of Germany, Italy and other countries. Indeed, Mr. Tsonev is right in one thing that the Union is an economic giant and a military dwarf, but there is only one country in the world that is an economic giant and a military giant and we are currently preparing to buy planes from it. My appeal is to everyone. If you can, therefore, I have tried to be further away from political speaking, with the hand of the heart to say that voting for these planes tomorrow will improve the lives of all the millions of Bulgarians who live in Bulgaria and outside it, because this is the main thing, this is important for us as politicians. If we don't have a country, if we don't have a nation, we don't have a population, and we won't be, but these eight planes will not improve our national security to an extent that would suggest any countermeasures to any other threats, but these two billion given now have much more value than those given forward in the future. Economists know that very well. I'm going back to the fundamental theory of finance again. Each lev now in the pocket is much more valuable than all the money you would have in the future. We are called to think wisely about this, not to make decisions in spite of it, not just to go and fight. In political arguments, this dispute has been resolved back in the past what we have chosen, what the country has chosen. We are moving in this reality, Mr. Tzipov, which we must observe. That is clear, but in all our actions we are guided by the interests of the people. In these actions, we must not ignore whether our interest is at the moment to pay two billion, or to do so in any other way, whether it is deferred or to find other mechanisms. The interest of Bulgaria, at least through my eyes, is for us to fight to achieve such a price and to achieve such a deal that would be beneficial to society and not for society to be the sufferer! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u244	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. - What's the line? We continue with the speeches. I don't see any other requests for speeches. Mrs. Stoyanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Having had nearly five-hour debates on the ratification of the four contracts for the acquisition of a new battle plane, I think that in the framework of this debate there was a lot of details, positions and so on, now what we need to do and what I want to return to is the financial provision of the contracts voted by the National Assembly. The financial guarantee shall be made through the budget. There was a lot of talk about this about the financial parameters of the contract. I just want to focus on a few aspects that I think are important. The financial security of the contract is carried out by increasing the costs of the Ministry of Defence, respectively at the expense of increasing the budget deficit for 2019. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this increase in the deficit is not linked to an increase in the amount of debt, a new debt to be issued to secure this expenditure, because the money needed for this expenditure is precisely in the fiscal reserve. We currently have over 11 billion fiscal reserves. Now I can definitely say that the economic and budgetary moment for carrying out such costs is extremely favourable, the most favourable in 10 years. Of course, here, from this tribune, different things can be said and opposed to different layers of the population, different expenditures in the budget of this expenditure for the so-called battle plane. But we all need to be aware that we are a member of NATO, of collective defence, and we must participate in this collective defence with our defence capabilities. For many years, we ignored the commitment we had made to our partners to increase the percentage of defence against gross domestic product. Now that the financial situation of the state allows it, we are actually fulfilling this commitment. I would like to refer to the fact that quite inaccurate and false things have been said here regarding the conditions under which it will be paid or financed or the financial conditions of this transaction. Some have also suggested that the partner be wrong about this deal, namely the US government. I would like to state clearly and categorically that a partner in this deal is not the manufacturer of the planes, but the US government. The FMS programme, which is being discussed here during the previous five or six hours, is a programme by which the US government purchases all its weapons from the relevant suppliers with which it has a contract. This is a program that applies both to the purchase of the US government and to the purchase not only of airplanes, but of arms from all other countries over 100 when buying American weapons. According to the requirements of the Programme, the US Government is actually an agent of the country concerned, in the case of the Bulgarian State in the conclusion of the specific agreement of the specific contract with the different suppliers. In this sense, any speculation that the contract has been concluded for Bulgaria means that we are telling our partner: "You want to screw us over and conclude an unfit contract on your own account, which is not true, which, probably expressed as a statement, has another purpose that we cannot give in to. Why is the main financial condition that concerns the budget, in fact, the change in the Budget Act, the advance payment of the entire amount of the transaction? What happens to this advance payment? In the previous statements and in the line I made earlier, it became clear that the advance payment was actually the result of two factors. The first factor is that for the first time we become a client of the US government on a similar deal and under FMS rules, precisely in the first deal, it is always secured by a prepayment. It is no less important for all over 100 countries that have bought.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u246	So Borisov is lying!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u247	No, he's not lying, Mr. Borisov! Don't call from a place, please! Mr. Chairman, please make an observation!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u248	It's done.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u249	The second element is the risk assessment element. For each contract, a risk assessment shall be carried out in advance of how the payment is to be made. In this case, the risk assessment shows that at this moment Bulgaria is not dressed in the trust for the next four years to pay for what it ordered and concluded as a contract today. Because, you know, if in the next four years GERB, who always makes the main commitment, is not in power, it is possible, almost certainly...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u250	That he wouldn't be in power! [[Laughter at BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u251	...that this money will not be paid. This is where Mr. Borisov's name came in. Mr. Borisov is Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. He has made a commitment with his government to lead the negotiations. And when the condition, the insurmountable condition of these negotiations, is that the amount be paid in advance, it is within its right and in its obligation to instruct the working team, the negotiating team, whether to continue the negotiations on this condition, by accepting that condition, or to suspend the negotiations at all for the purchase of this combat plane. This Mr. Borisov has made a decision because it is his duty and his right! And the twists on the left of this are normal, because the goal is only to make the government vulnerable, of course, and personally the Prime Minister. Where's that $2 billion going? 100 million. leva, which will be translated? Where? Bank account of the U.S. government at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. This is an account of the US government, of the Agency, which has accounts and Bulgaria will have its own account for the 2 billion. 100 million. lv. This money will be used in stages, according to how the contract for the production of aircraft itself is implemented. So they will not be used at once and translated to the manufacturer of these planes and equipment to it. Moreover, the contract states that if the Bulgarian state wishes, it can conclude contracts, invest this money in low-risk instruments in order to bring additional profitability. The Bulgarian National Bank is currently in talks to be the agent of the Bulgarian government for the conclusion of a similar agreement, which at our current levels of interest rates and the yield of US bonds will bring about a percentage and a half of the yield of this money. What happens to the moment when a question of penalty might arise? An opportunity may arise for one reason or another to fail to fulfil its obligations, whether not only in time, but also in quality, and in other things. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, is included in the treaty that the US government has concluded not only for our deal but also for its own armed forces with the producers concerned. There, these penalties are very strict. If this happens also on the Bulgarian deal, all the sums of these penalties will occur on the account in question and the account of the Bulgarian government. If we have to be even more precise, they will be intercepted by payments, i.e. there will be less payment, in a smaller amount, if there is such a risk. I therefore contradict the claims of some fellow Members on the left-hand side that in this case a contract is being concluded in the dark, without the possibility of seeking any penalty for one reason or another for failing to comply with its clauses. Here they will say that Bulgaria is buying a very expensive plane. It was said that, you see, Slovakia saved up for a 70 million fighter jet. Ladies and gentlemen, if you go to the trouble of entering the Secret Office and see the specific figures, you will see that this is an absolute lie! If what is said is true, Slovakia must have received not only without money its planes, but perhaps there is an additional payment on the other side of these planes. I don't mention numbers because it's in the Secret Office, but everyone, you can check it out and say that whoever claims it is actually lying. So I would like to ask you to vote on the amendment of the state budget for 2019 in the amount of an increase in the cost of acquiring a combat plane. At the same time, I can assure you that in no way does the increase in the deficit for 2019 to an estimated amount of 2.1% of gross domestic product change the government's fiscal targets for achieving a zero deficit next year. This is a one-off cost, and this expenditure will, among other things, be made within the framework of the European Union's deficit requirements. And two more words. According to the European methodology on which the European Union monitors the financial and fiscal situation of the Bulgarian budget for 2019, we will not take into account the deficit because we are working on different methodologies. We in our budget on a cash-based basis and on the European methodology based on charged expenditure. This will happen when we acquire this asset and it becomes ours. I mean, four years from now. So, I think this is the best time to make a similar cost. I think the choice that is made is strategic, responsible, corresponds to the long-standing orientation of the Bulgarian government. Here, with our vote, we must support the financing of this deal by changing the State Budget Act. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u252	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. - What's the line? Professor Gechev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u253	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, it may be a technical mistake, but if you claim that the government of the United States is an agent employed by the Bulgarian government, I will not comment on it because it is contrary to common sense. The American government will be hired by the Bulgarian agent!? There's no such thing in the treaty! The American government was elected by the American Congress to protect the economic, political and strategic interests of the United States of America. And in these contracts, I salute them! They've protected them perfectly at our expense! [[Lowered noise and lines on the right side of the hall.]] So it's impractical! Secondly, no money will be returned. Do not mislead the Members of the National Assembly. Ms. Stoyanova, the Treaty in pure English states that the supplier is not responsible for any failure to comply with any of the clauses. What are you going to translate? So don't fool parliament! [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria (Bulgaria) (Applause from Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u254	Thank you. Second line? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u255	The US government is representative of the Bulgarian state in the conclusion of this deal under the terms of the FMS. And what you're talking about is simply not true! It's nice to sit down. You like to look at the Internet, read the details and requirements of making these deals. Because penalties, if any, are due, and they'll be right on our account, on our account, the U.S. government account.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u256	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. We are continuing the debate. Any other speeches? [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Mr. Tsonkov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u257	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! It is clear to everyone that the economy is the base, the basis for security and defence development. But here always the leaders of GERB and the United patriots talk about how consistent they are in the conduct of financial, fiscal policy, how they generate stability and security. And we see that with such a very serious cost, which is being made suddenly, so we are discussing an update of the State Budget Act, suddenly the budget deficit is jumping to 2.1%, respectively the cost of defending 3% of gross domestic product. Obviously, that doesn't bother the government. Obviously, it does not bother them that for the next year these hidden costs that will occur.. Be assured, we will talk about this again, and they will also have to be provided within 1.. 2 billion. Then the question arises: what do we do with other systems, honourable managers, financing other sectors, which should also develop? [[Reply of the National Representative Plamen Manushev.]] Yes, Mr. Admiral! And something else! With this decision you are about to make, make sure you condemn the other two modernization projects to failure. Time will show that I am right, unfortunately, because we from the BSP for Bulgaria........................................................................ I will ask you if you will improve the working conditions, the salaries of the Bulgarian servicemen? [[(GERB's reply: What do you suggest?]] We'll tell you when it's time for the budget what we're offering. After all, you are not showing national responsibility, but, on the contrary, leading the state to failure. Bulgaria is obviously already in moral and spiritual bankruptcy, and now we are leading it to financial! Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u258	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. - What's the line? Mr. Toshev! [[(Lowered noise and lines from GERB and from BSP for Bulgaria]] Colleagues, please be careful! I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I'm calling off the debate. I ask the Quaestors to invite the Members of the National Assembly to the Chamber and I ask the Members of the National Assembly to take their seats. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 902-01-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 191 MPs: 117, against 72, abstention 2. The bill was passed in the first vote. Mrs. Stoyanova, you have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u259	Dear Mr. President, in the long and irrigation speeches by colleagues, no proposal for amendment and supplement of the bill was made, which is why on the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall put to the vote a procedure to examine and adopt the draft in a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u260	Thank you. [[People representatives Georgi Gokov and Georgi Svilenski want the floor.]] Which one's the opposite? [[(Noise and lines. Scandal by GERB and OP:]] You have the floor, Mr. Svilensky!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u261	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Indeed, there is such a practice, but it is applied when, firstly, there are no votes against the House, abstentions when there is a single vote in the Chamber. In this case, there were more than 60 MPs who were opposed. Among other things, we state our wish and we will make proposals between first and second votes. [[Strong noise from GERB and OP.]] This is not necessarily to be stated in speeches. It's neither late nor early. Here, from this tribune, I declare that the parliamentary group will make the necessary proposals between the first and second votes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u262	That's out of the question, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u263	The procedure is a reverse motion not to allow a vote, as there will also be proposals, and there are also enough MPs who have voted against............................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u264	Okay, I'll make my case. You have no reason, because no proposals have been made during the debates under the Rules of Procedure. Now that's a post-Factum. [[National Representative Georgi Svilenski at the Presidential Bank speaks outside the microphones.]] I put to the vote the proposed procedural proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. Vote 190 MPs: 121, against 68, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, please submit the bill for the second vote. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u265	The Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 is amended and supplemented by the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019.(prom., D.V., No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u266	Colleagues, may I ask you to remain silent because we are reading the State Budget Act. Thank you!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u267	Please put the name of the Law to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u268	Statements? I won't. I put the name of the Law to the vote according to the text of the importer. Vote 183 MPs: 117, against 62, abstention 4. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u269	................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: It shall adopt the State budget for 2019 on expenditure, budgetary relations and contribution to the general budget of the European Union as follows, according to a table: I'm sorry, Costs 15 152 731.6 thousand. lv. 1. Current costs 10 444 825.8 thousand. lv. 1.1. Staff 5 143 286.0 thousand. lv. 1.2. Subsidies and other current transfers 955 507.3 thousand. lv. 1.2.1. Subsidies and other current transfers to non-financial corporations 885 181,0 thousand lv. OJ L 347, Subsidies and other current transfers to non-profit entities 70 326,3 thousand lv. 1.3. Interest 633 338,6 thousand lv. 1.4. Current transfers, benefits and benefits to households 1 283 573,1 thousand lv. 2. Capital expenditure 4 593 222,7 thousand lv. 2.1. Acquisition of fixed assets and major repair 4 158 926,8 thousand. lv. 2.2. Capital transfers 434 295.9 thousand lv. 3. Growth of the state reserve (net) 19 233.1 thousand lv. 4. Current and capital transfers granted to abroad 14 350,0 thousand. lv. 5. Reserve for unforeseen and/or urgent expenditure 81,100,0.000. lv. 5.1. Under the central budget for disaster prevention, control and resolution 80,000, 0,000. lv. 5.2. According to the budget of the judiciary 600,0 thousand. lv. 5.3. According to the budget of the National Assembly 500,0 thousand. lv. III. Budgetary relations (transfers) - net 11 486 769,2 thousand. lv. 1. Transfers provided for: 11 505 227.2 thousand lv. of which: 1.1. Municipalities 3 745 750,5 thousand. lv. 1.2. State social security 4 231 661.6 thousand. lv. 1.3. The National Health Insurance Fund 1 437 589. 0 thousand. lv. of which: 1.3.1. - from the Ministry of Health 43,000, 0.000. lv. 1.4. The European Union funds account for the National Fund 862 582.2 thousand. lv. 1.5. The European Union funds account for the State Fund's State Fund............ 294 833.8 2. Transfers received from: 18 458 thousand lv., of which: 2.1. State Social Security 7400 thousand. lv., 2.1.1. - for the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy 7150 thousand. lv. 2.1.2. - for the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications 250,000 thousand. lv. 2.2. The National Health Insurance Fund - for the Ministry of Finance 5058 thousand. lv. IV. Contribution to the general budget of the European Union 1 282 127.7 thousand lv. 2. In para. 3 the number "399 328,7' is replaced by "2 228 328,7'. 3. In para. The 4th number s "399 328,7' is replaced by "2 228 328,7'. § 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Council shall adopt the budget of the Ministry of Defence for 2019, as follows, according to the following table: I. Revenues, benefits and donations 44,000 thousand. lv. 1. Non-tax revenue 44,000. lv. 1.1. State fees 50,000. lv. 1.2. Revenue and income from ownership 29 320 thousand. lv. 1.3 Fines, penalties and penalty interest 300,000. lv. 1.4. Other revenue 14 330 thousand lv. II. Costs 3 514 211 thousand. lv. 1. Current costs 1, 310,813,3 thousand. BGN, including: 1.1. Staff 995 922.3 thousand. lv. 1.2. Subsidies and other current transfers 2828 thousand. lv. 1.2.1. Subsidies and other current transfers to non-financial corporations 2828 thousand lv. 1.3. Current transfers, benefits and benefits to households 1060 thousand. lv. 2. Capital expenditures 2 203397.7 thousand. lv. 2.1. Acquisition of fixed assets and major repair 2 203 397.7 thousand. lv. 2.1.1. of which: 1,200 million equivalents to left-hand. US dollars to implement international treaties with the United States government in connection with the acquisition of a new type of battle plane 2 billion. 100 million. lv. III. Budget Relations (transfers) (+/-) 3 470 211 thousand lv. 1. Budget relationship with the central budget (+/-) 3 498 309,1 thousand lv. 2. Budget relations with other budgetary organisations (+/-) - 28 098.1 thousand lv. 2.1. Transfers provided -28 098 thousand. lv. 2.1.1. for state universities -28 098 thousand. lv. IV. Budget balance (I, II, III) 0 BGN V. Operations in the part of the funding 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: supplies the cost allocation under para. 1 by policy areas and budget programmes as follows: I. Name of policy area/budgetary programme 1. Defence Policy 3 431 231 thousand. lv. 2. Allied and international security policy 82 980.0 thousand. lv. Everything: 3 514 211.0 thousand. lv. 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue will be used to provide additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation. I. Indicators 1. Maximum amount of commitments for expenditure that can be made in 2019 2 497 771.3 thousand. lv. 2. Maximum amount of new expenditure liabilities that may be accumulated in 2019 2 511 259.7 thousand. lv. 4. They're creating an al. 5.. The funds transferred by the Ministry of Defence to the Government of the United States to implement international treaties in connection with the acquisition of a new type of fighter aircraft may be deposited and invested through accounts at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in favour of the Ministry of Defence on the basis of a decision of the Council of Ministers. If necessary, the Bulgarian National Bank acts as an agent of the state on the basis of an agreement between the Ministry of Defence and the Bulgarian National Bank, concluded according to the requirements of art. 43 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank. (6) Transfer of funds for the implementation of international contracts in connection with the acquisition of a new type of fighter aircraft and the resulting management and investment of the funds under para. 5 net proceeds from interest, other earnings, fees and commissions, as well as the transfer to the bank budget account of the Ministry of Defence to the Bulgarian National Bank of Undisclosed Funds under para. 5, including the transfer of interest and other income funds, shall be reflected as revenue and expenditure on the budget of the Ministry of Defence in accordance with the procedure laid down for accounting under the budgets of budgetary organisations of receipts and payments resulting from operations carried out through accreditation and other similar accounts. (7) In the case of changes in the exchange rate leading to the exceeding of the specified in para. 1 Section II, t. 2.1.1 amount in leva equivalent, or where necessary to ensure the full amount of payments due under international contracts in connection with the acquisition of a new type of combat aircraft, as well as for the purpose of applying para. 6 appropriate changes to the budget of the Ministry of Defence may be made under the Public Finance Act. (8) In the case of changes in the exchange rate leading to a reduction of the defined in para. 1 Section II, t. 2.1.1 amount in leva equivalent, economy may not be used by the Ministry of Defence for other purposes, except in the case of coverage of expenditure and revenue under the budget of the Ministry resulting from the implementation of para. 6................................................ "Concluding provision' § 3. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. Mr. Chairman, please also apply the tables that I have read in detail.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u270	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and the name of the section of the Final provision and the final provision itself. Vote 187 MPs: 113, against 72, abstention 2. The proposal is accepted at second reading. Let's continue with the next point: LOCCHEED MARTIN GLOBAL INC ON A PROGRAMME FOR INDistral COOPERATION F-16 BLOC 70, No 902-02-20, implemented by the MINISTER COUNCIL OF 17 JULY 2019. The report belongs to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u271	♪ I can't believe under a bill for ratification of a Framework Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and Lockheed Martin Global INC on Industrial Cooperation Programme F-16 Block 70, No 902-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 July 2019. At its extraordinary meeting on 18 July 2019, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined and discussed the Draft Law on ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and Lockheed Martin Global INC on Industrial Cooperation Programme F-16 Block 70. The meeting was attended by Lachezar Borisov Deputy Minister of Economy, who presented the Bill. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed bill is ratification of the approved Framework Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and Lockheed Martin Global INC on Industrial Cooperation Programme F-16 Block 70, signed on 11 July 2019 in Washington, USA, and 12 July 2019 in Sofia, Republic of Bulgaria. The Framework Agreement is concluded in relation to the agreed by the National Assembly and updated Project for Investment Expenditure "Acquiring a new type of combat aircraft" and the requirement laid down for industrial cooperation in relation to the implementation of the project. Industrial cooperation aims to increase the capabilities of the Bulgarian industry in defence and security. Each potential supplier is required to propose industrial cooperation projects in the following three areas: - the establishment of national capabilities for logistical maintenance of aeroplanes at intermediate level of operation in order to achieve the maximum possible level of independence in the operation and maintenance of aeroplanes in the Republic of Bulgaria; - the long-term cooperation with the Bulgarian industry with the aim of developing industrial and technological capabilities in the Republic of Bulgaria, through which the Bulgarian defence industry will be given access to the world markets related to the production and maintenance of products in the field of security and defence; - building security and defence capabilities related to the transfer of unmanned aircraft manufacturing technologies, border control systems, video surveillance. In the subsequent discussion, the People's Representative Rumen Gechev described the Framework Agreement as desirable, without responsibilities, for which we will pay. People's representative Valeri Simeonov described the Agreement as non-essential for the implementation of which the costs will be borne by the Bulgarian state. He also disagreed with the violation of the original decision of the National Assembly in relation to prices, payment and delivery. National interests and national dignity are deemed to have been ignored. Lachezar Borisov answered the questions asked and the opinions expressed. After the end of the discussion and voting with results.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law on the ratification of a Framework Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and Lockheed Martin Global INC on Industrial Cooperation Programme F-16 Block 70, No 902-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u272	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. The report of the Defence Committee is next. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u273	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to you, ♪ I can't believe of the Defence Committee on a Draft Law on the ratification of a Framework Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and Lockheed Martin Global INC on Industrial Cooperation Programme F-16 Block 70, No 902-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 July 2019. At a regular meeting held on 18 July 2019, the Defence Committee discussed Draft Law of the National Assembly on ratification of a Framework Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and Lockheed Martin Global INC on Industrial Cooperation Programme F-16 Block 70, No 902-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 July 2019. The meeting was attended by 20 MPs. The meeting was attended by Mr. Emil Karanikolov, Minister of Economy; Mr. Atanas Zapreyanov, Deputy Minister of Defence; and Mr. Krasimir Kanev, Director of the Directorate of Project Management at the Ministry of Defence. The draft ratification law was presented by Minister Karanikolov. In his statement, he pointed out that the purpose of this agreement is to establish a framework for meeting the requirements for industrial co-operation under the US contracts for the acquisition of a new type of fighter aircraft. Minister Karanikolov said the Framework Agreement is in line with all the requirements of European legislation. It provides for the implementation by Lockheed Martin Global INC of the following industrial cooperation projects: - the creation of basic capabilities for the hydrosystem of the aircraft, repair of hydraulic components, major repair and infrastructure; - the creation of basic capabilities for the aircraft landing device, the possibility of repairing and major repair of the components of the landing gear and infrastructure; - the creation of basic capabilities in electronics.. ability to repair and basic repair of electrical components and infrastructure; - creation of management of acquired aeroplanes, supply chain management and maintenance capabilities; - assistance to support the development of national capabilities in the field of unmanned aircraft (BLA) and Drone technology; - support of the National Air Training Centre. Minister Karanikolov briefed the members of the Defence Committee on some of the more important positions of the Ministry of Economy and Tourism, defended in the negotiation process: negotiating projects worth not less than 10% of the value of the transaction; gaining access to international markets; providing opportunities for service of other F-16 planes, and not only the Bulgarian ones. He pointed out that four of the projects will be implemented by the Bulgarian industry and the list of projects is open and new projects can be added to it. Their implementation begins immediately after the ratification of the contracts for the plane and will continue for about 30 years. In the subsequent discussion were the MPs Kolyo Milev, Vasil Antonov, Nikolay Tsonkov, Emil Hristov. Additional questions were asked regarding: Bulgarian companies, which will be involved in the implementation of the projects; the opportunities of "Avionams" to engage in the implementation of projects; the opportunities for engaging in the implementation of projects of companies from the town of Pleven; the indirect effect of industrial cooperation. Minister Karanikol replied that Lockheed Martin has done research among more than 100 Bulgarian companies, but the specific choice will be made after ratification of the Framework Agreement. He gave an assessment of the possibilities of "Avionams" for engaging in the implementation of specific projects. Minister Karanikolov said the Ministry of Economy and Tourism has an ambition to develop the potential capabilities of the Bulgarian defence industry, including the companies from the town of Pleven. The minister said that at this stage it is still difficult to answer a question about the indirect effect of industrial co-operation. It will be able to give a more specific answer when it is completed with the selection of performers companies. After the end of the debates, the members of the Defence Committee with 13 votes for the defence committee and 7 votes against the defence committee adopted the following opinion: The Defence Committee proposed to the National Assembly to support the first vote Draft for ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and Lockheed Martin Global INC on an industrial cooperation programme F-16 block 70, No 902-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u274	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Following is a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u275	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of a Framework Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and Lockheed Martin Global INC on Industrial Cooperation Programme F-16 Block 70, No 902-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 July 2019. At a regular meeting held on 18 July 2019, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and Lockheed Martin Global INC on Industrial Cooperation Programme F-16 Block 70, No 902-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 July 2019. The bill was presented by Mr. Lachezar Borisov - Deputy Minister of Economy. The Framework Agreement has been concluded in relation to the updated project adopted by the National Assembly for investment expenditure. Section 8 "Industrial cooperation" of the Investment Expenditure Project states that industrial cooperation aims to increase the capacity of the Republic of Bulgaria or the creation of the Bulgarian defence and security industry to ensure the strategic interests of the Republic of Bulgaria. Each potential supplier is required to propose industrial cooperation projects in the following three areas: building national capabilities for logistics maintenance of aeroplanes at intermediate level of operation (Ka1lopa1 Level-2 Capabilities); long-term cooperation with the Bulgarian industry with the aim of developing industrial and technological capabilities in the Republic of Bulgaria and building capabilities in the field of security and defence. The most important of the three areas is the establishment of national capabilities for logistical maintenance of aeroplanes at the intermediate level of operation. The aim is to achieve a maximum possible level, both from an economic and technological perspective of independence in the operation and maintenance of aircraft in the Republic of Bulgaria. The Framework Agreement contains clauses which require the National Assembly to ratify it on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Following the discussion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for the so- proposed bill, ending its discussion with the following results: With 11 votes in favour, 7 votes in favour and without abstention, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to support the first vote Draft for ratification of a Framework Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and Lockheed Martin Global INC on Industrial Cooperation Programme F-16 Block 70, No 902 02 20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u276	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. There will be no importer's opinion. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u277	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister of Economy, what you have achieved as negotiations on industrial cooperation in connection with this treaty, I think is a big nothing. Most likely this is due to the short-sighted policy that leads this government. There is talk of some training centers, some repair centers, but in the end, when a multibillion-dollar deal is concluded, all of this must be agreed with the partners on the other side in advance before you offer us to ratify this agreement. As I said, and as you say, at this point you have achieved nothing real as an arrangement. How do other European peoples do it? The Czech Republic acquired its fighters at a price of 980 million. EUR for the period from 2004 to 2014 on the basis of the arrangements that they reached for this transaction for the acquisition of their fighters, they produced a production of 1 billion. 160 million. What you are now offering us is a big nothing and, Minister, as the Warsaw Treaty has also been addressed here, two or three of the previous statements have affected the Warsaw Treaty issue, yes, we and the Czechs have left the Warsaw Treaty together, but in this time the minimum wage in the Czech Republic is 520 euros and in Bulgaria is 560 BGN. Half of it. This is due to the fact that in the Czech Republic at the head of the state there is a government that manages forward-lookingly, which protects the national interest, and in Bulgaria at the head of the state there is a government that only and only tries to buy political peace with the money of the people, even by drawing and bringing the people into additional external debts. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u278	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u279	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Prodanov, you are currently facing a Framework Agreement. This is an agreement between the Ministry of Economy and the company manufacturer. In your opinion, there is nothing concrete, because you probably expected us to record: on the fifth floor at the Ministry of Economy we will make a hallway for repairing everything. That's not true. I would like to start with something else first: the Framework Agreement on Industrial Cooperation, very important that you understand the main thing, it is paid. Industrial cooperation is paid and is much more expensive than airplanes. It's a transfer of technology, know-how, transfer of knowledge, and it's all worth a lot more than that. Currently in Bulgaria, unfortunately, we do not have the capacity to repair these 2,000 aircraft, which are currently in the air, and another 300, which are expected. With these parameters, I'm sorry I couldn't come to the Commission you were on. We discussed a precise and clear thing about 100 Bulgarian companies have already been verified. We have an initial analysis of where what will be done and it is done by the company manufacturer who analyzes these companies. What I can protect is that Bulgaria's potential in this sector will be great, but at the moment we have a zero in terms of repair, we cannot pump some tires. We have to start somewhere. You compare two things to the Czech Republic. I don't want to take attitude, but I'll take it. Firstly, you compared for a 10-year period of this action what was the profit of the Czech state and the Czech industry. [[Heckling]] I'm sure it is, but it hasn't started with us yet. Let's ratify the agreements, let's start because right now I can do an analysis of the following: the costs that we will have from now on for these aircraft.. consumables, repairs, major repairs, fuels at the moment, of those which are given as an opportunity by the company manufacturer will remain in the Bulgarian economy. Whether we will appear on the international market yes, this is our ambition and goal, but it depends on the Bulgarian industry and on the professionalism that we will have, from the prices that we will give, because these will be competitive procedures, we will have the opportunity to participate in the repair of all other aircraft from these countries, so we have one software. In terms of salaries with the Czech Republic and Bulgaria. Yeah, we're way behind, and we're starting from the same level. It's a fact, but let's not forget there was no banking crisis.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u280	Thank you, Minister Karanikolov. Are there any other statements? I won't. We're going to vote. I put to the vote a bill for ratification of a Framework Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and Lockheed Martin Global INC on Industrial Cooperation Programme F-16 Block 70 No 902 02 20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 July 2019. Vote 169 MPs: 117 against 51, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Saveklieva, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u281	Dear Madam President, I am doing a procedure on the grounds of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which have just been adopted, should be examined and put to the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u282	Thank you. A counteroffer? I can't see. We are voting on the proposal made by Mrs. Saveklieva the procedure for the second vote. Vote 159 MPs: 115, against 42, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u283	THE LAW OF THE ratifying a Framework Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and Lockheed Martin Global INC on Industrial Cooperation Programme F-16 Block 70 Art. 1. He ratified the Framework Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and Lockheed Martin Global INC on Industrial Cooperation Programme F-16 Block 70, signed on 11 July 2019 in the town of Varna. Washington, USA, and on July 12, 2019 in the city of D.C. Sofia, Republic of Bulgaria. Art. 2. Orders the framework agreement under art. 1 shall not be promulgated in the Official Journal. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u284	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the second vote the Law on ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and Lockheed Martin Global INC on Industrial Cooperation Programme F-16 Block 70. Vote 157 MPs: 116, against 38, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We continue with the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLAINTING THE LAW FOR MILK DISCLOSURE. Report of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. Here you go, Mr. Lazarov. You have the floor to present the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u285	Madam President, I ask that you put Mr. Zapreyanov to the vote for admission in the Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u286	We are voting again for admission to this House on this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u287	Vote 131 MPs: 122, against 3, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the guest.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u288	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Military Intelligence Act, No 954-01-49, submitted by Milen Vassilev Mihov and a group of MPs on 16 July 2019. At a meeting held on 17 July 2019, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence tools and the access to data under the Electronic Communications Act examined the Draft for Supplement to the Military Intelligence Act, No 954-01-49, submitted by Mr. Mihov and a group of MPs on 16 July 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence, and Colonel Antoine Gechev, Deputy Director of the Military Information Service. The bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by Mr. Dimitar Lazarov. The proposed bill aims to complement the legal incompleteness of the provision of art. 24, para. 3 of the Military Intelligence Act, formulated in a way that prevents the application of art. 26, para. 1, t. 3 of the Military Intelligence Act. In the order of art. 26, para. 1 comprehensively listed are the requirements for persons who may take up the position of Director of the Service of Military Information. 3 is given the legal opportunity to be able to appoint persons with professional experience in the system for the protection of national security or the armed forces. The two prerequisites are not contained in the text of art. 24, para. 3, according to which a director of the service can be a serviceman of real military service with a higher military rank, leaving out of scope persons with professional experience in the national security protection system. No additional funds are necessary for the implementation of the Bill. Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence, and Colonel Antoine Gechev, Deputy Director of the Ministry of Military Information, spoke on the draft. Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov expressed his support for the supplement proposed by the Bill, stressing that it is constructive and will achieve the possibility of securing the head of the service to benefit from the expertise of professional internships in the system of protection of national security. As an argument for his support, he pointed out that at the time the release of personnel in the armed forces occurred with an age of 58 years and, on the other hand, it should also be in line with the 5-year term laid down in the law for appointment. He gave examples of directors of the service, who were civil servants and functionally did not have any change in the work and activity of the service. In conclusion, he made a proposal to supplement art. 24, para. 4 of the Law, namely the Director of the Office to be appointed and released by decree of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria by decision of the Council of Ministers, taken on a proposal from the Minister of Defence. Colonel Gechev expressed his support for the bill, fully sharing the minister's arguments. During the discussion, the MPs discussed issues on the organisation of military intelligence, making the clarification that the service organizes and leads strategic intelligence, while the joint command of the forces plans and organizes intelligence and intelligence provision at operational level, and the commanders (commanders) of military formations organize military intelligence at tactical level. People's representative Filip Popov, on behalf of the parliamentary group BSP for Bulgaria, said the parliamentary group will not support the bill because it has a negative opinion on it. After the vote, the Commission, with 4 votes for the military intelligence bill, No 954-01-49, submitted by Milen Mihov and a group of MPs on 16 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u289	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. A report from the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u290	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill supplementing the Military Intelligence Act, No 954-01-49, submitted by Milen Vassilev Mihov and a group of MPs on 16 July 2019. At a meeting held on 18 July 2019 the Defence Committee examined for a first vote a Draft Supplement to the Military Intelligence Act, No 954-01-49, submitted by Milen Vassilev Mihov and a group of MPs on 16 July 2019. In the meeting of the Ministry of Defence participated: Deputy Minister Atanas Zapreyanov, Colonel Antoan Gechev The bill was presented on behalf of the importers by the National Representative Milen Mihov, who stressed that the Act enables the Director of the Service to borrow military information from a civilian employee. This regulation has existed and creates conditions for more efficient use of the footage. Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zapreyanov delivered an opinion on behalf of the Ministry of Defence. The Ministry of Defence does not object to the proposed addition to the Military Intelligence Act, which creates the possibility of being appointed director of the Ministry of Military Information. It was stated that the Ministry considered it necessary to supplement the procedure for appointment of the Director with texts in art. 24, para. 3 and para. 4 of the Military Intelligence Act. In paragraph 3, add that in cases where the post is designated as a civil servant, it shall have all the rights of employment other than those which conflict or are incompatible with its legal position and in paragraph 4 shall be supplemented that the proposal of the Council of Ministers for the appointment or release of the Director of the Military Information Service is submitted by the Minister of Defence. The Chairman of the Defence Commission Konstantin Popov asked whether the Ministry of Defence has presented these proposals in the leading commission, to which Deputy Minister Zaprianov responded positively. Members of the National Assembly Nikolay Tsonkov and Kolyo Milev said they would not support the bill because they believe that the previous attempts of the service to have civilian director did not give positive results and fear that the change took place not for general reasons but for specific appointments. In the subsequent vote by 13 votes...... 7 votes against.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill for supplementing the Military Intelligence Act, No 954-01-49, submitted by Milen Vassilev Mihov and a group of MPs on 16 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u291	Thank you, dear Mr. Vassilev. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate on your presented bill. Statements? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u292	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As in the Commission for Control of the Security Services and from this tribune, I declare that we from the BSP for Bulgaria are not going to support this law. The reasons are several, as part of them are the following: First of all, this amendment to the Military Intelligence Act at least contradicts the whole logic of the Law. Because further down the same law describes who implements the operational management, who implements the overall management of this service and not only of it, and these are military people. In 2015, if I make a retrospect, the same colleagues from GERB as the ruling majority adopted this law with the exact opposite arguments of the current "Military Information Officer" should be military. What happens now, a few years later?! The Prosecutor's Office entered the Military Information Office four days ago, on the 16th, the Law was introduced into the Ministry of Justice of the National Assembly, and today the 19th, we look at it here in the Chamber, which is in absolute conflict with the then arguments of the people of the ruling majority and leads to the logical conclusion that a law is being made again for a particular person. What does this law state, what this proposal states, that the Head of the Military Information Service could be a military or a civilian. That is to say, the next Head of the Military Information Service will be a civilian after this proposal is being made, all the more so that the current Director of the Military Information Service, a former one, has filed a report on leaving the service. So once again, parliament is once again making a targeted law for a purposeful person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u293	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Are there any lines? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Here you go, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u294	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We cannot agree to such a proposal for a change in the Military Information Act for several reasons. First of all, this text in the form you are proposing now to be voted on has already been functioning and the results have not been particularly good. I'll just tell you that those who were civilian directors were not well received by the partner services. Let me remind you that "Military information" "Some of you know that it is the oldest intelligence specialized service, not only with the richest history and traditions, but I dare say it is one of the authority services in the entire NATO system." What do we do with such a change? By the way, I would call this change the correction Zlatanov, because because of one deputy director, Janko Zlatanov, who comes from another office, that is, here we are talking about interference, about a blow to the service, you are making a correction for one person. Once again, you.. those in charge, you approach unprincipled, non-state, by offering an unprincipled correction for one person. On top of that, this is related to the problems that arose with the Military Information Service "The Directors, who were accused, the military attaché, which was driving some Bulgarian citizen, that is, here we have a targeted attack against the Military Information Service. Next, what signals do we give to our partner services with similar changes to be a military or a civilian once? You're proposing a change to be military, which is normal, and now we're returning the old situation. Excuse me, but with such constant changes, we do not broadcast stability and security. What made you turn your position to 180 degrees again? What are your arguments? Yes, I know, here you will say that there is a problem when the general reaches his age he must retire, leave. But we can, for example, record it in such a way that it stays and gets out of office, because it is important that this service is led by a man who has grown up in the hierarchy of the Office of Military Information, to know it well, to protect both the state and the service, and not to allow rough interference of other services in the work of related specialized services. Therefore, I ask you to think carefully about the proposal you are making. One last question. We all know the Supreme Commander is the President. What's his opinion? Is he okay with such a change, you know that the new Director's decree is issued by him under the procedure? Is he okay with this offer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u295	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Do they have any other speeches? Mr. Milev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u296	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, it is appropriate to go from the assumption that the generals are prepared people and after this service is called Military Information. It is appropriate to be led by a senior military and the senior military in Bulgaria are not so many that we can lift them up and down from all kinds of positions. Personally, I think the Military Information Service should be run by a general. And this general, who has passed the years of military service, the military hierarchy, has enough expertise to look good. Since the beginning of democracy, all generals who have led this service have been worthy leaders. There were others who were civilians and allowed, perhaps, more weaknesses, so that me and our group stood firm Service, Military information, to be governed by military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u297	Thank you, Mr. Milev. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Lazarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u298	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll try to be very brief. First of all, about the untruths that some of the prefaces have spoken. This law dates back to 2015. ? about this time. Before that, there were civilians, there were former civil servants of the reserve, of this service, to remind it of the people who were not here at the time and did not know the history. After the adoption of this law, the First Director, who was appointed, was appointed to him as Brigadier General, as under the Law the term of office is five years, with the possibility of being extended by another five, but not more. After two years and several months, the Brigadier General, director of this service, turned 58 years old and was released. Nowhere in the Law does it say that the director of this service can only be a civilian! Dear colleagues, who have spoken, we are not changing the order of appointment in this office, as has previously happened in this Chamber, to a certain person, the colleague who mentioned some person, these are insinuations, the order remains the same on a proposal from the Council of Ministers, with a decree of the President, in all the conciliation procedure, and there will be determined who and how can be appointed. This text, which also works in a conversation with colleagues acting military by the Ministry of Defence, has not been actually imported by GERB and I want to distract this bluff, this untruth. This was a text on the importer proposal of the Bulgarian Socialist Party at the time. Since then General Mihov's configuration had suggested that he could be a reserve officer, but then he voted like this. Colleagues from all parliamentary groups, I personally voted against this being only military with a higher military rank. What's changed since those four years? Dear colleagues, it turns out that this is a discriminatory text against the employees of the Military Information. In the State Agency of National Security the age is 64 years and few years of employment, where they can serve, be directors and develop deputy directors. In the State Agency are state officials and the age is 63 years under the Law on State Employees. You are here limiting the possibility of developing employees in this service. If this deputy director has two years to his age and becomes Director of the Office, he will serve as such a year and a half or two, and then you will say goodbye. This man, who went to schools, educated, came into contact, had a very good assessment by partner services, should be released on this discriminatory text, as it is now. Well, he can go work at the Ministry of Defense, all of them directorates as a Brigadier General from the Reserve, but he won't be able to continue his term. Because what we are proposing now means yes, military with a higher rank, and after reaching the age of 58, she can continue her term of office for another three years, the President can reassign him for another five years. Is this the person who has no view of the ministry and has worked in it for 10, 15, 20 years, has been for two, three, four, even five years Director of the Service, and will he not have a look if he is reassigned for another term when the final age is completed?! In this case, the term of office of 58 years may be terminated, it may go to work at the National Security Agency. There is no obstacle to it, up to 60 years they may use its capacity. Yes, he can go to work at the State Intelligence Agency for up to 63 years, but the military will not use his capacity, and this is a problem. I do not want to go into the subject more deeply, which exists in the army, but they will solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u299	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. You have the floor, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u300	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Lazarov, his name is Office of Military Information. It's normal for the director to be military. In the context of your reasoning, we will make proposals so that we can resolve this issue with the reaching of the Director General's age limit, how can we preserve it and continue to exercise its powers? So rest assured, we are thinking about the Military Information Service and we will offer a text that we hope you will support.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u301	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Another line? A line, Mr. Manev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u302	Mr. Lazarov, I've been listening very carefully. On top of that, I've also signed as an importer under this bill. I only have one remark. You said you shouldn't go into any dredges it really is, the subject is serious. Only one thing you tell your colleagues that while they think about the Office, you are acting, we are acting for the Office and for the people who are in charge of it. Explain it to them in two more sentences, because they obviously can't understand you otherwise.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u303	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Third line? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u304	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Regarding the protection of national security, and hence the development of the security services, I was provoked as a matter of fact by Mr. Manev. This is not the speed of the 16th Law to be tabled, but the 19th to be voted on! This is not thinking for the services. This is counterproductive for the services! Absolutely counterproductive for the development of the services! Because this instability in the topic "Secure and development of the services " 2015 so, 2019 otherwise, on the 16th is imported, the 19th is voted, is not thinking about the development of the services. Here we should all sit down together and think about the development of the services so that the Law can really develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u305	Thank you, Mr. Popov. A hole, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u306	Dear Mr. Chairman! Until 2015, there were no laws regulating security services except 2008. "St. St.Agency Agency" (National Security Agency). 2015 in spite of your concern from the left side of the hall, colleagues, at some points we reached an agreement for which the MPs from the parliamentary group "Coalition for Bulgaria" or from BSP were cooperating. Yeah, but then the Military Intelligence Act was passed, the State Agency Act was passed, and the National Security Service Act was passed. A common law has been adopted for the system of functioning of the national security services, where, with your consent, we have agreed that, in order to use capacity in this complicated situation, they can switch from one office to the other. Also from the Ministry of Interior. Regarding what we change, we do not change which person this law is made for. Yes, Mr. Manev, we are really trying to remove this discriminatory norm, but some colleagues seem to be more concerned with names, people, who it will be. If anyone claims we're making a law for a certain person, I won't argue that any person will be the President's face because he's issuing a decree. I can't afford to do that. Obviously, some Members from the left side of the Chamber do not care about the legislative settlement. They care about who, where and how. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u307	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Zablyanov wants to speak. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u308	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly... [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u309	Colleagues, please be quiet. I understand that you're...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u310	The National Assembly has been working for a very long time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u311	It's normal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u312	Can you extend the group's time?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u313	You're gonna have to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u314	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am concerned by the arguments presented in favour of this change. First of all, because it is alphabetical truth that there are two types of hierarchy in the state of modern times...................................................................................... The fact that there are two types of hierarchy does not mean that non-military civil persons are discriminated against. I think that the reference to discrimination in this case is not only not working, it is an attempt at quite superficial manipulation for a solution or a proposal that is motivated by other facts and conditions. As to whether the military should run the Military Information Service. Excuse me, but the military hierarchy implies, in addition to the hierarchy of rank and position, mixing it with civil servants.....................in the army, in the military structures. There are people here who follow the discussion and have been in these departments, and are aware that civil servants under contracts in the military departments have always had an auxiliary function. Turning civil beginnings into a leading start in military institutions changes the whole meaning and logic of the functioning of the military institution! The head of military intelligence is subject by law to the Minister of Defence and the Constitution of the President! On top of that, he is not merely subject to this law, but to the law of military rank and rank! That is, what is currently being proposed violates basic principles of military construction, security services! This is not just a discriminatory measure. This is not about minorities, Mr. Lazarov. This is about Bulgarian military intelligence. What you are proposing is not justified in any way. There is no way you can get support for such legislative change! This change is offered in the absence of the Minister of Defense. We've been listening to his considerations here all morning on the high-tech issues of the development of our army. This question, I assure you, is equally important, if not more important than the one we discussed before. I see no reason for the Secretary of Defense to be absent. I see no reason why the majority should not comply with the High Commander's opinion. What you're doing right now...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u315	The Deputy Minister is here.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u316	Great. However, since the Minister is the main figure under the Law, we should hear his opinion on this. I am puzzled by the fact that the Minister has no opinion on such a key issue as the one we are currently looking at. The change you are proposing does not concern and does not affect only the so-called by Mr. Lazarov................................................................................................ In military structures and in every professional structure there are internal rules for growth. This is known by everyone. These rules are clearly scheduled and regulated! And when personnel appointments are carried out outside these rules, they are contrary to other rules! I do not want to get into the subject, which has already been made public in the last two weeks, about the investigations against the current management of the Service. What's this about? No one reported or gave any information on the subject. What is the state in which a specialized service such as DANS, a civilian service, deals with military leadership and investigates it? I do not want to go back too far, but you are all aware that when it came to investigating and law enforcement in the Bulgarian Army, there were specialized authorities. What is the guarantee that there are no other motives for the changes being made at the moment and for everything we observe? What is the guarantee of state security in this regard? After the President spoke against, do you not think it is entirely justified to postpone this legislative change in order to hear the views of the President and the Minister of Defence? I am proposing to postpone the adoption of this legislative amendment by two weeks. Please put it to the vote. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u317	It's a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u318	I'm making a counterproposal, Mr. Chairman. There have been many untruths here. I don't want to get into it. The Hierarchy, the Command, the Secretary of Defense was supposed to be... The Minister of Defence is a civilian. It was the time when the Secretary of Defense was a general.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u319	Army General!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u320	Army General, yes. Well, the president, the commander-in-chief, is not a soldier! He could have been a soldier, he could have been from the reserve, the previous president, the next one could be civilians! That is why I am making the opposite proposal....... there is simply no point in delaying anything. Not to mention the other bunch of things that have been said here in one of the parts. We're not changing anything! Agreed, on a proposal from the Council of Ministers submitted by the Minister of Defence, by decree of the President, honourable Members! Agreed! That's the procedure. As far as other topics are concerned, I do not want to go back, in 2008, which ones, how, which offices are made by SANS.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u321	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. I put to the vote the procedural proposal of the MP Valeri Zablyanov. Vote 151 MPs: 38, against 109, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. Let's move on. Are there any other statements to be made? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. I put to the vote a bill supplementing the Military Intelligence Act, No 954-01-49, submitted by the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. Vote 151 MPs: 117 against 34, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Go ahead, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u322	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! It was mentioned in the debate on the opinion of the Ministry of Defence and the Minister "It was presented to the Defence Committee." No serious objections or differing views were expressed. The correction is very short. In a word, I am making a procedural proposal to shorten the period between first and second readings of three days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-19.u323	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 147 MPs: 115, against 29, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, the next regular plenary session of 24 July 2019 at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
