ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u1	We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. We'll start with the first point for today: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE EUROPEAN COUNCIL'S CONVENTION FOR KINEMATOGRAPHIC CO-PRODUCTION (REVISED) 30 JANUARY 2017, ROTERDAM. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Report on the first vote of the Committee on Culture and Media. Who's gonna present the report? You have the floor, Mr. Budinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm doing procedure on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u3	I shall put to the vote the motion for admission to the Chamber. They voted 122 MPs: 119, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please provide the Report of the Committee on Culture and Media.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u4	♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Cinematographic Coproduction (revised) 30 January 2017, Rotterdam, No 902-02-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 September 2019. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 26 September 2019, a Draft Law on ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Cinematographic Co-production (revised) 30 January 2017, Rotterdam, No 902-02-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 September 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Culture: Rumen Dimitrov, Deputy Minister, Aksenia Boneva, State Expert at the Directorate of International Cooperation, European Programs and Regional Activities, Vesela Sterevna Secretary; and Karin Yanakieva, Senior Expert at Film and Film Exhibition at the Executive Agency of the National Film Centre. The bill was presented by Mr. Rumen Dimitrov. The proposed text is essentially a revised text of the European Convention on Cinematographic Coproduction of 2 October 1992, signed by the Republic of Bulgaria on 9 September 2003 in Strasbourg. On 1 April the Convention was ratified by law of the 39th National Assembly and entered into force for the country from 1 August 2004. The signing of the Council of Europe Convention on Cinematographic Coproduction (revised) was launched on 30 January 2017 in Rotterdam and since then 29 countries have signed it and 14 have ratified the new text. The revised Council of Europe Convention shall be in force from 1 October 2017. Bulgaria shall sign the revised text of the Convention on 12 June 2019 in Strasbourg. The Council of Europe Convention on Cinematographic Coproduction (revolutionary) aims to promote the development of international cinematic co-production, taking into account today's technological, economic and financial evolution in the film industry. Among the changes aimed at greater flexibility for co-producers are the maximum and minimum participations in multilateral co-production, which become 80% instead of 70% and 5%, respectively, instead of 10%. In the bilateral co-production, the demand is 10% instead of 20% and the maximum 90% instead of 80%. The reduced minimum participation rates for multilateral bilateral co-productions will not result in the need for additional funds for film production. An important change is the opening of the new Convention for Signature and ratification by countries outside Europe. Thus, in the future, each Party to the Convention will be able to obtain an official co-production status with a country outside Europe which is also a participant in the Convention, without having to have a bilateral contract between the two Parties. Bulgaria has participated in all stages of the work on the change of the Convention and has been represented by experts from the Executive Agency of the National Film Centre and has approved the final version proposed for ratification. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Agreement must be ratified by law. As a result of the vote held unanimously with 13 votes, the Committee on Culture and Media proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft for ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Cinematographic Coproduction (revised) 30 January 2017, Rotterdam, No 902-02-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 September 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Budinov. Colleagues, you have a say in this. Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u6	I guess there won't be any more speeches. My fellow Members, I am quite surprised by everything we do. Here in the culture, in the cinematography again, re-aglations, again conventions drawn by the Council of Europe, by the Big Brother, by the chiefs, the masters, I don't know what to call them. I will make some inquiries, as Comrade Todor Zhivkov once said, who, here in the hall, has many fans. I'm not a fan of him not understanding that I'm quoting him, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u7	Don't make excuses!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u8	I'm sure Comrade Todor Zhivkov would be very surprised if he were alive. I use this phrase several times: didn't we make a revolution to allow culture to develop freely, to have its drive, to make artists independent? We're listening here for some rates of 10%, 20%, some countries involved. Is there an adjustment here, my fellow Members? This is similar to cucumbers. The famous regulation on curves and cucumbers. It's the same thing. When we do these crazy things and again all of us unanimously, without thinking about it, without voting, and we will clearly vote on what stands in the way here, we need to understand how far this madness has gone to regulate everything in life. Well, it wasn't so much communism, my colleagues! Now, I don't know, as it goes, the air we breathe will be adjusted! For me, one of the biggest nonsense with these regulations, with all we are voting on, is the European Union, i.e. the European Commission, a number. We've come this far, and I don't see where we're going anymore. Think about what we're doing and what we're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Budinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Some Members have not heard exactly what I have read and what is the purpose of the Council of Europe Convention on cinematic co-production. The goal is to conform to today's technological, economic and financial evolution in the film industry because the film industry is developing. An important change is the opening of the new Convention for Signature and ratification by countries outside Europe. Thus, in the future, each Party to the Convention will be able to obtain an official co-production status with a country outside Europe which is also a participant in the Convention without having to have a bilateral agreement between the two Parties. It is about becoming more flexible and easier co-productions and helping the development of cinema around the world, and we being an adequate part of it, because I think that Bulgarian cinema has been developing a lot lately, as you can see, we are winning a lot of good international festivals and awards. I think what we're doing is very good, and we shouldn't be looking under the ox. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Budinov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill ratifying the Council of Europe Convention on Cinematographic Coproduction (revised) 30 January 2017, Rotterdam, No 902-02-25. 140 MPs voted: 137, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Mr. Budinov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u12	Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to adopt a second vote Draft for ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Cinematographic Coproduction (revised) 30 January 2017, Rotterdam, No 902-02-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 September 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u13	I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 134 MPs: 130 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u14	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Cinematographic Coproduction (revised) 30 January 2017, Rotterdam A single member. Ratifying the Council of Europe Convention on Cinematographic Coproduction (religious) 30 January 2017, Rotterdam, signed by the Bulgarian side on 12 June 2019 in Strasbourg.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u15	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of the Import Act and the content of a member solely by importer. They voted 130 MPs: 127, none, abstention 3. The texts have been adopted. Thank you, dear Mr. Budinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u17	Declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Tomorrow, October 5, we celebrate the International Teacher's Day. To people who have taught us not only knowledge and skills but also to stand up for ourselves, to those who teach our children today, we can say a great thank you. "Recommendations concerning the status of the teacher" is called the document in 1966, which is signed in Paris, and thus marks the beginning of the International Teacher's Day, which is celebrated today in over 100 countries around the world. The status of the teacher is at the heart of our management program, GERB because the result of the neglect towards him and the system of education in the years of transition, putting him at the bottom of the social ladder, and mostly during the time of red governments, we see him now and we pay him now. That is why GERB chose at the heart of the changes that we have stated and defended, namely the raising of the status of the teacher. For us, the higher remuneration of teachers along with the constant increase in their qualifications is of key importance. The decision on the double wage increase until the end of this term is not a sudden decision, but part of the consistent policy that we conduct over the years, for quality education, for motivated teachers and for overcoming illiteracy. We have always worked with the clear awareness that without literate people there can be no economic stability and perspective. In 2019 for the first time, the average gross teacher's salary surpasses the national average, with regions in which it reaches BGN 1500. In 2021 it is expected to be close to BGN 1750. The growth of the minimum wage for a teacher under a regulation for the period 2009 - 2019 is 104%. I would point out that for this 10-year period only during 2014 the Oresharski government did not provide funds for an increase in teachers' salaries in the state budget. An additional 1 billion is envisaged for the double increase in remuneration. Three hundred and eighty million. lv. within the four-year term of GERB. Such growth is unprecedented for the state budget. For 2020, an additional 360 million were estimated with the budget forecast. lv. for an increase in the salaries of pedagogical specialists, which is 30 million. lv. More than 2019, however, the remuneration is only one of the measures we take to support teachers in Bulgaria. Since 2009, we have invested over 65 million. lv. for qualification, starting from 2019 a new National Program "Motivated teachers" started with a total budget of million and 700 thousand. lv. With funds under the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" in 2018 started the implementation of the project "Qualification of pedagogical specialists" with a total budget of nearly 20 million. lv. Colleagues, I know that most data in one declaration weighs, but we have to note that these are not just numbers. It is important when we share our philosophy, our vision and strategy for the protection and development of the teaching profession, to remind ourselves of our ultimate goal. It is also important that the way we walk does not become overwhelmed by the challenges of everyday life. Therefore, I would stress that we have already expanded the possibilities for financing transport costs and for renting teachers in teaching in another locality. We have regulated reimbursement of travel expenses in a private car. Through the introduction of free specials only from I to IV class we found over 8 thousand. Jobs for educators. At the beginning of our first term in 2009, we introduced the system for career development of teachers. Dear colleagues, this is only the beginning, the basis of the policy of GERB party for education, subject to traditions and one of the future in which our children will live. If we do not make these changes, if we do not actively fight for every change, we will not be able to overcome the challenges that have accumulated over the years, because every change happens in education extremely slowly and gives results after years. Otherwise, Bulgaria will stand in the European Union reports with a recommendation that the need for better training of teachers in order to address the challenges in classrooms is great. I can clearly say that overcoming the challenges of education is done only with concrete solutions, with successive steps and funding, and understanding from all of us that it is necessary. We have these three factors, and we have the mechanisms for their realization. The provision and protection of the social and professional status of the teacher is a primary task because this is the way to be the leader in the new classroom. The leader who knows the way to the right answer and can direct the children to it. The leader, who is completely free and professionally responsible in his work. The leader, who has enough time to create, explore and work with the children, not with the officials. The leader who has parents as partners. The leader, who is the state guarantee that education, and quality education, is available to every child. Because the big task is to have educated and adequate generations of our time, and that without a teacher can't be done. We need to work together on this so that we can achieve the education that will guarantee us the country that we want a state of security, a state of peace and a state of economic stability. Happy Thanksgiving, dear teachers! Bow to your work! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u19	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. There is something symbolic about October 5 is the holiday of both Stara Zagora and education. [[Applause, noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u20	Bravo! Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u21	Thank you, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u22	Thank you. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period 27 September " 3 October 2019' from: - National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov to Krasimir Karakachanov - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence on the policy of the Ministry of Defence towards modernization of the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 11 October 2019; - MPs Aleksandar Simov, Aleksandar Paunov and Georgi Gokov to Mladen Marinov, Minister of Interior, on the policy of the Ministry of Interior in countering the activities of foreign intelligence plants from countries of the European Union and NATO against the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 11 October 2019. We have written answers from: - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov to a question from the National Representative Yordan Yordanov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Stanislav Vladimirov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Nikola Dinkov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the MPs Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Jeleva; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the National Representative Mihail Hristov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov and Radoslav Stoychev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Filip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev. We're moving on. Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health, will answer with a general answer to questions from: - MPs Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev on raising the remuneration of medical specialists in health care; - MP Georgi Mihaylov regarding requests to raise the remuneration of nurses and health workers. In the procedure I will give the floor consecutively, in the order in which the MPs were represented, to develop the issue, after which Minister Ananiev will have six minutes for a common answer, as the questions concern the same topic, and we will continue with lines of order. Here you go, Mr. Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Tensions in the community of healthcare professionals have escalated for more than six months. At the Prime Minister's instructions, you have announced that you have found the funds of 50 million. BGN, which you will provide to the medical institutions to increase the remuneration of these specialists. In the Prime Minister's words, however, the funds provided are 86 million. lv. At the same time, protesters claim that their remuneration has not been lifted. My question to you: how much money has been made available to medical institutions in order to increase the remuneration of health care professionals and, at the expense of which item of the budget, what is the mechanism of increase that medical institutions must implement according to your instructions, and why has the increase in remuneration not occurred at the moment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u24	Thank you, dear Mr. Timchev. Mr. Mikhailov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u25	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I will not dwell on the extremely unpleasant logistics for me, which in the last 36 hours has been going on all the media in the country. You've given your explanations in the media, I suppose you'll repeat it now. I would like to ask you on behalf of our parliamentary group and on behalf of the healthcare professionals, on behalf of the doctors in Bulgaria, as a Member of the National Assembly, I think that I can represent at least some of them: what do you really think after all that is happening after two years talking about this issue that the system is sick, you admitted it here in this Chamber, after we talked about not having health care professionals and doctors in Bulgaria worthy of remuneration, after all that has been done as a construction so far in the last six months is not working, they show the tickets that are not at the poverty line, Mr. Minister, but at the limit of humiliation, which is even more frightening for one of the professions that provide national security? What do you think, as a man who's been running the National Health Insurance Fund for 20 years? I will not talk about the fact that the confusion of two budgets, which are voted separately in the honourable Parliament, is absolutely inappropriate for the Ministry of Health and the Casa's budget to mix them mechanically by you, who are the leading financier in the country. I ask you with all due respect to you and all the years you have spent in Bulgarian healthcare under your posts: what are you going to do, because things have come as the Bulgarian people say the knife to the bone? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u26	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u27	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Professor Mihailov, Associate Professor Yordanov and Dr. Timchev! The increase in the remuneration of staff in hospital care facilities, health care professionals, doctors and others is a priority of government policy in the sector. The Ministry of Health is making systematic efforts to create opportunities in state and municipal hospital care facilities to update the remuneration of medical professionals. The Ministry of Health has initiated and adopted several decrees of the Council of Ministers approving additional expenditure on the budget of the Ministry of Health, which has created the possibility to increase the figures for activities outside the scope of compulsory health insurance, which are subsidized by the Ministry of Health under Ordinance No 3 of 2019. Thus, state and municipal hospitals received additional financial resources amounting to 36 million. BGN, part of which should also have an impact on the level of the remuneration of the staff. In addition, 15 million were allocated to emergency care centres and emergency units in district hospitals. lv. also for staff costs. Apart from that with Annex to the National Framework Treaty with 50 million. lv. from the National Health Insurance Fund's reservation for unforeseen and urgent expenses from 1 June, prices of more than 120 clinical pathways have increased, allowing hospitals to receive more funds under the medical contracts. The effect of this measure will be shown most clearly after the nine-month report. The expectation is that all these actions will contribute to the stabilisation of the financial situation of public and municipal hospitals and medical professionals, including health care professionals, will be able to run at better remuneration in the second half of 2019. As I have repeatedly stated, the role of the Minister of Health is to create a mechanism by which the most fair distribution of the money for the remuneration of the employed in the sector is to be distributed. To this end, the Ministry of Health has established a Methodology for the formation of staff costs and salaries of medical and non-medical staff in state and municipal hospital care facilities. The methodology has been developed so that, on the basis of rules, there is a balance between the financial opportunities of the medical establishment and the level of remuneration of medical professionals, as well as fairness and transparency in determining the individual amount of remuneration. Many hospital care establishments have taken steps to increase remuneration, of course, depending on the financial situation of the particular hospital. A question of the management policy of the medical institution is what specific approach to apply in the formation of the salaries of medical and other staff. According to the latest report for September, the average basic salary currently in nurses is between 700... [[Noise and lines.]] Professor Mikhailov, I'm saying things you wanted to hear! I'm sorry. According to the latest data for September the average basic salary for nurses is between 700 and 900 BGN and the average gross salary is between 1100 and 1500 BGN. In order for there to be transparency, we foresee to the package of key medical-statistical and financial indicators of hospitals, which we started to publish on the website of the Ministry of Health to add information about the achieved basic and average gross wages in public hospitals. Once again, I would like to stress that the employer of health care professionals are the executive directors, respectively hospital managers, but as a minister of health, I have created the necessary conditions with Methodology as a mechanism and rules and with the additional funds under the budget of the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund to update remuneration, which in a number of medical institutions is already a fact and I hope by the end of the year this will be in the majority of state and municipal hospital care institutions. Nurses' requests to increase remuneration are fair, but this can be done gradually and taking into account the interests of other participants in the diagnostic process, as well as compliance with the financial situation of medical institutions. The request of nurses for two minimum salaries as a basic remuneration at this stage will create a level playing field between the individual categories of staff in some of the hospitals and will lead to additional tensions in hospitals. In conclusion, I would like once again to mention the comments in recent days on the modification of decrees approving additional expenditure on the budget of the Ministry of Health and the link with funds that the NHIF has directed to increase the prices of clinical pathways. Regardless of both sources, aggregately as a result, the additional funds allow for an increase in the revenues of the medical institutions and, respectively, the remuneration of the staff employed therein. The decision is both the government and the Supervisory Board of the NHIF and thus legally provides more public financial resources. This is one of the steps to solve the problem of remuneration. We will carefully analyse the situation and the levels of remuneration reached in state and municipal hospital care facilities every month, and if there is an opportunity for a next step in this direction, we will take it as I have always stressed that this is not a single action of the government, but a strategic policy goal in the sector. It should be stressed that the Ministry of Health finances only 147 medical institutions for activities within the scope of hospital medical care, and the National Health Insurance Fund over 350 medical institutions. From the conversations I've had, I don't see any tension in hospital care. We have the support in the actions taken and by the word organization of the Bulgarian doctors. Everyone is happy that a new step has been taken to solve the wage problem. I have always mentioned to you that this is not a single decision of the government. We want to solve this problem, and until we solve it, we will look for all possible tools to create peace among nurses and medical staff to work as they wish in the conditions they wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u28	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Dr. Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I thank you for still admitting that the protest of medical professionals is fair, but what is happening in recent days, and your answers in me confirm the feeling that the Health Insurance Fund continues to be a subsidiary of the Minister of Finance. A few years ago, a billion and a half were diverted from the Cashier, and now why not divert 50 million? Even if this accounting equilibrystika you made it, it did not result in a real increase in the remuneration of medical professionals. Once again, you deceive society and medical professionals in order to reduce tension. We have offered to do interparty consultations because for us this model of funding for healthcare is vicious. Something like that didn't happen. For us, this is a priority and a non-party issue. The budget of the state and the National Health Insurance Fund are now to be voted on. We expect legislative initiatives and changes from you. There aren't any! What are you going to do about it? What is this methodology that you told the hospital managers when they are commercial companies? How will you influence them? You say you've also increased the cost of some clinical pathways. What kind of clinical pathways? Some of the hospitals may not work and may not have contracts on these clinical pathways. So the scissors between the financing of the various hospitals will increase and some hospitals will accumulate duties and others will be rich. Which hospitals are we talking about? Only for private hospitals or for public and municipal hospitals? There are many vague answers on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u30	Thank you, dear Mr. Timchev. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u31	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Doctor Timchev, undoubtedly the National Health Insurance Fund has its own budget, it is a public organization, it has its Supervisory Board, which makes the decisions to spend the funds of the National Health Insurance Fund. The Supervisory Board did so when deciding to increase prices in 121 clinical pathways. I've been hearing from different media lately that it's almost only the children's specialties that have been increased. You are looking at the list of 121 clinical pathways that have been changed and increased. Of these 121 clinical pathways, paediatrics are 14 and adding neonatology to 11 are 25 clinical pathways. The rest are all over the spectrum of medical majors. Under no circumstances should you consider that we have only solved one problem. On the contrary, we have tried to increase the prices of most clinical pathways, which for years have been underestimated and could not provide normal working conditions for medical staff in medical facilities. However, I do not want you to underestimate the importance of clinical pathways related to child health. They were really underestimated. We have now created conditions not only for medical professionals to work well in these kindergartens or wards, but also for quality treatment that we all want both the parents and the relatives of these children. In no case can you claim that the National Health Insurance Fund is almost no secondary distributor or part of the Ministry of Health because, you know, there are representatives of both employers, trade unions, patients and the state in the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund. That is, collective decisions are taken which take into account the interests of all these countries.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u32	Thank you, dear Minister. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You have the floor, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! I see that the attention to this so neural problem from the auditorium, especially on its right, is very serious in quotes. I would like to draw your attention quite frankly and quite sharply to a few things. You continue for two years to jealously guard the backbone of the system through trade companies and clinical pathways. Here, in front of the Bulgarian viewers, in front of the Bulgarian citizens, I tell you as a doctor with 36 years of practice: healthcare is not a shop. There is no way, when you increase the prices of clinical pathways and officially state in the media that, you see, hospitals can't meet those who don't have patients. This isn't about a tailor or his clientele. All over Europe, the scheme for the payment of health personnel' incomes, the police, the army, in education is on the principle that they protect the country's national security. There's no talking about turnover, Minister. It is not said that we have increased the paths and created a methodology. You have also created a methodology at the beginning of your government, which your closest assistants have jumped against, the heads of regional hospitals, the so-called financial constitution. That's why I'm asking you! I don't want to go into the details now which paths are increased, how many percent. You were told here by the honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly in one of the committees. You see how much percentage of the NHIF budget which hospitals consume? You see which hospitals remain in debt and which hospitals are out of responsibilities? All of this you see, but you inherited a sick health system in which there were no large resignations, there was no tension on the streets. Now, after two years, after all the measures you're taking, the team that you're running, things are completely different. So I ask you, as a doctor, to repeat it, with administrative experience, with many years of practice in one of the toughest specialties, listen to the voice of medical professionals, listen to the voice of doctors who say that this system needs to be changed. Otherwise, the avalanche that's gone will sweep us all away because it won't solve things the way you are now, you're trying to solve them. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u34	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u35	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Professor Mihailov, indeed in the last 20 years very few things have been done to change the system, but to address it with a remark and a reproach on me, right to me, I think it is unfair. Because I am the person who, even when I took over this post, set myself a major task to change the model of funding and the organisation and functioning of health care in Bulgaria. You personally participated in the two round tables I made on this matter. I'm not gonna stop, I'm gonna keep going until it comes down to a consensus on how to change the pattern. And we're working on changing the model, evaluating the clinical pathways, introducing the DRG, so I haven't stopped working in a second in this direction. But I will stop when I have a consensus and I can stand before you and present a model that will be adopted by the majority of Bulgarian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u36	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Ninova, you have the floor on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u37	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Dear Bulgarian citizens, on an extremely important and up-to-date topic you have heard from the Minister of Health to say the following things: we will analyze the situation and if there is an opportunity, everyone is pleased with this step to increase the salaries. You understand that none of these sentences correspond to the actual situation in the country. So I'm going to start with facts and I think Mr. Ananiev is not the person who should be here. First, there is a decree of the Council of Ministers of 10 April 2019 in which 50 million was decided. lv. to be allocated from the budget of the Ministry of Health, not to the Health Insurance Fund. Official document of the Council of Ministers. [[Shows.]] There is a second decree of 9 May 2019, this is only one month later, this 50 million becomes six. Official document of the Council of Ministers. [[Shows.]] Since then at least seven times on different occasions Boyko Borisov says: we gave 50 million, knowing that they actually gave six because it is a decision of the Council of Ministers. Mr. Borisov's last statement was from September 12, 2019 and said: "We have sent this money. And I want a double, who doesn't want a double? We invest billions in investment. Yesterday, I had a fight with Ananiev about the 50 million we gave away. Actually, it's not $50 million. It's $86 million. Let him justify himself. So it's not 50, it's not 86, it's six, as you can see from the documents. Minister Ananiev to justify himself, says the Prime Minister, and he, the Minister, completely powerless to cover this lie, transfers responsibility to the Health Fund. However, members of the Supervisory Board of the Health Insurance Fund denied this matter being resolved with them. Moreover, they published the minutes of the Health Insurance Supervisory Board meeting, which shows that such a topic has not been discussed at all there. The issue is that the budget of the Ministry of Health and the budget of the Health Insurance Fund are two different things, that they are two different institutions, that one is a state policy, the other is an independent institution, that aside, but we are witnessing a series of lies from a prime minister through a minister and finally see what state things are in. We met with the nurses at their request, and on their behalf I ask the following question. Not to Mr. Ananiev, it doesn't make sense, we heard his opinion that there was no tension and everything was fine. Mr. Borisov, why did you lie to the nurses and Bulgarian citizens? It's not the Ministry of Health's decision, it's the Council of Ministers' decision. As far as I know, you're still Prime Minister and you're running this Council of Ministers. This time you can't hide behind a headman who's orchestrating a coup. It is your responsibility and your responsibility because under these decrees is the Prime Minister. Dear healthcare workers, you want basically three things: First of all, the Law on Word Organizations that you presented to us. We imported it for Bulgaria on September 11th. It's October 4, 2019. Your law hasn't been dealt with for nearly a month. Make the conclusion about the policy of the ruling majority to you and to healthcare. One month this law does not see any movement that shows any attitude towards you. Secondly, you want hospitals not to be trading companies. Several times from the BSP for Bulgaria and we have made such a proposal, it has been rejected several times. Of course, we'll keep doing it. Thirdly, you want a raise in wages of two minimums. We will put it in the new budget for 2020. But here we believe that this issue of remuneration should not be solved in a piece in each budget each year differently. There must be a state policy here and we do not share that this can be done through methodologies that transfer responsibility to hospitals and directors to each director to determine his salaries. Our policy, which we have proposed and will continue, is that the government, the state that manages it, takes responsibility and that it is a state policy towards health, through a regulation to determine a basic salary for all healthcare workers regardless of what hospitals they work in. On this base salary to be charged already the additional's from clinical pathways, from profits and so on. Dear health workers, keep looking for your rights. The motto of your protest is not fear! Hospitals, doctors, patients, we need you. The Bulgarian society needs you and I am sure that in most part it supports you today. We support you and we are with you! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u38	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u39	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Ninova, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov has not lied to anyone and neither have I lied. 86 million. lv. were provided for the system, with the majority of them going for salaries. I said in my statement that with the September report we will see the real figures. Such is the accounting practice and the accountability that these reports are given quarterly. The fact that the National Health Insurance Fund has provided 50 million. BGN is a fact because there is a decision of the Supervisory Board and there is an annex to the Framework Treaty.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u40	It's not about that. It's not about wages. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u41	That's what it's about, that's what it's all about. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] That's what it's all about. I want to tell you that the Council of Ministers can provide funds... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Listen to me, please. The Council of Ministers may grant funds only by legal order. When we gave away the first 30 million. BGN, we have reached a level of funding of the activities outside the compulsory health insurance. As the protest continued to take place, the Council of Ministers decided that it should support the nurses and made a quick decision by providing an additional 50 million. lv. Why up to 50 million? - BGN? - Yeah. Because we had to collect the necessary information from the medical facilities and see if we had reached the ceiling to the maximum amount that we could legally provide. Then it was established that the only option was to provide that 6 million. BGN, otherwise we would have gone to the European Commission as State aid. As a result, although my colleagues from the National Health Insurance Fund who last night, I think they spoke, the Bulgarian Medical Union said it had nothing to do with the 50 million that the Council of Ministers had adopted. That's not true. How exactly does that 50 million match? lv. with the 50 million that the government accepted? However, they have the right to do so and they had to do so because, as I mentioned in my statement, the National Health Insurance Fund has a contract with all hospital care facilities. And this is the instrument with which the money can go to everyone. We have contracts under Regulation No 3 with only 147 hospitals. There's no way we can support all the nurses in the country. This decision was made quite rightly and precisely by our colleagues from the National Health Insurance Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u42	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We will continue with the next question by the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Mihailov, Ilian Timchev and Anelia Klisarova regarding problems with transplantation and donation in the Republic of Bulgaria. You have the floor, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister Ananiev, the debate has become quite heated and unpleasant. The truth is that when you enter into the next issue, which is once again extremely conflicting about the nation, I allow myself to ask you: when you answer, you have the right as a minister to always take the floor of a declaration of one political power, be correct enough to yourself, to everyone else in the Chamber... [[Reply by MP Daniela Daritkova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u44	Yeah, you're right! Mr. Mikhailov, please develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u45	It's not about Mrs. Daritkova, you and me talking right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u46	Follow the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u47	And let's not always put ourselves in terms of what two or three people want here in this Chamber to be slaves not to the controversy, not to the interests of the nation, but slaves to the Rules of Procedure. I have seen this for two and a half years now, how a certain group of people are trying to turn all parliamentarians into slaves of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u48	That's why it's for the Houses to have democracy and order.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u49	Professor Mikhailov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u50	You want to have anarchy!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u51	No, leave those words for anarchy...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u52	Please, Mrs. Stoyanova, don't come into conversation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u53	We know each other too well to know what anarchy is and what it's like to present everything as anarchy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u54	And what's a lie...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u55	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u56	Professor Mikhailov, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u57	Mr. Minister, the question that we are asking you is now finding no solution again. I don't know what you're going to tell us, but in February, Parliament obliged you to make changes to the transplant program. You presented a program, we told you that this is a paper program, that nothing in it has changed, you came out with a good desire to make a contract with...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u58	Finish your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u59	He's out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u60	Oh, yeah?!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u61	Please don't come into conversation with each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u62	Let's give you the floor, then, so you can talk about transplants, if you want?! [[(GERB lines:]] Mr. Minister, in case he defaulted? [[Comments from GERB: "Don't let him! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u63	I won't let him.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u64	Have some academics. The fact that someone in this room doesn't know academics is his problem. It's been a while. It turns out this contract isn't working again. It turns out that all the other measures that are supposed to be taken are not in place and now we are again at the end of the year nine months after your task, six months after the expiry of the deadline for submission of measures. My question to you and to our entire parliamentary group is specifically not just about lung transplants that are in a tragic situation. These ideas, and I'm telling you, as a transplanter, to transfer sick people... I'll tell you, there hasn't been a single lung transplant in the States in the last six months. You know that very well. I'm sure you know that. The idea of transferring sick people to other continents will not improve the situation. The situation, Minister, will only be improved here if measures are taken here. What is your attitude as a principal? Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for giving me a chance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u65	Mr. Minister, you have the floor. You can answer full.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Professor Mihailov, Professor Klisarova, Associate Professor Yordanov and Doctor Timchev! The solution for the Bulgarian patients in need of lung transplantation is to increase the number of organ donors in the country, to complete the training of Bulgarian specialists especially in the field of post-transplant surveillance and to raise the awareness of the society regarding donation. In Bulgaria the level of organ donation, including lung donation, is low. Sending an organ from a corpse donor to another country where we want Bulgarian transplant patients to be admitted can be seen as a prerequisite for the lung transplantation of our citizens. The final decisions on possible opportunities for transplantation of Bulgarian patients are made by individual countries. Each country distinguishes between national and foreign recipients by giving priority to its citizens, which is why all countries develop their own transplant programmes and expand their donor base. Foreign patients may access the system under strictly limited conditions only if the Host Party has sufficient capacity to conduct the intervention and on the basis of a bilateral agreement. The provision of an organ is an important prerequisite, but not only for the implementation of lung transplantation. There is a need for trained specialists who can provide quality post-traumatic monitoring for transplanted Bulgarian citizens. From the point of view of modern medical ethics, it is not enough for foreign specialists who can perform lung transplantation to complete surgery. They insist on ensuring that conditions are made for the transported patient to carry out appropriate quality pre-plantational preparation and, above all, post-transplantation surveillance in the country that sends it. During the last ten years from 2009 to 2018, the total number of organ donors was 251, of which 138 were realized corpse donors and 113 were from living donors. As a result, 512 transplants were performed. Our country is making every effort to strengthen cooperation for the exchange of organs and to join the............................................................................................ We also joined a platform for the exchange of organs between the members of the organization. As a rule, membership in a partner transplantation organisation does not result in an increase in organ numbers and a promotion of donation. The policy of these organizations is that the candidate country has reached a certain level of organ donation and has practitioners in the field. We believe that it is possible for Bulgaria to become a member of an international organization in the field of transplants after all conditions for the necessary infrastructure for the exchange of organs are met and the quality and safety requirements of the transplants imposed by the International Organisation are met. Again, I note that the proposed amendments to Regulation No 2 ease the access of Bulgarian citizens to quality and timely medical care. Since you have taken this issue into consideration, I will not develop it, although there is a development of the subject in my exhibition. I just want to let you know that the National Programme for Donation and Transplantation is in the finals. We are holding back a little longer because we have brought in special representatives of the patient organizations - two people who have concrete proposals and we want to make it acceptable to all Bulgarian citizens, including those who need transplants. So we slowed her down a little, otherwise she's ready, pretty changed, and you'll see her, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u67	Thank you, dear Minister. The line, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! From my point of view, as a clinician, you as a minister have two different tasks. One task I do not know how you will do it is to address those more than a dozen Bulgarian citizens who need a lung transplant and to do more than you can for the next 12 to 18 months the significant part of them to be transplanted. If you do not do what you explain, this will be a very serious stain on healthcare, which cannot be deleted with methodologies, with the creation of programs. These will be people who have gone away because of society, which has not taken care of them. As for the second National Programme, I would like to share with you that it needs, first of all, serious funding. And I ask you, as many times, but so far it has not happened, ask for expert opinion, give to the Commission what you think before Budget 2020 in the Health Department, in the direction of the Ministry of Health, in the letter concerning transplant treatment, so that we can tell you both as political power and with experience as experts which things can help and how they can help. And as we have just said here, at the beginning of September, we have tabled a change in the Law on Organ, Tissue and Cell Transplants, which will help you as a ministry, to assist society in the logistics of transplants. Again in October, one month later, it is not watched. She's sank somewhere in the filing files. I don't want to think why. The problem that you are referring to in your response and in my remarks at the moment is related to one condition in Bulgarian healthcare. If you do not address this problem as the entire team of the management of the Ministry of Health and of the State should address it, then Bulgaria will be left behind not only in the field of transplants, but also in the field of health at all. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u69	Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Professor Mihailov, I think we're both thinking in the same direction. First, we have conducted short-term training of our specialists in the summer of this year, and from 1 January 2020, we will send 16 Bulgarian doctors in the individual programmes related to transplantation for long-term six-month training. Secondly, with the draft budget of the Ministry of Health, which is presented at the Ministry of Finance, on which we will be having talks next week, we have provided funds for all stages of the transplant: pre-transplantation, the transplant itself and the post-transplantation period for both equipment and activities. We have also provided a resource to stimulate our coordinators on the territory of the country, so you cannot claim that there is a National Programme against which there are no financial justifications or financial estimates. There are, and they're punctual. I hope in the defence procedure in talks with the Ministry of Finance to protect these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u71	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Ananiev is from the MP Valentina Naydenova and is about the compliance of the proposed new health insurance model with the acts of monetary law of the European Union and protection of patients' rights in cross-border legal services. You have the floor, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We MPs from BSP for Bulgaria do not miss the thread with your proposed new health model. The last option, as you can see, is against the backdrop of the very serious problems we have inside Bulgaria. We do not miss the fact that we have Bulgarian citizens abroad, for which we also need to find a place and a solution in this model. That is why my question to you is as follows. In response to a question about the type of National Health Insurance Fund and the new funding entities in the national health system, insurance funds and/or insurance companies, in your proposals, Mr. Minister, a new health insurance model you have stated that the National Health Insurance Fund will also be licensed as an insurance company so that there are all conditions for competition with the other funds. If the National Health Insurance Fund is also licensed as an insurance company according to your model, will it, in this capacity, comply with the regulations for coordination of social security systems, Regulation (EC) No 883/2004, Regulation (EC) No are allowed, Directive 2011/24/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the exercise of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare, constant European practice in the field of social security, and how will patients' rights in cross-border healthcare be protected?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Dr. Naydenova, in accordance with paragraphs 4, 5 and 45 of the introductory texts of Regulation No 883/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the coordination of social security systems, the aim of the Regulation is precisely because of the peculiarities and differences in national legislation to be made and introduced only a coordination system within which equal treatment of the persons concerned under different national laws can be ensured in the European Union and that the right to free movement of persons can be exercised effectively. The regulation introduces measures for the coordination of social security systems taking into account the differences of those systems and not laying down rules for systems. In this sense, the powers of the Member States are to organise national social security systems, with their commitment regardless of the peculiarities of the system to apply the coordination mechanism introduced by the Regulation to ensure equal treatment of the persons concerned and their free movement at Community level, irrespective of the national social security systems applied to them. The coordination mechanism shall be implemented by relevant actors for each of which a specific uniform definition has been introduced by the Regulation. Among the participants in the mechanism are also the so-called competent institutions in which the person concerned is insured at the time of the claim for compensation, institutions on the place of residence and on the place of stay. Therefore, regardless of the specifics of the model to be introduced in the country for the needs of the coordination mechanism, some of its participants will be responsible for determining the competent institutions and institutions at the place of residence of the stay. Regulation (EC) No are to introduce, by Regulation (EC) No are to the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 September 2009 laying down the procedure for the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 883/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the coordination of social security systems as participants in the mechanisms for the implementation of the basic Regulation, an access point and a liaison body which should respond to requests for information and assistance for the purposes of its application. Directive 2011/24/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the exercise of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare deals with the notions of a healthcare provider and a national contact point. A healthcare provider shall be any natural or legal person or any other body legally representing healthcare in the territory of the Member State. Under the Directive, each Member State shall designate one or more national contact points for cross-border healthcare and communicate their names and contact details to the Commission. The Commission and the Member States shall make that information public. Member States shall ensure that national contact points consult patient organisations, healthcare providers and health insurance institutions. On request, national contact points shall provide patients with contact details of the national contact points in other Member States. Visible from this, and I am ending this, Bulgaria can fulfil its commitments under the directive regardless of the specifics and elements of the health insurance model that will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u75	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Line, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u76	Dear Minister, I understand that we must remain calm. In your opinion, we have done what is necessary and we will be based on the arrangements in the European Union, but there are two things that I cannot get after your reply and I will allow myself to pay attention to you. First, if due amounts are to be recovered to Bulgarian citizens who received medical assistance in the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation, by which law will the amounts under the Insurance Insurance Act or the Insurance Code be recovered? Secondly, perhaps over time, it remains to specify further. You see that money is short at the moment, we are making a deferred payment to external health insurance organisations: are you ready, are you working on making very strict estimates in this new health model; will the money be enough to pay us to external health insurance funds? Because you know, at the last meeting of the Commission and in the report on the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, the following data are said that there are many Bulgarians - the number of people who are being treated abroad is increasing.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u77	Thank you, dear Dr. Naydenova. You have the floor, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Dr. Naydenova, what model will be adopted by the National Health Insurance Fund has nothing to do with how we will pay off our partners from the other European countries, as the organization that will finance this activity will finance whether it will be the National Health Insurance Fund or any other private fund, they have the obligations under this social security system, the way and the mechanism by which they will pay off with the medical care contractors in the European country concerned. This one, first. Secondly, the problem, which is related to the obligations of the Bulgarian state to other countries, performers of medical care for Bulgarian citizens who have received it in the territory of the other country, is contained. We have signed agreements with our counterparties from other European countries, we have made a payment plan that we are carrying out precisely. Even at the end of last year, and I think it's been repeating itself for the second year now, when revenues are made on the last possible working day of the year and they cannot be realised for other health insurance payments, we are re-executing even the relevant plan and we are translating additional funds, thereby reducing our burden, say, for the next year. We really have no problem paying our partners from other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u79	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Ananiev is from the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev on European funding in the field of health for the next programming period. You have the floor, Mr. Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! In previous programming periods, projects with European funding of particular importance for Bulgarian healthcare were implemented, such as the construction of oncology centres, which contributed to early diagnosis and reduction of cancer deaths. In mid-October, the European Commission is due to specify and negotiate the Bulgarian priorities in healthcare. My question to you is: Does the Ministry of Health have a planned, developed and specified large strategic project that can be implemented with European funding? If there is none, is there real danger that we will lose the possibility of European funding in the field of health for the next programming period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Timchev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Doctor Timchev, the Ministry of Health will provide its proposals for funding in the next programming period in accordance with the specific objectives that the European social and investment funds should provide. At present, the negotiation process is moving within the prescribed deadlines and there are no indications of delay and loss of the possibility of European funding in the field of health for the next programming period. The projects provided under the Operational Programme are as follows: first, equipment and furniture of the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment for Children's Diseases. Children's health is a top priority in the sector...................................................................................... Taking into account that children's health care is an investment in future healthy generations, efforts to improve health services should focus on ensuring better access and timely guidance to the necessary types of diagnosis and treatment. The second project that we have prepared is support for the development of transplantation and donation, as well as increasing the quality of life of patients on dialysis treatment with the need for transplants. The improvement of the quality of mental health care in Bulgaria as well as the renovation of the building fund in state psychiatric hospitals is the third project that we have planned for European funding. Each of these projects is described in my exposition in detail... what are the benefits and results we will receive, but within the three minutes I will not be able to share it with you. The fourth project, creating 27 mobile teams to regional hospitals to provide medical care in remote and difficult places to access. Next, modernization of the material and technical base of 27 state-owned institutions, companies, by providing modern medical equipment related to the main subject of hospital aid. Next, the need for funding in the field of healing, continued treatment and the construction of hostilities in 27 state institutions, commercial companies. The next project that we have foreseen is the need to finance new conditions for the provision of services by general practitioners in hard-to-reach regions. Where there is no interest in the general practitioner finding practice due to the inability to provide the necessary material resources to build this practice, we will help him through this project that we have developed. Finally, the purchase of three vehicles by air are medical helicopters with which we will really create much more efficient, fast and real conditions for saving human life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u83	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line, dear Mr. Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I'm pleased with your answer. I expected this to be a debate in the Committee on Health and not to ask you such a question. In your reply, I am impressed that one of the projects is for the pediatric clinic, for which the Ministry and the Council of Ministers have already given 100 million so far. Do you not think that this will duplicate funding from both the European and the state in this direction and that this money from the European Union will probably not come for two years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u85	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Doctor Timchev, there will be a debate on all these things when the draft budget is ready and the government accepts it, and, of course, entered for discussion and acceptance in the National Assembly. You know that the European funds also have a special committee in which they are considered very thoroughly, where we have the opportunity to explain, of course, all the benefits and how we believe that we will achieve the implementation of this project. As for the children's hospital, this 100 million. BGN, about which you said, "It is 95 million." 400,000. BGN are designed for design, construction and supervision of the process of construction of the children's hospital. From there, there are two things we need to do. One is to see which of the apparatuses of the wards that will enter this children's hospital is really at a modern level and we will move it to the children's hospital, but we also want to upgrade with modern, modern equipment that can provide complex treatment for our children. There is no match between the money that the state has provided, it has not yet provided, as the process will probably begin at the beginning of the new year and the money that is for equipment and equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-04.u87	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for participating in parliamentary control today. That concludes parliamentary control. The next regular plenary session shall be on 9 October 2019 at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
