ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will present to your attention the Work Programme of the National Assembly for July 17, 2019: "1." Selection of a member of the Council for Electronic Media from the quota of the National Assembly. The procedure of choice shall be in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 12 June 2019. 2. Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency for 2018. Import is the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency on 16 May 2019. 3. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Measurements. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 14 June 2019. 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Chemical Weapons Ban Act and on the control of toxic chemicals and their precursors. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. 5. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Family Aid Act for Children. The importer is Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 13 June 2019. 6. First vote on the bill amending the Social Security Code. The importer is Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 12 June 2019. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 24 June 2019. The first vote was adopted on 5 July 2019. Point 1 for Thursday, 18 July 2019 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act. An importer is Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs on 1 July 2019. He was accepted in the first vote on 10 July 2019. Point 2 for Thursday, 18 July 2019 9. Bill for the ratification of an international contract (LOA) BU-D-SAB "Airplanes F-16 Block 70 and related support (F-16 Block 70 aircraft and associated support), international contract (LOA) BU-D-AAA Importer is the Council of Ministers on 15 July 2019. Point 1 for Friday, 19 July 2019 10. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 15 July 2019. Point 2 for Friday, 19 July 2019 11. Parliamentary control comprising: 11. Debates on questions from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Mihailov, Anelia Klisarova, Ilian Timchev, Valentina Naydenova, Ivan Ibrishimov and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on the policy of the Ministry of Health in relation to personnel security with medical professionals; 11.2. Answers to questions and Please vote on the so-read agenda. Vote 185 MPs: for 155, against none, abstention 30. The motion is accepted. I will read to you and submit bills and draft Decisions 10 "July 16" 2019. Annual report on the state of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to: the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Control of Security Services and Implementation, the use of special intelligence and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Energy, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Commission on Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics, the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Environment and Water, the Committee on Agriculture and Food, the Committee on Transport, Information Technologies and Communications, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, the Committee on Culture and Media, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smu. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Defence. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The Law on the ratification of an international contract (LOA) BU-D-SAB "Airplanes F-16 Block 70 and related support" (F-16 Block 70 aircraft and associated support), international contract (LOA) BU-D-AAA "Boe supplies" to support F-16 and related support (Munitions in support of the F-16), international contract (LOA) BU-P-AAD (Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II rockets, related materials and services (Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II Missions, connected material and services) and international contract (LOA) BU-P-LAR Report on the hearing of the proposed candidates as a member of the Council for Electronic Media from the quota of the National Assembly. The Committee on Culture and Media is an importer. Bill amending and supplementing the Military Intelligence Act. Importer is the People's Representative Milen Mihov. It is assigned to the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act and the Defence Committee. On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I inform the Members of the National Assembly that on 16 July 2019 a Decree No 167 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria was received under art. 101 of the Constitution, by which the Law amending the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 was adopted by the National Assembly on 4 July 2019. It is entrusted to the lead Committee on Budget and Finance to report to the MPs the President's decree and the reasons for it. Messages: According to the Law on the Fiscal Council and the automatic collective mechanisms in the National Assembly, an opinion was received by the Fiscal Council on the Draft Decision of the Council of Ministers on the approval of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Defence Committee. It is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The opinion is published on the website of the Fiscal Council. An updated Audit Programme of the Court of Auditors for 2019 was received from the Court of Auditors in the National Assembly, submitted by letter. No 924-00-8 by the President of the Court of Auditors. The material is made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance. It is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Honourable Members, ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 59-NS of 11 July 2019 on the announcement of Krasimir Georgiev Tsipov as MP from the Twenty-Fiveth Election Region Sofia With an inch. No NS-02-14 of 9 April 2019 was received by the Central Election Commission by letter from the National Assembly, informing that on 5 July 2019 the People's Representative Snezana Georgieva Dukova, elected from the list of the political party GERB in the twenty-fifth election district of Sofia, died in the elections for MPs of the 44th National Assembly, in light of which and in relation to art. 72, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is objectified request CEC to announce as a MP the candidate from the list of the political party GERB in the twenty-fifth electoral region of Sofia. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, para. 1, t. Art. 6, Art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code, in relation to Art. 72, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Announces Krassimir Georgiev Tsipov, with EGN... as the MP from the 44th National Assembly from the list of the political party GERB in the twenty-fiveth election district of Sofia. Please, the Quaestors, invite the People's Representative. Colleagues, please stand up for taking an oath. [[Everyone gets up.]] Repeat after me, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u2	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]] Welcome! Honourable Members, we are moving to the first item of today's agenda: SELECTION OF A MEMBER OF THE ELECTRONIC MEDIA COUNCIL OF THE QUOTA OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. The selection procedure is in accordance with the Rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly on 12 June 2019. I'll read you the rules of procedure: "1." The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates may be present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The Committee on Culture and Media shall present the report of the hearing. 3. Applicants shall be submitted by the importers of the proposals on their order in the list drawn up in alphabetical order of their own names in an exhibition within two minutes. 4. The debates shall be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 5. The vote is evident through the computerized voting system. 6. Where there are several candidates for a member of the Council for Electronic Media, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the relevant names of the candidates, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 7. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. 8. In the event that two or more candidates have an equal number of votes, a re-vote shall be held between them under the same conditions. 9. Where one of the candidates does not receive the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for the vote shall take part. 10. Where, in the case of a re-vote under point (a) of this paragraph, the Member State concerned shall notify the other Member States and the other Member States to the Commission, the Commission and the other Member States and the other Member States. 8 and 9 none of the candidates received the necessary votes, or when any of the candidates opted out before the election of his candidacy by the National Assembly, and he is the only candidate, as well as in cases where there is no candidate, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new procedure for the election of a member of the Council for Electronic Media. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media to brief us on the report. Mr. Rashidov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u3	Dear Madam President, please, on the basis of Section V, p. 1 of the Rules of Procedure for the election of a member of the Council for Electronic Media to be admitted to the Chamber the proposed candidates Galina Georgieva and Iya Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u4	Please vote on the procedure so made.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u5	Vote 157 MPs: 154 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the candidates to the Chamber. Mr. Rashidov, please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u6	At an open meeting held on 11 July 2019 and aired in real time on the website of the National Assembly, the Culture and Media Committee held a hearing of the proposed candidates for a member of the Electronic Media Council under Section IV of the Rules of Procedure adopted by the National Assembly on 12 June 2019. Two proposals for a member of the Council for Electronic Media have been received in the National Assembly for: - Galina Jorova Georgieva, proposed by the National Representative Vezdi Rashidov; - Iya Todorova Petkova-Gurbalova, proposed by the MPs Dragomir Stoinev, Alexander Simov, Ivan Chenchev, Nona Yotova and Chavdar Velinov. Mr. Vejdi Rashidov, Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media, noted that the documents under Section I were presented to the proposals. 1 of the Rules of Procedure and candidates shall comply with the legal requirements for taking up the post. According to Section III of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission's opinion on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army is that they are not subject to verification of the persons born after 16 July 1973. As a result of a check carried out by the administration of the National Assembly it is established that the candidates are not convicted and are not exempt from criminal liability under art. 78a of the Penal Code. Galina Georgieva's candidacy was presented by Mr. Vejdi Rashidov. The application of Iya Petkova-Gurbalova on behalf of the importers was presented by Mr. Ivan Chenchev. After the presentation the candidates added data from their professional biography and expressed their motivation for taking up the position. Galina Georgieva pointed out that her career started in Nova TV, after which she received an invitation for development in Nova Plus, a thematic channel. She was then qualified in two of the leading telecommunications companies in Bulgaria and her work with Internet providers, cable operators and media contributed to her way to the UNFON, where she worked with the Copyright and Related Rights Act and the Radio and Television Act. Iya Petkova pointed out that in the last few years she has been actively working with the media. Given the dynamically changing environment, it bases its motivation for a member of the Council for Electronic Media on three main topics: freedom of the media; security and protection of children from the content which is adverse or poses a danger to their physical and mental health, as well as security of the right to access media services of groups at risk and others; cooperation should be closely linked to the processes of transformation of the media environment. Mr. Vezhdi Rashidov, Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media, noted that no opinions and questions from non-profit legal entities and mass media have been received for the candidates. During the discussion the candidates answered questions from the MPs Vejdi Rashidov, Diana Savateva, Stanislav Stanilov, Lachezar Ivanov, Nona Yotova, Alexander Simov, Velislava Krasteva and Boryana Georgieva. On the basis of the hearing held, the Committee on Culture and Media proposes to the National Assembly to examine and vote in accordance with Section V of the Rules of Procedure the proposed nominations for a member of the Council for Electronic Media from the quota of the National Assembly for which draft decisions on their choice are attached to this report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. Perhaps you'd like to present a candidate, because that's by the book?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u8	Yes, dear Mr. Chairman, I will present the candidate I have proposed. Dear colleagues, to your attention I present Mrs. Galina Georgieva's candidacy as a member of the Council for Electronic Media from the National Assembly quota. She has graduated from her secondary education in the profile of the University of National and World Economy. Galina Georgieva has worked in a number of media, telecommunication companies, internet providers, cable operators. He is currently working at a company for the management of related rights. I believe that her professional biography is a good testimonial for the responsible work required by members of the Council for Electronic Media. I also believe that Mrs. Georgieva will be able to apply her experience in her future activities in the regulatory body, which has many responsibilities and powers. It is in the application of these powers that her work so far will help her... [[Replications by National Representative Alexander Simov]] ...the detailed knowledge of the laws, the provisions relating to the activities of the Council for Electronic Media. I'm proposing her candidacy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u9	Mr. Chenchev, are you going to present the candidacy? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to you the candidacy of Iya Petkova-Gurbalova, who is a doctor of social management at Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski, Master of Strategic Management and Bachelor of Business Management, with a number of diplomas from acquired additional qualifications, including certified mediator. He has more than 10 years of experience in project management and teams, and in the last four years Iya Petkova-Gurbalova has been leading one of the key units in the National Palace of Culture, Sofia Congress Centre, Department of Strategic Development, Marketing, Advertising and Production, realized leading cultural projects, as well as events with the participation of prominent Bulgarian and foreign performers, develops strategic documents and analyses, knows well the media market, the regulatory framework, with high administrative economic and financial preparation. In addition to professional experience in the field of culture and media, it has relevant economic experience, including leading financial institutions of the world rank. In the years Ia Petkova has gained considerable public and international authority. She has acquired specializations in the United States and Belgium. He is a long-standing and beloved teacher of his students at the Faculty of Economics of Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski. Iya Petkova-Gurbalova's candidacy is well thought out. Until now, its professional realization and biography have illustrated strong impartiality in decision-making and enforcement of legal provisions. In her motivation during the hearing before the Committee on Culture and Media Mrs. Petkova placed and defended three priorities of her work in the regulator. Freedom of speech and the role of the Council for Electronic Media as guarantor of freedom of expression; media pluralism and competitiveness of Bulgarian media; promotion of European and Bulgarian works; opportunity to increase cultural and educational content. Secondly, security of the media environment towards increasing media literacy; protection of children from content that can damage their physical and mental health and development; protection from hate speech; attention to disabled people. Thirdly, cooperation, understanding the leadership role of the Council for Electronic Media as a guarantor of public interest in the context of seeking cooperation, dialogue, inception of public debate, necessary reforms of joint work with the institutions, with the media, with consumers, with European partners to support the creation and pursuit of ethical standards. We are united in the opinion that Iya Petkova's work as a member of the Council for Electronic Media will be a guarantee of high professionalism and consistency in the implementation of the Law, and the inclusion of her experience and knowledge of the activities of the Council for Electronic Media are a guarantor of that additional perspective necessary for the publicly expected subsequent development of the Council for Electronic Media not only as a regulator, but as a uniter and initiator of public dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Mr. Rashidov, would you like to present the Project for a solution? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, I present Project! DECISION on the election of a member of the Electronic Media Board The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 24, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 29, para. 1 of the Law on Radio and Television HAS DECIDED He elected Galina Jorova Georgieva as a member of the Council for Electronic Media.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u13	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. I shall put to the vote the draft decision that has just been put to the vote. Vote 178 MPs: 97 against 57 abstentions 24. Please provide the next draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u14	Project! DECISION on the election of a member of the Electronic Media Board The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 24, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 29, para. 1 of the Law on Radio and Television HAS DECIDED He elected Iya Todorova Petkova-Gurbalova as a member of the Council for Electronic Media.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. I shall put to the vote the submitted draft decision. Vote 185 MPs: 84 against 19, abstention 82. On the basis of the votes held, the National Assembly elects Galina Jorova Georgieva as a member of the Council for Electronic Media. We wish you luck, Mrs. Georgieva. Negative vote, come in. What negative vote will you announce, Mr. Simov?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u16	My fellow Members, I voted against the candidate elected, not because I doubt her qualities, but because we have once again noticed a tendency to crush every different opinion in every possible state authority. Until now, in the SEM, the representative of the parliamentary quota was from the opposition and this varied the work of the SEM in the sense that it provided normal work for this body. At the moment, the mandala fell and again we provided a complete dictatorship of unanimity. Most of you have probably seen, or those who have taken an interest, have seen how a BNT chief has been elected full consensus of some forces. Now they're going to add another vote to them. And this again shows us how terrible the situation with the media is, as the body that is intended to watch for freedom in them will now remain completely unanimous and censorship triumphs again. We can't support something like this with our voices. We tried to offer another option, a new, different perspective for the media. That didn't happen. And believe me, not 111, we'll soon be in the last place on media freedom. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u17	Here you are, Professor Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u18	I have a personal opinion, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, if most of you had attended the hearing in the Committee on Culture and Media, perhaps the vote would have been different. I asked these two girls a question. They couldn't answer anything at all. They didn't understand what I was asking them. It's so low that I just can't say anything more. I think anyway, and I still express my personal opinion that this SEM nothing works, that nothing does, that self-censorship in Bulgaria has conquered everything. After all, the last time we accepted the Report in the Commission again, Mr Rashidov was there, I asked them why. They said they were in the way of legislation. Then I said: we are waiting in the Commission for your legislative initiatives, for you to work more rationally, for you to have results, make us proposals, we will recognise them and vote. Not at all. So far, nothing is going to be quiet! And this vote is very revealing. If I've offended anyone, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u19	Let's continue with: REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE BULGARIAN TELEGRAPHIC AGENCY FOR 2018 Importer is the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. Who will present the Report of the Committee on Culture and Media? Here you are, dear Mr. Budinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u20	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Mr. Maxim Minchev to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u21	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 112 MPs: 110, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Minchev to the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u22	♪ I can't believe on a report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial statement for 2018, No 904-00-5, submitted by the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency on 16 May 2019. At a regular meeting of the Culture and Media Committee held on 11 July 2019 the report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial statement for 2018, No 904-00-5, submitted by the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency on 16 May 2019. The meeting was attended by the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency (BTA): Maxim Minchev, Director-General, Borislav Chalakov, Deputy Director-General, Evelina Andreeva, Secretary-General, and Dancho Antonov, Financial Director. The Agency's activity report shall be submitted as required by art. 16 of the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency and was presented by Mr. Maxim Minchev. He pointed out that in 2018, BTA turned 120 years old and is one of the ten oldest agencies in the world. The report traditionally contains information on the activities of the Agency, the role of the media market, international contacts, financial situation, the functioning of the National Press Club and the network of regional press clubs. The agency distributes nearly 1,000 information daily and between 2000 and 3000 photos from the country and the world. In Bulgaria BTA has 31 state correspondents in all major district centres and is a member of all international associations of information agencies in the world, and some of them are founding members. The Director General of BTA noted that in October 2018, the 14th World Meeting of Bulgarian media abroad was held in Skopje under the motto of Media and Memory. In relation to the financial situation of BTA it is noted that in 2018 a budget of 6 484 600 BGN was formed, from them the transfer from the state budget is 4 852 600 BGN. and realised own revenue of BGN 1 632 000 For the same period, costs of 6 853 000 BGN were realised. The Agency's own revenue decreased by approximately 8% compared to 2017. The review presents again the two most serious problems for BTA, which also apply to many agencies around the world: the unregulated use of information by the national agency, which affects its financial revenues; and the correct citation of the source of information for clients with a signed partnership contract, which damages the authority and scale of the Agency. After an annual analysis of BTA production and its realization on the market, two conclusions have been drawn, which it will continue to follow: to create accurate and timely information using verified and authoritative own and foreign sources; to create niche, specialised emissions for individual target groups. During the discussion the MPs Vecdi Rashidov, Diana Savateva and Ivan Chenchev expressed support for the work of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency and asked questions to which the Director-General answered comprehensively. After the discussion, the MPs from the Culture and Media Committee unanimously proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial statement for 2018, No 904-00-5, submitted by the Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency on 16 May 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Budinov. Colleagues, you have a say in this. Mr. Atanasov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u24	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Personally, I will support the Report and the Report of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. Why am I taking the floor? Because, as a former Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media, we were discussing the issue of a serious imbalance in the distribution of budget funds to public media. The Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, colleagues, for a report, is available. I will use the harsh expression with the funny 4 million. 400,000. lv. annual budget, having representation in all district cities. She honored her President Maxim Minchev for opening representations in Moldova and in the Western suburbs. You know that this concerns our national security and the corresponding protection of our Bulgarian interests in these lands, where a huge Bulgarian minority lives. That is why I said I would support the report and call you in autumn, when we see each other again, let's make this budget of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency a little higher. It's not even a million more, but I think they deserve it, given that I do not compare the two institutions here, but look at the budget of the Bulgarian National Radio is receiving a budget of over 40 million. BGN, that is, the difference is ten times more. Besides, let's not twist our souls, I think Mr. Minchev's colleagues will confirm that often many agencies, many websites use the information of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. These are the facts, so I took the floor from now on to predict in the future budget to increase when the time came, this budget of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. Remember what I just called you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Are there any lines? I won't. Statements? Please, you have the floor, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I join what my colleague Slavcho Atanasov said. I would remind the Chamber that it is commendable and that there is no false news in the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency and I think they have received very few awards for this reason. The fact that they are dealing with this funding is more than wonderful and not only that, but they also have their own revenue, which talks about the good management of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. And what's more, yes, regional offices are discovered almost everywhere or everywhere in the country and, of course, outside of it, new ones are coming. It is a matter of national security. The Bulgarian telegraph agency no longer wants any more finances at two hearings. But I would rather join my colleague Atanasov's urging to think on our part and in this direction, because the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency certainly deserves it and we will support the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? You have the floor, dear Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As it became clear, the BTA report was supported by full consensus by the Committee on Culture and Media. Personally, I was impressed by a fact that was pointed out by colleagues, and he deserves respect. Mr. Minchev told the Commission that no rebuttal of news was made at the BTA for the past year. It may seem too positive that will not attract interest, but in my opinion, when we talk about false news every day, we need to take into account what we deserve. Indeed, one of the mechanisms used in the Agency is the verification of information from two independent sources, and this is something that should be encouraged. As far as funding is concerned, yes, this is a topic that is coming in the coming months when we are going to talk about Budget 2020, but along with this, I urge you to open up another topic, and this is the topic of the role of public media, something that has been started several times and does not lead to its real end, namely its actual development. Because we have to realize that when we talk a little earlier, and the subject of freedom of expression, freedom of information, we should not generalise certain rankings. We should try to look at the media situation and realize that when we talk about the content of a media, we do not give an opinion and an assessment of the entire media environment. Because if we look on top of the media environment, which is in Bulgaria, there are many problems, but we also need to take into account the achievements and diversification of the information. But to get back to the topic of BTA and that we need to have an essential, deep, with extremely many opinions a topic and discussion about the role of public media. I think we need her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u29	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Dear Mr. Budinov, you have the floor to present the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u30	Project! DECISION on the activity report of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including Financial Statement for 2018 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 and 4 of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a Financial Report for 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Budinov. I shall put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Thank you, dear Mr. Budinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u33	We continue with the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR MEASURING. The report belongs to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Mr. Kanev, you're welcome to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u34	Colleagues, let's congratulate the new Vice-President of Parliament on the first meeting. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. President, on this bill I first propose to invite for admission in the House Lachezar Borisov.. Deputy Minister of Economy, and Katerina Piperova State Expert.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u35	Please vote on admission in this Chamber. Vote 91 MPs: for 89, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. You have the floor, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u36	♪ I can't believe on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the measurements, No 902-01-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 June 2019; At its regular meeting on 10 July 2019, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Measurements Act. The Law, presented by Lachezar Borisov, aims to set the time limits for some of the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology services at the level of the law, as they are of a specific nature and require technological time different from those set out in art. 57, para. 4 of the Administrative Procedure Code and Art. 5a, para. 3 of the Administration Act. The time limit for the provision of a service is 765 Type-approval of the measuring instruments, including any modification or addition of an approved type of measuring instruments. The bill is in implementation of Decision No 704 of 2018 of the Council of Ministers, which aims to reduce the administrative burden. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 20 votes for the draft, without abstention and abstention. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Measurements, No 902-01-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u37	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. I'm opening the debate on the bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I don't see it. It seems to be indisputable. In this situation, I am closing the debate and we are going to vote. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The bill has been passed. Mr. Kanev, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u38	Colleagues, on the grounds of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of our Rules I make a proposal to reduce the time limit for written proposals under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measurements of Three Days.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u39	Please open a voting procedure as I do not see a reverse procedure. Vote 81 MPs: 80 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. That's what we're gonna do on this point. Moving on to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PROHIBITION OF CHEMICAL ARMOURAGE AND FOR CONTROL OF TOXIC CHEMIC HYMICAL INGREDIENTS AND THEIR PREKURSORS. The report again belongs to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Mr. Kanev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u40	Colleagues, I am again making a motion to vote for admission in this House. We have already voted for Lachezar Borisov, Deputy Minister, Ivan Penchev, Director of the Department of Controlled Trade and Security, Natalia Perovska, Head of the Department of the Directorate of Controlled Trade and Security, and Maya Stoilova, State Expert at the Directorate of Controlled Trade and Security.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u41	Please vote on Mr. Kanev's proposal for admission to the Chamber. Vote 79 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Mr. Kanev, you're welcome to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u42	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Chemical Weapons Ban Act and on the control of toxic chemicals and their precursors, No 902-01-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. At its regular meeting on 10 July 2019, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Chemical Weapons Ban Act and on the control of toxic chemicals and their precursors. The draft Law, presented by Lachezar Borisov, aims at greater clarity in the implementation of the administrative penal provisions and will ensure transparency in the State's control of chemical activities and their precursors covered by the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons and its Destruction. In this way, our country will also fulfil its commitments to the implementation of the Convention. The requirement to stamp applications and declarations to be submitted to the Interdepartmental Commission for Export Control and Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction to the Minister of Economy shall be introduced. The proposed bill does not lead to the creation of new regulatory regimes. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons and on the Control of Toxic Chemicals and their Precursors, No 902-01-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u43	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. I am opening the debate on this bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! You understand that the four we did not support at first reading were from the group of the BSP for Bulgaria. I voted against it, and first I would like to say that in any case we will support in the future all the proposals of the Bulgarian government, which are related to increasing control over chemicals, preparations and derivatives, which can be dual-purpose and which can be dangerous for Bulgarian citizens. So in principle, we welcome the Ministry of Economy's attempt to increase control in this area. However, honourable Members, I think we have reached an agreement with the representatives of the Ministry of Economy to make adjustments to their proposal from the following point of view. First, the proposal for amendments to the Law states: "The person who does not comply with the requirements of art. 10, para. 7 and 8 shall be punished with a fine of 1000 to 10 000 BGN....................................................................................................... That is, there are opportunities for corruption here, honourable Members, as the difference is 1:10. We propose that this difference be significantly smaller. Otherwise there will be a lot so known to the Bulgarian public, talks between the verifiers and representatives of small and medium-sized companies. Secondly, it says here that sanctions can be imposed on companies from 5000 to 25 000 BGN. The difference is five times. And again the question arises: who will determine this penalty; exactly what part and which property of the company will be taken away; who will determine the value of the property that will be taken away? These things need to be refined. In confirmation of our objections, I will tell you that if you read the opinion of the Council of Ministers, the Directorate of Administration Modernization, you will see that there writes, first: Additional information is needed to specify what these infringements consist of and so on. Secondly, the Council of Ministers writes: "The information provided does not meet the requirements of art. 16 of the Ordinance on the scope and methodology for carrying out an impact assessment for the minimum content of the information. Your Council of Ministers is asking for a revision of this proposal. So we have a strong reason to want to edit the texts between first and second readings. It is obvious that this proposal is not well agreed between the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Economy, that is, insufficient consultations have been made to enable the National Assembly to enter a text that has been cleared. In conclusion, honourable Members, if any adjustments are made if appropriate, including on the recommendations of the expert body in the Council of Ministers, we have no reason not to support the strengthening of control and security for Bulgarian citizens and companies respectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u45	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Are there any lines to Mr. Gechev's statement? I can't see. Any other statements on the bill? I can't see either. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. Please vote on the bill. Vote 91 MPs: 75 against 1, abstention 15. The bill has been passed. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u46	Colleagues, the bill is only from two paragraphs. I think three days are absolutely sufficient for proposals between first and second readings. Secondly, we can count on the Ministry and the Deputy Minister to make these proposals. My request is that the MPs who have something to bring in will be good enough for the next three days to give themselves the proposals for changes between first and second readings. My proposal is to cut the deadline to three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u47	Is there another suggestion? I can't see. Please vote on the proposal made. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. That concludes the work on this point. Moving on to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR FAMILY HELPS FOR CHILDREN. Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Mr. Ademov, you are welcome to present the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children, No 954-01-40, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 13 June 2019. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 3 July 2019 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by: Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Denitsa Sacheva, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Dr. Eleonora Lilova, Chairman of the State Agency for Child Protection, Teodora Ivanova, Secretary General, and Vanya Kirilova, State Expert at the State Agency for Child Protection, Maya Vasileva, Deputy Executive Director, and Diana Petrova. The bill was presented by the MP Georgi Gokov. The main objective set by the importers of the Bill is that the proposed amendments to the Family Aid Act for children should be granted one-off aid to each second and third child in the amount of 10 minimum salaries of parents who are provided at least 24 months before birth. Furthermore, importers also propose that aid for the start of the school year for low-income children should be extended not only to the first grade, as it is now, but also to children of the second, third and fourth grade. Importers come from understanding that this is the age at which children grow up quickly and the least the state can do to help them is to provide the necessary means of clothing and shoes for the beginning of the school year. For the academic year 2018-2019 this one-time aid is 250 BGN. The additional funds needed for these measures will be around 90 million. lv. The importers of the Bill are motivated by the following circumstances: The poverty and social division of the Bulgarian society are increasing. People who receive income below what is necessary for normal life compared to the average Bulgarian standards reached 71%. At risk of poverty or social exclusion there are 41% of the Bulgarian children - 510 thousand. The ratio between the incomes of the 20 per cent poorest and the 20 per cent richest rose from 6.5% in 2011 to 6.6% in 2013 and 7.7% in 2018. Bulgaria was among the countries of the European Union with the largest financial spread of the population, which, instead of decreasing, increased. The share of the poor workers reached 10% in 2013. The minimum wage people were 470 thousand s and 21% of the employees. With income below the poverty line, which for 2019 is BGN 348, live over 24% of the population. According to the latest Eurostat data, Bulgaria heads the negative ranking for the highest inequalities in the European Union, measured by Ginny's coefficient. And this negative trend is deepening. The prices of the main goods and services consumed by ordinary Bulgarians are increasing at a higher rate than the growth of incomes. Life support is getting harder and harder. Nearly 2/3 of the costs are for food, heating, lighting, transport, which follows that any new increase puts a significant part of Bulgarian households to a serious test, although there is some growth in incomes. The population of Bulgaria is melting and ageing. In 2018, the country's population decreased by 49,995 new people. With each passing year, the number of living children permanently decreases. 62 197 live births were registered in the country in 2018. Compared to the previous year, the number of live births decreased by 1758 children, or by 2.7%. This terrifying statistic requires urgent, enhanced and concrete measures to stimulate responsible parenting, support for children from low-income families and at least minimum conditions for school attendance. A preliminary assessment of the impact of the bill has been applied to the Bill. It states that support for children for the beginning of the school year will cover an additional 120 thousand children from the second, third and fourth grade. As regards costs, importers point out that the measures proposed in the bill will require around 90 million. lv. These funds can be provided within the framework of the over-execution of the budget and the reserves available without changing the State Budget Act. The Commission received the opinions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Education and Science, the National Insurance Institute, the State Agency for Child Protection, the Social Assistance Agency, the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria and the National Network for Children and Protocol of 25 June 2019 on a regular meeting of the Permanent Committee on Income and Living Level of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. Minister Biser Petkov defended the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, stressing that regarding the proposal for a change in the provision of one-off assistance at the birth of a second and third child, it should be borne in mind that family aid is not only due to the insured persons, but to all Bulgarian citizens who meet the conditions laid down in the Family Aid Act for Children. Family benefits for children are financed entirely by State budget funds and do not have the nature of insurance benefits within the meaning of the Social Security Code. Specific disposable childbirth assistance according to art. 6 of the Family Aid Act for children is the right of all mothers at birth of a live child and is granted without a lucrative test. The setting of a condition for insurance for 24 months prior to birth in order to obtain a higher amount of single birth aid for a second and third child is direct discrimination not only with regard to the parents themselves, but also with regard to their children. With regard to the motive indicated by importers for the proposals with a view to supporting low-income children, it is not clear why it is the uninsured parents who are excluded from the higher amount of aid. As the higher amount of aid is proposed only for insured parents, it is necessary to conclude that importers consider that uninsured parents have higher incomes than insured parents who also receive relevant maternity benefits under the Social Security Code. With regard to the second proposal of the Bill, the purpose of the one-time assistance for children enrolled in the first grade should be taken into account, namely to support the family when the child first enters school and begins a new stage of his development, which is why the family for the first time has expenses for a student for notebooks, school supplies and others. In view of the selection of the target group, of the proposal for the new aid, it should be noted that the share of students dropping out of school in the secondary and secondary stages of education and not of students up to the fourth grade is the largest. This shows that the offer and the reasons of the importers do not correspond to the actual data. Alongside these and other arguments from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, they believe that financial stimulus cannot be a leading measure to promote birth rates and to keep children in school. The promotion of birth rates needs a complex approach and an integrated system of cross-sectoral measures that will lead to the security needed for families in deciding on raising more children. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy does not support the bill. The Ministry of Finance also does not support the Bill, with their main arguments related to the change of state budget and the lack of financial collateralisation of proposals, as well as the contradiction of the Bill with the Public Finance Act. Deputy Minister Denitsa Sacheva presented the main motives with which the Ministry of Education and Science rejected the bill. First of all, she pointed out that the right to education is guaranteed in the Constitution and respectively the basic and average education in state and municipal schools is free of charge. Currently, the state promotes both the financing of schools where children from vulnerable groups have additional financial resources, and for the first time there is unprecedented coordination of institutions in terms of supporting the families of children from vulnerable groups. By building nearly 1,100 teams across the country by teachers, social workers, doctors, police officers and municipal officials, almost 40 thousand children were returned to class. Synchronization with social legislation has been done so as to tie schooling to receiving aid, including to ease the regime for receiving aid in kind. The greatest risk of dropping out of the education system is noted after the 7th grade, and in classes I to IV classes there are almost no dropouts. If there are differences in enrollment, most are due to the fact that children travel abroad. The National Insurance Institute is related to the Bill in its part of the proposed new para. 3 of art. 6. The opinion insists that the expression "insured persons' be refined by specifying for which insurance risks they should be provided in order to benefit from the aid of para. 1 in relation to the proposed new para. 3 of art. 6 of the Bill. The opinion of the State Agency for Child Protection states that the Agency does not support the Bill and makes arguments for this in all paragraphs of the Bill. The Agency for Social Assistance shall not support the Draft Law with detailed arguments under all its paragraphs. The Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria refrains from support for general reasons as well as for reasons of substance. The National Network for Children appreciates the positive initiation of a change in the Family Aid Act for children in the direction of extending the possibility of covering part of the costs at the beginning of the school year for low income families, which is also aimed at children of the upper class, as well as for raising the single birth aid of a second and third child. At the same time, they are making a concrete proposal to extend the scope of children and families who would have the opportunity to benefit from the proposed change, covering children in garden and compulsory pre-school age. For this proposal, the relevant motives have been made. It is apparent from the minutes of the Committee on Income and Living Level of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation that the discussion of the Bill has been thorough. It is indicated that single childbirth assistance is the right of any mother who has given birth to a living child and that the aid is not linked to the labour or social status of the mother. Family aid is financed only by the state budget and does not have the character of insurance benefits within the meaning of the Social Security Code. Only by KT "Support" have supported the Law in respect of § 1 and refrain from supporting the proposal under § 2 on the amount of one-off aid for the birth of a second and third child. The Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Union for Economic Initiative and the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria expressed their refusal to support the bill. These organisations have expressed their willingness to actively participate in the development of policies to support families, but the measures must be complex. Following the discussion, the members of the Commission have not unanimously supported the Bill and it will be discussed at a meeting of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. The discussion was attended by the MPs Claudia Gancheva, Svetlana Angelova, Kalin Popovski, Hasan Ademov, Nadia Klisurska, Georgi Gokov and Violeta Zheleva. Claudia Gancheva noted that it is not clear why this target group was chosen from the reasons of the first proposal for providing one-off assistance to the students of II, III and IV. According to her, there is clear opposition between students from I to IV grade and those from V to XII grade. In fact, all families prepare their students and need the necessary funds from I to XII grade. This is not a good reason only for this target group to be selected. According to the Ministry of Finance, 30 million are needed for this measure. lv. Each year, which is not laid down in the Programme for the Support of Families with Children. On the second proposal of the Bill there is direct discrimination with regard to parents who are provided in the previous 24 months for which the higher aid is offered and those who are not insured. This measure, according to the Ministry of Finance, requires 125 million. lv. Each year, which is not included in the budget. In response, the national representative of the group of importers of the Bill Nadia Klisurska pointed out that the importers were led by the state's ability to provide the necessary financial resources. The importers do not mind discussing the possibility of introducing other mechanisms to help more needy children of Bulgaria. Svetlana Angelova expressed a position that there is no way through social assistance to solve problems with poverty and early dropout of children from the education system. Social assistance cannot be a major tool for combating poverty and covering children more fully in the education system. In addition, it considers that importers have confused the principles of social assistance with those of social security. The provision gives rights to the insured parents, and social assistance is the right of every Bulgarian citizen. Hasan Ademov expressed his concern that the bill, written in this way, brings ethnic taste. If importers intended to support poor citizens, it should have been done through the Social Assistance Act. According to Dr. Ademov, there is a discrepancy between the purpose of the bill and the written texts. Dr. Kalin Popovski commented that the implementation of the bill requires about 100 million. BGN, which will also require an update of the budget in the middle of the budget year and that the problems of social exclusion and poverty cannot be solved with legislative initiatives per piece. In response, Georgi Gokov said that it is really about updating the state budget, but if the will to support the bill is outlined, it can be adopted because the budgetary procedure for next year is now in progress. With regard to whether the bill contains discriminatory elements, Mr. Gokov rejects such a claim, with the belief that the bill promotes sole and only responsible parenting. Violeta Jeleva said she disagreed with the accusations that the importers were only motivated by the reasons for financial stimulus. She developed her understanding that a good social policy requires both social support and financial support, and other mechanisms are needed. The discussion was attended by Vanya Grigorova, an adviser to the president of KT Supporta, who said that the organization supports the first part of the Bill, which is to help students up to the fourth grade. She believes that such assistance should also be available for pre-school education, and the first step should be dropping out of the kindergarten for pre-school education. Regarding the second proposal, not supported by KT "Support" Grigorova said that they find it inexplicable, populist because there is no connection between support, aid and social security. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 7 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposes to the National Assembly not to support the First Voting Draft for amendment and supplement to the Family Aid Act for Children, No 954-01-40, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 13 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u49	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. With the report of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, Mr. Atanasov will introduce us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports at a regular meeting held on 3 July 2019 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children, No 954-01-40, submitted by Mrs. Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 13 June 2019. The meeting was attended by Ms. Zornitsa Rusinova Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mrs. Denitsa Sacheva Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Mrs. Tonislava Sotirova Head of Department at the Department of Social Inclusion at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Stanislav Dimov Chief Expert at Public Relations and Protocol at the Ministry of Education and Science, and Ms. Mariela Licheva Vice-President of the State Agency for Child Protection. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Mrs. Vesela Lecheva, who pointed out that the proposed amendments to the Family Aid Act for children provide specific measures that will stimulate responsible parenting and help low income families. Importers offer one-off aid to each second and third child in the amount of 10 minimum salaries, for parents who have been provided at least 24 months before the birth of the child. The bill also provides for an extension of the scope of one-off aid at the beginning of the school year for students from II to IV grade. The expected result in applying the proposed texts is reducing the share of early dropouts from the educational system children. As a source of financing for additional expenditure in the budget, importers shall indicate the budget surplus, i.e. the funds provided in the framework of the re-execution of the budget of the current year, as well as reserves available without changing the State Budget Act. The Commission received eight opinions on the draft law as follows: - The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Finance, the National Insurance Institute, the Social Assistance Agency and the State Agency for Child Protection do not support the Bill. - The Industrial Capital Association shares part of the importer's motives, but refrains from supporting. - The National Network of Children refers positively to the proposed amendments by proposing an extension of the scope of the beneficiaries. During the meeting Deputy Minister Zornitsa Rusinova expressed a negative opinion on the bill, stressing that the provision of insurance for 24 months before birth is direct discrimination not only with regard to the parents themselves, but also with regard to their children. One-time childbirth assistance by the order of art. 6 of the Family Aid Act for children is the right of all mothers at birth of a live child and is granted without an income criterion. In her speech Mrs. Rusinova disagreed with the reasons of the importer and with regard to the extension of the target group II - IV class for the single aid under art. 2, para. 2 of the Family Aid Act for Children. The fact that during the period of compulsory pre-school and school training monthly family assistance is provided is also not taken into account and that the proposed new version of para. Article 6 10a of the Family Aid Act for children is not in line with the latest amendments to the Law, which enter into force on 1 August 2019. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Svetlana Angelova and Ivan Chenchev. Mr. Chenchev supported the proposed amendments and additions. Ms. Angelova disagreed with the reasons of the Bill, stressing that the amendments and additions proposed in the Bill cannot be an instrument in combating the demographic crisis. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the vote held by the National Assembly, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Family Aid for Children, No 954-01-40, submitted by Mrs Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 13 June 2019................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Will there be representation of the motives of an importer, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to thank you for the opportunity before the first vote to present to the People's Representations tabled on 13 June 2019 by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs from the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria............................... I would like to tell you that in practice, as an importer of the Bill is almost the entire parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and the proposed changes to the Family Aids Act for children are intended to provide one-off assistance to each second and third newborn child in the amount of ten minimum salaries for parents who are provided at least 24 months before birth. With the Bill we also offer the aid for the start of the school year for low-income children to expand not only to I grade as it is now, but to children from II, III and IV grade. This is the age at which children grow up quickly and the least the state can do to help them is provide the necessary means of clothing and shoes for the beginning of the school year. For the academic year 2018-2019 this one-time aid is 250 BGN. Reasons for our proposals as much as you want me to start with the reasons for providing the one-off aid to each second and third child in the amount of ten minimum salaries. I will continue to say that this is only for a minimum of 24 months before birth. The data that anyone can check on the website of the National Statistical Institute for Population and Demographic Processes is, to put it mildly, disturbing. And this year they represent a sad picture and are generally a bleak reading and confirm the trends established for many years, and they are: the decline of the population for the country continues and the number of Bulgarians as of 31 December 2018 is 7 million. 039 people. This, unfortunately, has nearly 50 thousand people less than the end of 2017. The main reason for this is the negative natural growth. The number of live births is dropping. The difference between 2017 and 2018 is nearly 2,000 lively children less. This determines the lower birth rate of 8.9%. For comparison only, I will point out that since there are statistics in Bulgaria the only period with worse values of this indicator is 1995. I will not continue with the infant mortality rate and overall mortality rate, which remain at their traditionally high levels higher than the average European ones. I will just mention that the sense of doom has taken hold of the Bulgarian society. The demographic catastrophe has been a fact for more than 30 years and in Bulgaria there are still no existing policies to overcome this imminent threat over Bulgaria. And while the reasons for the desperate demographic picture can be systematized and described, there are no explainable reasons for the inaction of the rulers on this topic. Here I will remind that the last ten years our country has been governed by GERB. As a reason for Bulgaria to fall into a severe demographic crisis, I will also mention that the number of immigrants is high for our country. I mention this fact without blaming immigrants because how to blame people who are looking for better living conditions for themselves and for raising their children, conditions that we cannot provide here. Human resources are an insurmountable factor for national and regional development. The demographic problem has become a huge challenge to Bulgaria's national security. Therefore, it was imperative and urgent to find and implement measures for a new rescue policy for our country. Any delay in time will cause increased costs of resources and huge economic losses. We will continue to close not only classes in schools but also schools themselves every year. We will close businesses in small settlements, we will have to close and write off the map of Bulgaria entire settlements and municipalities. I can talk a lot more and present statistics and facts, but there is no use in doing so. We do not deny that the outcome of the demographic crisis is in the good social and economic environment. If we fix the economy, the economic environment will also improve and, although slowly, the demographic picture will also begin to improve. Does this mean that we have to stand and wait for unprecedented growth in the economy, because despite the prime minister's praises for unseen and unprecedented growths in the economy for the ten years that govern GERB there is no higher annual growth than 3! We do not deny that a comprehensive and complex approach is needed to solve the demographic problem and the resulting problems, but does this mean that we should stand with our hands crossed and not offer even partial measures that contribute to an increase in birth rates?! The government's inaction on demographic issues makes us submit this proposal for the provision of one-off aid to every second and third child in the amount of ten minimum salaries. I expect support from all the parliamentary groups, and I will tell you here, from the platform, that I will be interested in following the vote of my namenamer and colleague Georgi Markov, whom I do not see in this House, but whom I very much respect, although we are in different political positions, because he has many times, including this tribune, promoted similar measures to assist families of newborn children, implemented in Hungary, which he claims to deliver results in the battle against the demographic catastrophe. With interest I will also follow the support of the DPS, because with the beginning of the summer session they announced certain policies in support of families and children. Now I come to the reasons for our other proposal.. Help for the start of the school year for children from low income families to expand not only to I class as it is now, but also to II, III and IV class. And here the motives are primarily related to the serious poverty and social spread in the Bulgarian society, which are constantly growing. People who receive income below what is necessary for normal life compared to Bulgarian standards reached 71%. The income ratio of the 20 per cent poorest and 20 per cent richest rose from 6.5% in 2011, to 6.6% in 2013 and to 7.7%, i.e. nearly 8%, in 2018. Bulgaria is among the countries of the European Union with the largest financial spread of the population, which instead is increasing. The share of the working poor reached 10%, with 7.2% in 2013. The minimum wage people working in Bulgaria are 470 thousand, or that is 21% of the employees under contract. With income below the poverty line, which for 2019 is 348 BGN, live more than 24% of the population, and the prices of the basic goods and services used by ordinary Bulgarians are increasing at a higher rate than the growth of income. Life support is becoming more and more difficult for nearly two thirds of the costs are for food, heating, lighting, transport, which follows that any new increase puts a significant part of the Bulgarian households to a serious test, even though they have some growth in incomes. According to the latest Eurostat data, Bulgaria heads the negative ranking for the highest inequalities in the European Union. And on this background, statistics show that negative trends in increasing poverty and the risk of poverty are most reflected in families with children, in providing normal conditions for raising and living these children. At risk of poverty and social exclusion in Bulgaria, 41% of Bulgarian children live over 510 thousand. Without further ado, I will mention only the thousands of children dropped out of the educational system from I to IV grade. Why'd they drop out? Anyone doing an analysis? Maybe a little help as we suggest makes sure that some of these kids don't drop out of school. I will not continue with statistics on children with material deprivation and needs that cannot be met for financial reasons. I will only point out that I am talking not about whims, but about needs such as extracurricular and extracurricular regular activities with swimming, playing a musical instrument and the like, rest outside the home, separate outdoor and school outfits, buying books outside the free textbooks, buying at least two pairs of shoes Are these our children human, is it civilized not to be able to satisfy their needs, and the basic needs?! Are we a country from Europe? And why are we angry with Europe for dividing us into two speeds, and why do we allow such division among the children of Bulgaria? How many speeds do our kids live? This terrifying statistic requires urgent enhanced concrete measures, except for raising birth rates and stimulating responsible parenting, but also for supporting children from low-income families and providing at least minimum conditions for attending school. The additional funds needed for these measures are only around 90 million. lv. And against the backdrop of the billions of armaments, they're ridiculous. I expect an understanding from the people's representation and support for our bill, which, apart from not requiring a lot of money, because the aid is one-off, can also take into account the possibilities of the state budget. Any vote against this proposal will show that the people's representation does not have the necessary social sense for their own people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u53	Thank you for your punctuality, Mr. Gokov exactly ten minutes. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Here you go, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today Bulgaria is facing a severe demographic crisis. There are negative, worrying, worsening and deepening demographic indicators. Unfortunately, this no longer makes an impression, nor does it excite, as I look at the atmosphere in the hall, neither the patriots, nor the patriots, nor the citizens for the European development of Bulgaria. Even the way the discussions in the Commission have gone, they look with annoyance at what the opposition represents, as if it is harassing the work of the National Assembly. Unfortunately, these severe trends affect the stability of basic social systems, such as the labour market, the pension system, the health system, the social support system. The economic and social environment does not stimulate young Bulgarians to create and grow their generation today in Bulgaria. Young families live in insecurity for work, for permanent income, for career development, for conditions guaranteeing the raising of children. This stimulates the ongoing migration processes of young people to 30 years of age, which in turn enhances the tendency for the ageing of the nation. Internal territorial disproportions are deepening. The processes of primitiveisation and closure of basic social infrastructures in small settlements continue. Large territories of the state are progressively depopulated. The decadent population is retreating, the young generation is extremely small, and general culture and education fall sharply in these settlements. Life and relationships are primitive. Access to nursery and gardens is not guaranteed for all children. The expansion of social services for families and children is far behind the needs of young people. Today, complex measures are needed for the social protection of responsible parents and the promotion of responsible parenting. That is why today we are proposing part of our measures, which we have proposed repeatedly, as an alternative for Bulgaria's development in our new alternative development model for Bulgaria. Today we offer stimulating the insured parents to those who were part of the insurance system for 24 months, at the birth of a second and third child with one-off aid of 10 minimum salaries. We propose an extension of the one-off aid for the start of the school year for children from socially weak families. This is the most important stage in our opinion from the development of the children, the time from I to IV grade, when lasting habits, knowledge and skills are formed in children. The demographic problem is unsolvable without investment. These funds should be viewed as social investments with high returns, not as an additional financial burden. The balanced demographic development of the population and the increased qualities of human capital are becoming increasingly an essential element of national security. Therefore, urgent measures are also needed today to overcome Bulgaria's biggest challenge, namely the demographic crisis in the nation. I hope that we will be united here today and responsible for the decisions we make. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u55	Thank you, dear Mrs. Lecheva. Replies to Mrs. Lecheva's statement? There are no lines. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you are, Mrs. Gancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u56	Madam President, honourable Members! The bill provides for the introduction of a new kind of one-off aid for students enrolled in II, III and IV class, similar to the one-off aid to be paid to enrolled students in I class, according to art. 10a of the Family Aid Act for Children. One of the arguments of importers is that at this age children grow fast and poor families need support to provide clothing and shoes for the beginning of the school year. It is not clear from the reasons on which principle it will be determined that it is children up to the fourth grade who need more support than other students. One-time assistance to students enrolled in I grade shall be reimbursed if the child does not attend school or attend regular classes until the end of the I grade, unless this is impossible for health reasons. It is not clear from the proposed bill whether for the children for whom the aid was recovered by the end of the first grade, the same students will receive support when signing up for the II, III or IV class, although the family has already been sanctioned. The main risk of introducing the new type of aid other than the lack of financial collateralisation under the budget programme "Helping a family with children" of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for 2019 is the inequality of students up to XII grade. Regardless of the age of the child, each family has the cost of preparing the educational process of each child, regardless of which class it enrolled and studied in. In addition, detention of children at school cannot be carried out only with financial support. According to data from the National Statistical Institute, the relative share of children from I to IV grade compared to the total number of children in the initial course of study, the number of those who leave school is much smaller than those who leave school from V to XII grade. The reasons for the proposed bill do not include detailed estimates of how many families will be entitled to the aid. The proposal for financing through the current re-execution of the budget cannot guarantee financing of the measure at a later period of the year or in the following years in the medium term, and it is therefore necessary to make detailed estimates of the necessary resources in the medium term, and at the expense of which costs this new approach is proposed to be financed. According to the Ministry of Finance, the necessary funds to implement this measure are 30 million per year. The proposed bill does not take into account the latest amendments and additions to the Family Aids Act for children, which will enter into force on 1 August 2019 in relation to the payment of the one-off aid to students enrolled in 1st grade, twice: 50 percent of its amount will be paid after the entry into force of the order for granting it and the remainder will be paid at the beginning of the second period if the child continues to attend school. With regard to the proposal for a change in the provision of one-off aid for the birth of a second and third child, it should be borne in mind that family aid is not only due to insured persons but to all Bulgarian citizens who meet the conditions laid down in the Family Aid Act for children. Family support for children is financed entirely by the state budget and does not have the character of insurance benefits within the meaning of the Social Security Code. Specifically, one-time childbirth assistance according to art. 6 of the Law on Family Aid for Children is the right of all mothers at birth of a live child and is granted without a lucrative test. The setting of conditions for insurance for 24 months prior to birth in order to obtain the higher amount of single birth aid for a second and third child is direct discrimination not only with regard to the parents themselves, but also with regard to their children. With regard to the reasons given by importers for the proposals with a view to supporting children from low-income families, it is not clear why it is the uninsured parents who are excluded from the higher amount of aid. It is necessary to conclude that importers consider that uninsured parents have higher incomes than insured ones. At the same time, family aid for children is not aid for combating poverty, they are not based on guaranteed minimum income, they are not child support or family support, and they are not social assistance and they are not intended to supplement or replace incomes with a view to meeting the basic life needs of children. There are no specific sources of funding in the reasons, and it is assumed that the necessary resource can be provided, I quote: "In the implementation of the budget and available reserves. This contradicts the Public Finance Act, that the overexecution of revenue for the current budget year cannot serve as a source of additional expenditure, except where proposed by the Council of Ministers and adopted by the National Assembly. According to the Ministry of Finance, the necessary funds under this measure are 125 million. lv. Annually. In conclusion, financial stimulus cannot be a leading measure to promote birth rates and to keep children in school. The promotion of birth rates needs a complex approach and an integrated system, cross-sectoral policies that will lead to the security needed for families in making decisions on raising more children. For all these reasons, analyzed and highlighted by me, the MPs from the Political Party GERB will refrain from supporting this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u57	Thank you, dear Mrs. Gancheva. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u58	(BSP for Bulgaria): Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Gancheva, I thought you'd come up with something more original, but the same thing: discrimination, where will it be financed in the middle of the year and how did we choose from I to IV grade? Our criterion is that these are the possibilities of the state budget, so we offer from I to IV grade. You, if you think that in any way we discriminate against the rest of us up to the XIIth grade, or that the dropouts up to the XIIth grade are more, suggest we raise them there too. We will gladly support you with both hands. I, even if I can, will vote with both my hands for this proposal, only that we have considered that the state budget's ability at the moment is such as to finance this aid only from I to IV class, to resolve it until IV grade. I have to tell you that from I to IV class, children are at stake to stay until the end, not to drop out in the next course. About funding. We will make this proposal when we make the state budget. Then I don't know what your motives or your answers will be anymore. I do not understand how you can redesign the budget for fighters, for another reason, to show such low social sensitivity for Bulgarian children? I will not agree in any way that what you are doing is in favour of the budget. This is neither for the benefit of the budget nor for the benefit of the Bulgarians, the children. About discrimination. Since there's no time, and not to take up any more time, I won't answer. Do you discriminate against the rest when you only give for the first grade? Why, when we introduce some criterion for receiving aid, the aid is obtained under condition, and we have offered the condition to provide parents in the last 24 months........................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u59	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Second line, Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Gancheva, very clearly and consistently in your speech you pointed out the arguments why this bill should not be supported. However, I would add that you have missed a very important, also strong argument why you should not support this bill. Social assistance cannot be the only tool for combating poverty and keeping children in the educational system. There's no way with financial incentives we can keep the kids in school. Social incentives cannot confirm the understanding that education is a value that needs to be built in children at an early age and this can happen in the family. This is extremely important! We are all talking here about a complex approach, complex measures to deal with this problem, said it from the left, not about half measures being proposed, measures per piece of unclear nature, which are not known whether they will have any long-term effect. Education is currently a priority of this government and has very good measures and good results in this direction with regard to the mechanism for covering and keeping children in the education system. For the last two years, 40,000 children have been returned to school. In this school year alone, 5200 children dropped out of school amid dropouts in the 2017 academic year 2018 when there were 14,000 children and 2016 - 2017 school year when 20 thousand children dropped out. So there must be a complex approach, working measures, and in this regard I think the government is doing very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u61	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Third line, please, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u62	Madam President, colleagues! Dear Mrs. Gancheva, my line is that I will not go deeper into the criteria we have chosen and why we have said only from II to IV grade and how we decided. We are not going to talk about criteria because we can ask ourselves a lot of questions about what criteria billions are allocated to, and this is about 30 million. My question is: since you claim that the financial stimulus cannot be a leading motive, this was one of your arguments, I ask you: why are you dividing the one-time aid for the first grade into the first and second term? This was your proposal. You have divided this aid. Now, the financial motive can't be an incentive, but it's practically a financial motive, because that's the way you say: only if the child goes to school will we give him half of that money at the beginning of the second term. We will not talk about discrimination here, because if we look at how many of the Bulgarian families receive with the popular "child benefits" we will see that there is a criterion and it is an income criterion. So we can say there's discrimination there, too. This is not about discrimination. Mr. Gokov told you that we are still dealing with the possibilities of the budget on our part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u63	Thank you, dear Mrs. Anastasova. There's not gonna be a duvet. In the manner of conduct, please, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Shopov made a statement, then Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u64	Madam President, you have allowed Mrs Angelova, in the form of a replica, to make a statement on the substance. Not that I have a general objection that she made a statement on the substance, but you are thus denying me and my colleagues the opportunity to give her a reply. I think that's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u65	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Shopov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! If we have criticism of the bill submitted by the BSP from the Ataka, it is that the proposals are timid and indecisive. We expected much more comprehensive, much more decisive ideas and proposals in the direction of stimulating the birth rate, because what is being done despite all the opinions that have been made by GERB is an important measure in order to improve the demographic problem. The crisis is incredible. Perhaps the demographic crisis is the worst of all the crises that have covered the other systems of public, economic and political life, and in this direction comprehensive measures are needed. These measures must be consensual in my opinion. All political forces must sit down and think about how to change the negative trend regarding demographics in the country. Models are in closer and distant countries. Perhaps the most working one is the Hungarian model, what Orbán does with powerful financial incentives: a loan for 30 thousand euros: in the case of a first child, a second child, a third child, we all know what is happening there. It's obvious that there's money in the country when billions are given for airplanes, there's money to be given for the birth of children, because that's what they're after right now. Apparently, there is money because the prime minister, the finance minister, is constantly talking about overexecuting the revenue portion of the budget from the collection by feathers of excise duties, taxes. In this regard, it seems that things are in the best way and money for such an important thing. When we are talking about the stimuli that are currently proposed on both lines, we must also talk about the other issue, which is an absolute anomaly and which all the rulers have missed so far. In election campaigns, they fight in the chest, that when they come to power they will solve the problem. It cannot, it is unfair and absolutely unacceptable that some parents and some children receive child benefits, while others for the reason that they have higher incomes, how high they are, sometimes it is about several levs or several dozens of levs, cannot enter the boundaries where they receive child benefits. There must be an end to this injustice. The child is a child and is not a criterion for whether benefits will be obtained in the income of the parents. The allowances are given for something else. They're a confession that parents take care of this child. They are an incentive for other parents who should think and feel that the state is thus behind them. This money may not be much, but it is about the special relationship of society with parents and children that the state cares about them, there is a connection between society and the needs of children, with their support. To give God the economy to develop well, to implement those measures that need to be implemented to have more money in the treasury, to enter more taxes, to enter more income, and to go towards increasing the amount of child benefits, for which, however, the first step is for all children in Bulgaria, regardless of their parents' incomes, to receive child benefits. There must be an end, I repeat, of this injustice, of this anomaly. We from the party "Attack" have always been extremely passionate about the position that the state should do much more for social needs in social terms. We have always been about a social market economy, which is one of the elements of nationalism. In the social market economy, care for people, care for children is a major pillar in our creed, in our ideology, and any measures that are taken in this direction, we see, albeit modest, albeit indecisive, no matter which country they come from, whether from the opposition or from the rulers, will be supported by us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. First line, you have the floor, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u68	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shopov, with almost everything you've said, I agree with a slight correction. You said the measurements were halfway. But I think that my fellow Members on the left are realistic because if these measures are to be introduced by the XIIth grade, I just calculated a very simple methodology, the Ministry of Finance says that by the fourth grade, if these measures, which offer the left, are approved by us, by parliament, the budget will cost 180 million. 491,000. lv. Annually. Multiply by three to the fifth grade, the figure becomes about 725 million a year. The truth is, at this point, the state can't have it... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yeah, okay. I'm not that good at math. Let's make it 180 million, even worse. The truth is that the state cannot afford at this stage this thing, and I suppose that is why my fellow Members on the left have been limited in this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u69	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Second line? I can't see. You have the floor for the back, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u70	That was NFSB's opinion. The opinion of Ataka. I expressed it, and it is indisputable and clear. This has been the opinion of the Atakas during all 15 years of our existence on the political stage, and it will never change, it will be constant. When it comes to the social rights of Bulgarian citizens, the budget must always find money. How did they find money for children with disabilities? And that was unexpected, and that was unexpected. Does anyone regret this? A big step has been achieved. Once again, if there is money for expensive fighters, there should be money for Bulgarian children. Some will accuse me of populism by talking like that. I can be blamed if this were to be taken apart, it was an accidental opinion and an opinion at the moment. You can check my statements from this tribune for all these years, and you will see that I have spoken in the same direction. This account must not be made. 700, 800 million, 140 million, 150 million. That's why BSPs are, I guess, and modest. With these, again, half steps rely on their proposal to pass. Apparently, they could have bet a lot bigger numbers here. This money is realistic, this money is quite within the ability of the Bulgarian state to be separated, and I am talking about it. If we accept this proposal, it will be the beginning of a new philosophy in politics, of a new moment. So far, nothing has been done for demography, including by the United Patriarchs and we have a deputy prime minister for demography. We don't want that responsibility on our consciences, on ours. So far, nothing has been done about demographics, and we have to admit it. It can be done, we are in the middle of the mandate, only with such steps that are not decisive but indicative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. We continue with the speeches. Dear Mrs. Ninova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u72	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! All politicians of all parties and of all colors for years agree on the following: Bulgaria has a severe demographic crisis. Some experts even warn us of demographic death. The young leave Bulgaria and we must help them with all the incentives and opportunities of the state to keep them here. The working poor are increasing and measures are also needed in this direction to assist them. So far, we all agree on that. Words, however, only words dressed in these years in many strategies, reports, doctrines, reports, and no action. Here we are today from the BSP for Bulgaria and we offer an alternative, actions, solutions. What do we get on the other side? I understand that the United Patriarchs have just had an internal dispute, although they have a general representative, a deputy prime minister in demography. They can't understand each other, and they're part of this government and they should be taking action! GERB say, just after 10 years of governance: we need a comprehensive approach. Give it to me, dear colleagues! Here, we're offering you something. In your opinion, it was a piece, and it needed a complete... If you have to, who has to do it? Aren't you in charge? What does BSP suggest? By the way, good European experience, we have received from there a one-time help for a second and third child in the amount of BGN 5600. this year; if next year the minimum increase to BGN 610. 6100 leva.; increasing aid from I to IV grade and returning this aid, however, if you do not go to school. Now let's see why you're against it. I wish I could ignore the weak arguments, such as discrimination until the fourth grade. Now there is no discrimination for the I grade, so these motives will put them aside. The other BSP had given no justification. This must be a copy paste of your opinions on other laws. If you had read, esteemed rulers, what we offer, you would see that we have clearly calculated that it refers to 120,000 children, that it will cost 90 million. lv. You have the justification by number and the justification by money. The main argument you point out: there is no money, we need an update of the budget. Dear managers, in one month you will make twice an update of the budget in the middle of the year one time to reduce the party subsidy, and a second time, probably next week, to increase the deficit to nearly 3 billion and take new loans. In one month two updates, but, you see, for some 90 million for children, for young families, for the demographic disaster there is no money and no budget update can be made. We haven't been able to identify a source. We write very clearly: the source of the surplus. He couldn't! According to the Public Finance Act, this did not happen because spending surplus should be approved by the National Assembly to be proposed by the Council of Ministers and approved by the National Assembly. I ask Mr. Borisov: Did the National Assembly approve you to spend 2 billion. lv. outside the framework of the budget in 2018, at the end of the year, just like that, passing through cities and villages, single at your discretion and at your own discretion, to make a PR? How, then, did the Public Finance Act not work and not apply, and for Bulgarian young families and Bulgarian children could not do so without an update of the budget?! I ask Mr. Borisov this year before the elections did he also spend outside the budget approved by the National Assembly, passing by the SUV in Bulgaria, through the window of his car, hundreds of millions of levs, without the National Assembly approving them? Why is the Public Finance Act not valid for this man, but for the working poor, for the young families, for the children, in the case of an absolutely established demographic disaster by all of us, valid? Where's your same arsin?! Your arguments are weak. Finally, the assessment: the government is doing well with this problem and, see, let's not accept BSP's proposals. How well is the government doing? At risk of poverty or social exclusion there are 41% of Bulgarian children, nearly half a million. The share of working poor reaches 10%. Dear colleagues, in 2013 it was 7%. See for your management at what rate the share of working poor is growing. In 2018, the country's population declined by nearly 50,000 people "49 995." In 2018, 62 197 live births were registered in the country, compared to the previous year they decreased by 1758. Well, is that how the government does with this data?! Let's talk seriously about this. One of my colleagues called for consent. The demographic problem, crisis or death, as some already call it, is Bulgaria, really requires national consent. You can't close your eyes with the clichés. There's no money! You see the statistics, and it goes down every year down! Look! Let's sit down and solve this one step at a time. It requires years, years of consistent work, not one to do something, another to come and cancel it and start over again. The demographic problem is one that demands the most national agreement. Do not deny what the opposition is proposing just because it proposes it. Give your suggestions between first and second reading, let us sit down and wisely decide that this is what the political class will do to save the Bulgarian nation. Otherwise we're out of here! And whoever's in charge will do it regardless of our party differences and our programs. On other issues we can argue, but demographics, health care and education are things that are above all our party interests, above each and every one of us here. Perhaps there will be no us in this Chamber, other Bulgarians will come to think and they will be responsible for these issues and continue something that we can start with responsibility now. Therefore, I call on you: support the Law at first reading, give between first and second reading your proposals................................................................................................. to save the Bulgarian nation from demographic death! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u73	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. The line, Mr. Shopov. Second line, Mrs. Angelova. Third line, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Ninova, we at the attack have been talking for some time about introducing an abortion ban. Since we are talking about demography right now, this issue is extremely relevant, the topic is complex. When we talk about assistance, we need to talk about birth rates, and this is also related to abortions, because many abortions are also done for social reasons, because of the inability of parents to endure, to watch the children who will come. We have repeatedly asked the question in society to start a debate. All of you were silent and GERB, and Volja. The other two parties from the United Patriarchs. Let us finally start this very big topic in society, because, Mrs. Nino, every day an average of about eight children is the reason why they are not born per year they are about twenty-five. On Alpha TV we presented and calculated that in the years of transition another Bulgaria would exist and would have been born if it had not been for abortions. It's a fundamental subject! It is a matter of views that are at the base of every single political force. We know that you are a social but also a liberal left party. We know that left-wing parties are generally not against abortion, but this topic is discussed in all the normal countries of the world, including in countries of the European Union, in Poland, in the Czech Republic, in Italy and in Germany. In the Nordic countries, we know the issue of liberalism there has blossomed and taken unseen proportions. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Tell me, as the leader of the BSP, are you in favor of, or are you in favour of, or do you have an intermediate position, a position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Second line "Dear Mrs. Angelova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u76	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ninova, do you think that with 250 leva? social benefits granted, and twice that of BGN 125. at the beginning of the first school period, and 125 BGN. At the beginning of the second period of school, will you solve the problem of poverty and the detention of children in school? Of course not! This is a utopia you want to impose on us, this is another populist proposal from you. Please get on the time machine and return to 2019! Enough with the welfare! Social benefits were at another time when you were managing, when the salary was one dollar, people couldn't buy even one bread. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Now we have growth in the economy, we have growth in investment, we have growth in wages, we have unemployment of 5.3%, which is the lowest in 25 years! [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Applause by GERB.)]] People need work, not welfare!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u77	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Bikov, you have the floor of the third line. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Because, together with the BSP colleagues' proposal, there is a debate on the demographic crisis, I do not agree with the plane on which this debate is being held. It says here that this is a social problem. This is not a social problem, colleagues. It's a cultural problem! In Bulgaria, this problem began the 1960s when the birth rate fell sharply. Breaking up the patriarchal family, kicking God out of school from totalitarian regime are one of the reasons for this crisis. [[(Voices from BSP for Bulgaria]] I'll remind you of something else. Your ideology is also here specifically to Mr. Pawnov: Mr. Marks says that the family is a structure that it exploits, and it must be destroyed. This is one of the problems of the demographic crisis not in Bulgaria, but throughout Europe. And that's a tragedy! And for Bulgaria we have, yes, we have a lower birth rate at the moment, only I will tell you something else: 1990 - 1997 most people left Bulgaria, and people at a young age, people who gave birth to their children outside. And today we have a smaller generation, which was born in the 1990s, 2001, 2002, just a smaller generation and it gives birth less. Makes sense. I'll tell you again, though, it's not bad to have this debate, but to have it as a debate that outlines the demographic problem as cultural. For example, what is more important about children or careers? Because right now it's more prestigious to have a good career than having kids. We need to discuss this matter! And that doesn't work with social measures. This is done with attitude and formation of attitudes of society. And it's very hard! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Hole, Mrs. Ninova, come in. You had three lines. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Pawnov, a personal explanation? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u80	(BSP for Bulgaria): Alas! Thus, the desire and the intention to draw your attention and seek consent will not happen. From what I hear from GERB, you do not want to understand the problem, nor do you want to look for solutions. Again the slogans how everything is now pink and back in the 60s in your ideas are arguments! My parents don't have them. Besides that in those years you are quoting, the Bulgarian people were nine million [[noise and lines]] And now we're under seven. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm done with the past. The call to get out of the time machine would rather do it to you! Get off this machine, in which your only arguments are going back 50 years and as citizens for the European development of Bulgaria look today and the future! Because, Mrs. Angelova, you say we should get off this time machine, but did you know that in Europe, for example, these measures that we are proposing are being implemented today? Did you know that BSP's proposal to reduce VAT on children's goods and foodstuffs is practically two thirds of European countries? Did you know that BSP's proposal for family income taxation, i.e. tax reductions for young families with two or more children, is a European practice? Dear citizens for the European development of Bulgaria, see for modern Bulgaria and modern Europe! Really take off those pink glasses, open your eyes to the problem and let's solve it! Aggression against the opposition, just because it offers it, does not bring it to you or to us. When we win elections and we rule, we will. But now we have to start because we're too late! [[Noise and lines from Greb.]] And only with the return of arguments about the past will it not work! Dear Mr. Shopov, when you submit a proposal and an abortion ban bill, we will tell you what our opinion is and we will show you how to vote. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u81	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Gurnevsky, come in. [[Noise and lines.]] Okay, hold on, Mr. Gurnevsky. Mr. Pawnov, mentioning you hasn't found anything negative and nothing to offend you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u82	Ahh, let's respect each other!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u83	You're insulted. Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Bikov, Bulgarian Churchill! I respect you very much because you're an extremely prepared person, you read Marx, but you didn't understand it. [[Noise and lines.]] First, I must tell you, although Marks attacked the family, Bulgaria during socialism was approaching nine million, and now we are under seven. I'll give you another comparative characteristic. At the same time 1989 the year 1990 Bulgaria was about nine million, at the same time Cuba was also nine million. Now Cuba is twelve and a half million, regardless of Marx, and I don't want to go a little bit to the East, where regardless of Marx, China is approaching a billion and a half. There's something else I need to tell you. Socialism had child support for all children...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u85	Mr. Pawnov, I apologize, but I can't find your personal explanation here. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u86	...regardless of...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u87	I can't find your personal explanation here! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u88	I'll finish. [[(Noise, lines and shouts by BSP for Bulgaria]] Besides, there were kindergartens for all the kids.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u89	You have no grounds.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u90	There was health care at school. The difference is huge and this is not a demographic crisis, it is a demographic disaster thanks to your management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u91	Thank you, dear Mr. Pawnov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We continue with speeches. Mr. Gurnevsky, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! The losers are back in the room, reopened the bag of lies, fraud and illusions, and are again preparing for next election. That's good. A very nice congress you have made. You have chosen the right leader for which we have been baptized with two hands, and after these elections you will disappear, and I will tell you why. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria: You are from SDS. And the SDS is gone!]] When you talk about the demographic crisis, today's condition is at stake in the past. No one else, the former Secretary of the Central Committee of the BCP said on June 12 last year on the media in an interview that the BCP in the face of Mladenov, the leaders of Lukanov and Atanasov, on November 10th have oriented Bulgaria towards capitalism. And he says, "They built capitalism of the most ugly type, which drove away two million young Bulgarians! In order for two million young Bulgarians to be away, the Bulgarian Communist Party and its leadership are to blame! [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] On the subject. Two years of lies, intrigues, illusions by your leader and the Bulgarian Socialist Party, four months of guerrilla movement...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u93	Mr. Gurnevsky, we're talking about something else!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u94	...new television, new vision, traveling around the country, talking to people. And what was the result with the new vision and the new TV? I'll tell you. In Miziya, Mrs. Nino's hometown, in section one, where her mother-in-law voted, in section one, where they voted... [[Noise, shouts: "Eee!" and banging on banks from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u95	Mr. Gurnevsky, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u96	...her friends and relatives...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u97	Please, Mr. Gurnevsky!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u98	...the majority of the ballots were blue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u99	If you don't get on the subject, I'll be forced to interrupt you!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u100	Comrades and comrades, you don't want your relatives...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u101	Mr. Gurnevsky, pay attention to me, please! [[Noise and lines.]] Please pay attention to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u102	...and you want to rule Bulgaria. Stop! [[The President turns off the microphones. The MP continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u103	Mr. Gurnevsky, please pay attention to me! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u104	Once and for all, you'll be finished... [[(The President turns off the microphones. Noise, lines and shouts by BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u105	Mr. Gurnevsky, please pay attention to me! [[The National Representative continues to speak with microphones off.]] Thank you, you forgot the map. [[Noise and lines.]] The way you're holding it, here you go. [[Noise and lines.]] Wait, I'll give you the floor, let the lines pass. Here you are, dear Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gurnevsky, you have done a very nice historical examination, but you forgot to say something specific on the subject. Not you, gentlemen of BSP, but the government of Boyko Borisov two and a half years ago entrusted the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences with the development to deal with the demographic crisis. Have you heard of this thing? Mr. Gurnevski, you should have told them that and last year this report by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences was presented to the government and three ministries are currently working on it: the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Social Services and the Health Ministry. The development is up to 2040. There is written by experts of BAS. The development is a thousand pages and it is probably difficult to read, a thousand pages are very much given are different models and measures to deal with the crisis, is being analyzed at the moment and these measures will be implemented. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I hope you don't mind Ban! You don't mind the development of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the experts at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, do you? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u107	Colleagues, please, if you want me to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u108	Yeah, yeah, that's why I disagree with what Mr. Gurnevsky says, and I'm telling him he should have mentioned that. So the government of Boyko Borisov has ordered this development and it is implemented, and is currently working. See that by 2030 One thousand pages, one more time I tell you, is the development and it is being worked on by 2030. The trend is what you are talking about, and we all know it is bad, it is not a favorable trend by 2030. There are proposed measures to slow down the bad trend by then and after 2030 to turn around. And until then, by 2030, you can offer whatever you want, you have that right. But before that, read what BAS said on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u109	Thank you, dear Mr. Glauchev. The line, Mr. Popov. You're refusing a line. Mr. Gurnevsky's denture. Make it specific.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u110	Yes, it will be. Mr. Glauchev, you're going too far in time. Yes, GERB has been treating the wounds of the 70-year hidden government for 10 years, especially the last 20 years of BSP. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria (BSP for Bulgaria))]] . In 2030 the trend will probably turn, but the good thing is that there will be no one to stop it after this year. Because after these elections in the fall, after another loss that BSP will take, and as they've got their hands on, they'll be suffocated by Christmas at the latest. There will come spring, there will come Vidovden, there are many honest people idealists, they will finally split into two on the one hand will remain socialists for social justice...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u111	Mr. Gurnevsky, we're talking about something else.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u112	...and on the other side will remain thieving communist capitalists. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u113	Mr. Gurnevsky, we're talking about something else. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Svilensky. [[Noise and lines.]] Wait, wait, don't take your word for it without me giving it to you, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u114	Who was it?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u115	He was before you, I'll give him the floor. [[Reply.]] I'll give you the floor in the manner of conduct and ask you to sit down! It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm making a line or procedure in the manner of conduct, because of Mr. Gurnevsky, except that you stopped his sound and took his word away, you had to kick him out of the room. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] We are looking at a law, we are looking at a specific point, proposed and voted by the National Assembly. In his statement, there was not one word by law, at least the title had been quoted! After that, you gave a line on his no-no statement under the law. Then you gave him the duplicate to speak nonsense again and to engage Bulgarian MPs and Bulgarian citizens with his unlived childhood from 60 years ago, and we look forward to the future for the current children and for the future children. And you stand behind me and you watch it, and you listen to it. This man must be removed from the Chamber at this time when, not only does he come out of the subject several times, you warned him, you rightly took his word, but allowed him to insult, allow himself to speak slanderously, and you stand back and watch. Come on, give a tone in this National Assembly for consent, whatever you want! And in practice, come, come to work together, and when we come to work together, you start doing stupid things! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Mr. Chairman, my real request is from now on that you keep an eye on the subject and those like Mr. Gurnevsky to remove them from the Chamber. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u117	Thank you. Just for the record. After all, the MPs, however not on the subject, Mr. Svilensky, I wouldn't say they're talking nonsense. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u118	Mr. Chairman, I would like to draw your attention to the following: you have really allowed Mr. Gurnevsky for quite some time not to speak on the subject. In the previous case with Mr. Svilensky, not only did you turn off his microphone, you took him off the stands. Mrs. Daritkova, Mr. Chairman, many times calls for us to be constructive, to work. Let's work! Hide them somewhere or don't let them go, hide them somewhere. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] And, now, we're going to work on it, is, how are we going to work on the double archin, again ours, again yours? So write it down one more time, Mr. Chairman, before, where you wrote it down, the double archin put it somewhere in the room there or throw it in the garden, but don't use it again in this room! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u119	Thank you. You have the floor, dear Mr. Toshev, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I would like to call on you to be an objective leader at the National Assembly meeting because you have allowed this tribune to speak of Marx and Engels, who do not know exactly what they have to do with this thing that we now see as an item on the agenda. There is talk of how many million Bulgaria was when the klones at the border... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u121	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u122	...were turned to us, not to the Greeks and Turks. You have allowed this in all its greatness to be exported here as information, and you have not allowed to talk about what is offensive about it. Now I have heard that it was insulting, we have done insults. Who's from Miziya, who's from Krushovitsa, who's from Vodnjantsi as I am, what's offensive about that? And why did you take Mr. Gurnevsky's word away, who was very specific about the subject? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And the results of the election committees in the first section of Mysia are not an insult to anyone, they are a fact. Be objective, Mr. Chairman, be objective!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u123	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. I'm calling a 30-minute recess at work. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u124	Colleagues, let's get back to work. Mr. Popov for speaking because I found out that...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will make a very brief statement, which was provoked by Mr. Glauchev's reply. Regarding what GERB had done and what rule in connection with the demographic catastrophe, the demographic crisis in Bulgaria. I would remind you that as early as 2014, when GERB had a coalition partner ABB and Minister of Labour and Social Policy was Mr. Kalfin, here on our proposal from BSP, a decision was voted in plenary to be given to the government to draw up a strategy to deal with the demographic crisis and disaster 2014 was this. Today is 2019. So far, what has happened? New strategies, new round tables, a new and unstoppable talk and practically nothing, no real result. Here, we offer something real to deal with this heavy scourge for Bulgaria, and what we get from those who are responsible for certain accusations, some historical retrospects. Let's do something real in this direction! Did you know that last year, because this is where the Vidin region was mentioned, 75 children were born last year in the whole district? Unfortunately, ten-to-one is almost the difference and not for the benefit of newborns from newborns, live births and those people who died in the area. You have an example of this difficult region such as.... and Vidin, and Vratsa, and Montana. Something has to be done about it, and now, because after a year, it will be really late. So support this bill at first reading. Make your suggestions between first and second readings. Signal the public that they think about it, not like 2014. A decision of the Assembly, in a parliamentary republic, the highest authority, has entrusted the government and, so far, absolutely nothing, zero. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Are there any lines? I don't see any lines. You have the floor, Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u127	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Popov, 2014 is the Strategy, yes, you're right, but I wasn't talking about it. I said about concrete measures to address the demographic crisis, which was precisely done by the government as a result of this strategy. So what you're appealing for is done.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u128	There's an updated strategy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u129	There is a difference between Strategy 2014 when it was awarded by Mr. Kalfin, as Mr. Ademov said, and what I said in the reply then was for concrete measures developed by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to deal with the demographic crisis. So agree that this is a step forward, albeit as a result of the Strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u130	Thank you, Mr. Glauchev. You have the floor, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will try to bring you back to the subject of the debate, because the vote is coming up soon and rather to the specific proposals that we are proposing. Our proposal to amend the Family Aids Act for children, which envisions one-off assistance for students from I to IV grade, is an attempt to solve the problem of early dropout of children from the education system. This is one of the tools, and naturally there are others, of course, we do not deny it. Financial stimulus is not a leading measure, as you said, but helping families is an essential element of supporting children at risk and their families. From a report by the UNICEF Research Centre to assess the state of children in 41 countries, one in five children in developed countries live in relative poverty due to low incomes, and one in eight children faces uncertainty and lack of food. On average, 13% of children worldwide do not have access to protection and quality food. Bulgaria is located at the bottom of the ranking, after us only Chile. In Bulgaria, the percentage of children living at risk of poverty is 41% and 23 of children from vulnerable groups do not know what school and kindergarten is. Every year, about fifteen thousand children drop out of the education system, each year about a thousand children do not cross the school threshold. According to almost all the studies, parents point to low incomes as a primary reason, which do not allow many families to send their children to school. Most of the reasons are as every report says, even in the Ministry of Education and Science's report, social and economic: lack of clothing, shoes, payment of a kindergarten fee, lack of money for textbooks and lack of education for parents themselves. Yeah, I was sure one of your main motives would be why it's only up to the fourth grade. Of course, there are really dropouts after that, and there are a lot more of them. True. But this can only change with the work of institutions and the education policy of children in early childhood. A number of studies show that investing in early childhood development leads to significant public returns. The lack of adequate support to the parents and families of early childhood children is linked to the positive educational and health indicators, which then lead to serious consequences for the whole society if this adequate policy is not taken. Dear colleagues, it will be difficult to find a universal mechanism for solving the problem of dropping children from school and child poverty, but it is a fact that every third child in Bulgaria lives at risk of poverty and this is directly dependent on the poverty of parents. That is why our proposal is: social support for the performance of parental functions. With regard to our proposal for the one-off aid of each second and third child in the amount of ten minimum salaries for parents who are provided at least 24 months before birth, I would like to say that this is stimulating responsible parenting. A lot was said on the topic of a demographic crisis. Yes, Bulgaria is depopulated with the parameters of a demographic catastrophe, not a crisis. It is precisely the deepening crisis that is the greatest threat to our country. The reduction of the population caused by the low birth rates, death rates, migration rates, caused all of this and led to serious changes in the structure of the population. This affects the labour market, health, education, social care and so on. This structure is very important for present and especially for future demographic trends because it prejudges the future productive and labour potentials of the country. The main guidelines of family policy should be to improve the quality of life and access to the basic services of families with children, education, social spheres, support services for these families. We said that and we do not say that only our proposal is qualified and it is appropriate to solve this problem, and naturally the measures must be complex. Financial incentives aren't enough, but you can't say we're making policy in a piece. In a week or two, or shortly thereafter, we will also consider our tax laws for the relief of young families. We also have a proposal in "Vision for Bulgaria" to remove the kindergarten fee. That's not politics per piece. These are proposals aimed precisely at a specific topic and this is the topic of dealing with the demographic crisis. I know you don't accept them, and you keep pointing out that fact. I'm not going into controversy with you. Why? One of the colleagues came forward before that. Finally, if you are still listening to what we are proposing, although I highly doubt that you will accept the Law at first reading, I would like to say that we agree with some of the notes and that this scope should also be increased for a second adopted child and other remarks on the subject of the insured parents. I'm sure Mr. Ademov will say that in a moment. This text can be refined. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u132	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. Are there any lines? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Ademov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we agree that this is an extremely important topic, that any proposal that is related to higher levels of social protection deserves serious attention. This is the proposal of colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria. However, before that, I would like to say a few words about the difference between social security, social assistance and social assistance. These are basic categories in the social vector and, if we exit from them, we can very easily talk about principles in providing, supporting or in child support policy. When we talk about social security, our Constitution lays down this principle as a basic constitutional principle of social protection. What do I mean? Against insurance payments, when the insurance risk occurs, then you get the corresponding social insurance payments. I mean, you get a claim that you put in insurance payments and that you have an individual contribution to this system. The Constitution did not for a reason foresee a second defence network and this is the social support network. What does social assistance mean? Social assistance means supplementing or replacing missing incomes to meet basic living needs. What does that mean? This means that on the basis of an indicator which is called a guaranteed minimum income and on the basis of a guaranteed minimum income, everyone has access to such social assistance that ensures that they meet the basic life needs. Notice that this second defence network is financed under the budget, tax, national solidarity. However, when national solidarity crosses certain limits, a certain measure, when it exceeds this measure of tolerability for society, then it is not only those who are contingent on support because they want more, but also those who pay their taxes in this system. Now that's something that's very important and you have to understand. And the next system, which is important, is the social welfare system, the so-called family policy for children, the benefits that are targeted. When you meet certain conditions, you get the corresponding benefits. Here we are talking about child benefits, about social benefits, some mix that is not legislatively defined in the way in which Bulgarian legislation defines these rights. Why am I saying all these things? Because family policy for children is part of the great social policy, the great social vector and not so important part. Why? Because the funds from the state budget are financed, I stress again that certain activities are financed, which are a priority of this, next or any government. What do colleagues from BSP offer for Bulgaria? One of the proposals is for the II, III and IV class to receive one-off aid. Yes, of course you can accept such a proposal. However, the question is: what do we achieve with such a proposal? Are we taking the kids back to the education system? It has been proven by these multidisciplinary teams, which organized the government, out of those thousand and a hundred teams, who traveled the country and returned 40 thousand children, according to the Ministry of Education, that the main reason for leaving school is migration. So the natural question arises: can we solve all these problems with one-off help? Yeah, we can help them, but I'm not sure we can solve them. Next, for the second third birth, you offer ten minimum wages. I understand, honourable Members, your desire in some way to stimulate birth rates in Bulgaria. That's how I feel about this proposal. Let's see, however, what is the place of birth rate in the demographic crisis and the demographic catastrophe that is already present in Bulgaria. Dear colleagues, Bulgaria's problem is not in the low birth rate, but it has decreased in recent years. Look at Eurostat and there you will see that the birth rate in Bulgaria is 8.8 per cent and the average for the European Union is 8.9 per cent, which does not mean that the birth rate is the most important problem. He's one of the problems. The other more important problem is the overall mortality. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, there we must concentrate our efforts, because if we reduce total mortality, if we do so to increase life expectancy, then we will have reason to direct public resources to social services, to policies towards older people. Look, colleagues, the birth of the Constitution is free. [[Noise and lines.]] Does anyone know that? The Constitution states that the act of birth in Bulgaria is at the expense of the state budget. It's not free. I don't like the word for free because someone pays, even if it's free. This service must be paid. When we talk about giving birth, we need to be aware that what you are proposing is to stimulate those who are provided two years before birth. But, honourable Members, in your motives, you say something very simple: that there is a social spread that you want to help the poorest, but do you think that the uninsured are richer than the insured? Where does that make sense? I understand that there is also an ethnic taste here, because you are also talking about responsible parenting. Can one of you tell me: what and which law is published in the "responsible parenting" because responsible parenting implies irresponsible parenting? Tell me in which law, in which additional provision, is there an explanation of the concept of responsible parenting? I understand what this is about, I know what this is about, but, honourable Members, when we talk about demographics, we cannot dominate one of the elements of demographic policy. Birth rate is only one minor, but one of the elements of demographic policy. Note the trend of increase and reduction in birth rates over the past 10 When there are such European policies, when such policies are deployed, then we can talk that family policy in Bulgaria is at a sufficiently high level. Otherwise, we can make any suggestions, colleagues. We can make such proposals, but we should always be aware that when we cross a border of national solidarity, immediately the other group of dissatisfied jumps and it jumps rightly. Therefore, colleagues, I respect your suggestions, but I do not think that they are the only opportunities that can solve the problems of the demographic crisis in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u134	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House. Dear Dr. Ademov, of course it is important that this is our proposal for the II, III and IV class, because if a child is from a socially weak family and needs help for shoes, trousers, jacket, bag, in the II, III and IV class it also has such a need if parents do not have the opportunity to provide them to the child. That is why we believe that especially in the early stages of education there should not be this disgusting principle when the difference in classes is already visible when some children in the way and in the sneakers they wear It's no secret that in small towns people really hardly send their children to school. Moreover, sometimes it has happened, and that is what we see on TV a boy wearing his sister's closets, which is two years older. Of course, this cannot be tolerated and we believe that it is quite normal for the II, III and IV class this assistance of 250 BGN, which for the right hand can be funny, it seems to us that this is an additional contribution to those people who really send their children to school. And whether it will keep the child in school is a completely different matter. But we want to help these children in the end, because parents meet a certain criterion. Can you extend the time, forgive me?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u136	Increase the time!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u137	Apart from what we offer as aid to a second and third child, you yourself said that they should contribute to national solidarity. That is why we propose that this assistance be based on national solidarity. Yes, these are provided, they end up having their clean incomes can be less than those who de facto conduct themselves on welfare, but he has the courage, he fights, he works, he makes his contribution to the insurance system and we think it's quite normal for these people to help them. As long as the others are waiting...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u138	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u139	Just one sentence, Mr. Chairman. There are people who only sit in front of ATMs on the 25th. Isn't that right? In the sense that we cannot then put them on the same level for the second and third children.. and with this I end, what you said about Bulgaria about the data against Eurostat, in the end whatever is going on in Europe also has a low birth rate in some countries, but with us the disaster is really huge. We just disappear as a nation. That is why we propose these measures. If you don't agree, throw them away. But let's see your measurements. I graduated! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u140	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Second line? I can see that. [[to the right of the hall]] We just have to alternate the lines. Professor Mikhailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Dr. Ademov, dear colleagues! I appreciate your expertise as a specialist in the field of social affairs, but I would like to tell you some things related to the demographic situation in Bulgaria. As in each country, they are conducted by four major factors. You mentioned some of them. This is the birth rate of the European countries; the death rate, which is catastrophically different from the countries in Europe; this is the migration index, which is also catastrophic for Bulgaria; this is the social policy, which is also catastrophic for Bulgaria. In this sense, BSP's proposal is absolutely legal. It concerns, truthfully, what you say, a part of the population, but it is a first step, I would call it a very important step that will give self-esteem, as these four factors that I mentioned to you, they affect each other. Eurostat data on the migration index in Europe came out today. There are 400,000 people living in Germany in one year, of which 29 thousand are Bulgarians in Germany. You know why they're going there, don't you? Because there is a normal social policy for children, as mentioned in the speeches here by our parliamentary group, there is a level of life that is quite different. This we cannot achieve if we neglect the opportunities for raising our children. So by respecting your expertise, I also think that this is about a relatively small figure, which is absolutely comparable as an opportunity to update the budget. This is not the way to downplay a very real proposal with skillful words. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u142	Thank you and I, Professor Mihailov. Third line? Mr. Atanasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Ademov, with all due respect to you and to your expertise I repeat the colleague who spoke just now, I will tell you that the demographic issue is undoubtedly the most important issue not only in Bulgaria, it is the most important issue undoubtedly in the whole world. Aside from an Ireland in Europe... [[(Reply from BSP for Bulgaria: And China!]] No, I'm just talking about Europe. Aside from an Ireland where things are good, and you know, perhaps there because of the culture of this people, many children are always born, the truth is that the whole of Europe suffers from this problem. He's a scourge for the whole of Europe. I would rather dwell on what you said about complex measures. Yeah, but there are two approaches. One approach is the one that you said is complex measures. I completely agree that this is a nice approach. The other approach is step by step. Usually, complex measures make them rich countries, as Orban did for example a revolution in these things. It makes a complex, a package of measures that requires a huge financial resource that the state can't afford right now. Therefore, in my opinion, our approach to a poor country like Bulgaria is certainly a poor state, one step at a time. One step at a time! Otherwise, if we wait on a comprehensive package, I do not see how Bulgaria with these budgets will be able to carry it out in the next 20 years! That's my cue to you. Do you understand? Not that I reject your approach, the point is that the state will not be able to financially endure suddenly introducing a complex of measures. I see here what the left hand wants to do step by step, gently, slightly, slightly improve this process. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u144	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u145	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman! Colleagues, thanks for the lines. They allowed me to return to an alternative proposal from the Finnish model, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Do you know what they offer in Finland with less money than those we set aside in Bulgaria for family policies for children? The Finns are offering the famous so-called Finnish baby box. Each year, certain factors in the country determine the content of this box. Last year, it costs between 400 and 500 euros. Multiply them by the babies that are born in Bulgaria, and you will see that it is not about who knows what amount. By the way, for twins, they give three of these boxes. The box itself can be used as a bed for the newborn baby. That's what the northern states do. Here my colleagues provoked me with what they were doing in Europe. That's what they've been doing in Finland, and they've been doing it for 60 years. It's a successful model. Regarding the lines of colleagues. Yes, of course, these proposals can be supported. The question, however, is what will we achieve with them? The first thing we will do is to cross the limits of solidarity. And when a solidarity, whether it's national, becomes over-solidarity, it goes into drastic contradictions, it goes into a frontal collision with a sense of justice. This is very important, colleagues, because justice is not because Prime Minister Borisov says justice is important for all Bulgarian citizens. Justice, especially in social policy, is something that is basic not from the time of GERB's rule, but from the 19th century. You know, social systems have been starting since the 19th century. Dear colleagues, let us stick to the possible complex measures to be tolerated for all Bulgarian citizens and not to irritate one part of society.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u146	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. We'll continue with the speeches, colleagues. Mr. Simeonov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u147	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! And today we are a victim of the general political blabbering because the submitted bill does not have any serious claims and opportunities to change the demographic picture of Bulgaria. For me, I appreciate it as superficial, written in pajamas before bedtime, just enough to draw attention to a sick subject for society. Why is that? Because I can't get an answer for myself to a few simple questions. In fact, the bill includes two proposals. One is the receipt and payment of children for the II, III and IV class. The second is for the single birth aid of 10 minimum wages. The first question I ask about the first proposal is: why until the fourth grade? Why not V, why not VI, why not VII or VIII? The explanation in the motive is that children grew up fast to the fourth grade. Not at all! Growth is up to 18 years old. That's it! There is no answer to that question! This bill can stop for example not until IV, it can be stopped until V, VI, VII class, and it can be up to II class in the same logic. On the second main proposal, the single-aid offer of 10 minimum wages. Why 10? Why not 30? Why not 60? If there are 30 minimum salaries, our newborn children will receive as much as they receive in Russia. And if we multiply by 60, they'll get what they get in Hungary. For your information, these measures implemented in these two countries, on average between 8 years already working, have resulted in 1% increase in birth rate. Is that what you want? By the way, in some déjà vu I am currently, as on this so serious issue, as Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy, I have given comprehensive and serious answers twice. I've said those things. Speaking of demographics, I just can't stand dilettantes giving grades that nothing was done for her. Those who say that thing, see what they've done so far. Ah, he's out. [[To the MP Pavel Shopov.]] Oh, he was here! [[(BSP for Bulgaria: A, doidé, doidé, doidé, doidé!]] What have you guys done that's giving assessments to angro? Here, I can tell you, first of all, what demography is and Professor Mihailov explained what the demographic question is. What are the parameters of demography? Of course, one parameter is birth rate. But as Mr. Ademov told you, he is not the main one, and he may be the most delicate one. It should be approached with extreme attention and with such a thin toolbox, on which I do not think that in this bill I see some shadows, glares or something like that. There's no such thing. Birth rate, mortality, migration index. That's right! I would add the quality of life. The quality of life! It's very important. They agree on none of the parameters with the heavy qualifications and conclusions that are being suggested. The birth rate was at a very low level. Not at all! It is average for Europe. There are countries with much lower birth rates. Mortality is high, but in terms of life expectancy in Bulgaria, we also have quite serious achievements there. The migration index. I don't know how Mr. Mihailov is light-handedly spreading that this is almost a catastrophic situation? Look at the numbers! For last year, right, every year those returning to Bulgaria are increasing and the trend is that up to 3 years will be equal to those leaving Bulgaria. If about 10 years ago the ratio was 1:4.. four come out one comes back, now the ratio is 2:3, even 2.5:3. This is the ratio of the people leaving the country and returning to Bulgaria. We're talking about facts! Why, I am very interested, absolutely no one takes into account what has been done by this government, despite the disagreement and the vote against the BSP and some other marginal groups of the BSP, no one takes into account, for example, the opening of the labour market for Bulgarians from third countries? This is a very serious demographic move, a big step that hasn't been made in 30 years. For last year alone, about 8,000 people came to the Bulgarian labour market for seasonal employment. Some of them remain, some of them reorganize their stay here in longer-term employment up to nine months, up to one year. We have also increased the regime for blue cards, despite your disagreement. These are all steps that have never been taken before. They're in the direction of demography. And as we have started, let's still give ourselves a general picture of demographics, not to insinuate catastrophic processes and claims that governance is almost destroying the nation. It's not like that!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u148	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov, please finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u149	I'm finishing the sentence. The trend began in 1982 and every 10 years by 3% decreased. And she's-nay-nay-nay-nay-nay-nay-nay-nay-nay-nay-nay-nay-nay-nay-nay-nay-nay-nay-nay-nay-nay-nay-nay-nay-nay-nay-nay-nay-nay-nay-nay! It's not a catastrophic downhill, it's a linear relationship! Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? First of all, Mrs. Jelly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Simeonov, you said, first of all, one of the points of my lines that you agree that stimulating birth rate is one of the elements to deal with the demographic catastrophe, assuming that one of the elements should, here is my question, to reject it, not to work on this element and to stimulate birth rate? Secondly, in my reply, I would like to remind you of a statement you have made since 2017. How the third child should be a child of the state and I will quote to be precise: The state will financially stimulate the birth of a third child in the families in Bulgaria. Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov told journalists that fees for kindergarten will be taken, aid for clothes, teaching aids, so that the third child does not become a burden of the Bulgarian family, but to encourage the birth rate of the country, as the number of families with three children in Bulgaria is very small. In his words, the State must assume its responsibility, including financial, if it wants to change the trends in demographics. Speaking with facts, I want you to tell us and your colleagues what you promised you've done. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u152	Thank you. Second line, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Simeonov, with all due respect to your expertise, which you have acquired as Deputy Prime Minister in charge of demographic policy, I will try to make a line for you. You're asking: why until the fourth grade? Well, let's vote, let's accept it and increase it to grade VIII, it's normal. We've thought about it until the eighth grade, but we've decided that the state doesn't have the resources to do that right now, and when we think that there are such resources in the state, we're going to introduce it. By the way, we will offer the same approach certainly if you now reject it on the budget of the state. Then we will offer up to the VIII grade to see what your arguments will be and up to the VIII grade the argument can be that until then is compulsory education in Bulgaria. Why ten minimum wages? Also, let's accept this in principle, and between the first and second votes, offer thirty salaries, fifty salaries, offer us to outrun the Americans, not the Americans, but the ones you quoted there. You say all these measures in Hungary, and I don't know where they led to a 1% increase in birth rate. Mr. Simeonov, you should know and you should know that we in Bulgaria do not aim to increase the birth rate. We strive to achieve zero... that there will be no more dying than those who are born. To achieve this will be an outstanding success in this country. [[Loud noise and lines.]] So 1%, if we get an increase in growth, it will just be a serious success for the state. A problem other than the demographic catastrophe, which is expressed in the reduction of the population, is its ageing, Mr. Simeonov, so the birth rate becomes of key importance. There is nothing to explain to you exactly what the ageing of the population has to do with Bulgaria. I am running out of time, but let me also say: you have spread about demographics, and in addition to demographics, the aim of the bill is in some way to alleviate the poverty of these Bulgarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u154	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Here's a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Simeonov, you started your speech with the question: why exactly until the fourth grade and not VI, VII and up? The short answer is: because we have felt that at this stage these are the possibilities of the budget. Otherwise, the long-term policy and vision and our vision on this issue is that the state is obliged to give equal opportunity to all its children, because it is clear that no child chooses his parents. In Bulgaria there are children of wealthy parents who study in various expensive colleges, manage to develop their talent and become good citizens, but there are also many children who fail to attend school, only because his parents cannot afford to give him basic opportunities to attend school, such as clothes, textbooks and so on. And the policy in this area is, as I said, to give the state an equal chance to develop talent for its children. Otherwise, when a talented child, thanks to the fact that his parents don't have the opportunity to send him to school, he becomes a criminal, unemployed and so on. Then, instead of making a good shot of the labour market, we send it, as I said, either to commit crimes or to the welfare market. This is a long-term policy and vision for BSP. The first step is up to the fourth grade because we do not want populist proposals, but proposals that are supported by the possibilities of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u156	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Mr. Simeonov, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u157	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! By the lines of Mrs. Jeleva. These are exactly the measures that I just mentioned as more careful, delicate and thin, so to speak. That's an offer I made back then. What of these things that I have promised I have fulfilled? My commitment to demography has fulfilled it to the maximum extent that I have been given the opportunity to do so by focusing on labour migration, and I am telling you this all the time, do not underestimate it. You somehow ignore the people, the Bulgarians who have returned to Motherland. You want to increase the birth rate, there's nothing wrong with it. I, by the way, can't remember if I had any deal with you, a bet for... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I was going to pay you one-time benefits in triple. I can tell you one other way or another to answer you why I didn't fulfill it. Well, just because you were the first to ask me for my resignation and you got it, so don't ask me! On Mr. Gokov's statement, why, Mr. Gokov, do we, in the course of the debates between first and second readings, make a change? I wanted not on the particular class to which the giving of monthly children should continue to focus, but on what is your argumentation in this bill, which is superficial and vague. Yeah, we can go to VIII, and we can go to XII, except you don't have an argument, so I told you this bill was written in pajamas before bedtime. It is not our job to apply up to the eighth grade, respectively thirty times the increase. Argument, convince us you are the importers of the Bill. And Mr. Prodanov also lacks argument in your motives why until IV grade? What you are claiming is an equal chance for all children in this way by paying one-off monthly benefits, in no case stimulates a good and responsible raising of children. Very often these benefits will be exams, eaten and swayed in the gypsy neighborhoods as endless fun, harassing other people with their noise. It is not an obstacle for children who receive aid to become criminals, there is no direct link between this. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u158	Thank you. Personal explanation, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Simeonov! My fellow Members, when we are talking about figures, and when we are talking about these indicators, which you have quoted so correctly, we must very carefully quote the figures and I will tell you that I have not said anything that does not correspond to the truth. Bulgaria is at the top of the mortality rate in Europe, and for some of the regions of Bulgaria the assessment is that mortality is, as in military actions or mass disasters, which is scandalous. Bulgaria is ranked first at the level of early preventable death; by the level of mortality up to 65 years old. Bulgaria has twice as high infant mortality. I mean, we can't have any doubts here about the things we're reporting, but a tendency that there is, but this trend will in no case lead us to a first position than the last and more years. Secondly, regarding what you said about returning people from emigration, the positive migration index. You should know that a crucial part of the people who are returning to Bulgaria are in retirement age and now the data of Eurostat... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u160	The remarks from the Chamber are made, Professor Mihailov, that you are going beyond the context of a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u161	...for 500,000 people already entitled to a pension, but 80% of the people who leave Bulgaria are in reproductive age. And that's what our proposal is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u162	Professor Mikhailov, please, if you don't enter the personal explanation...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u163	The personal explanation was precisely on the basis of the data I was quoting, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u164	Yes, I did, but you're essentially making a statement right now. Thank you. We'll continue with the speeches, colleagues. Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u165	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have repeatedly debated these proposals here in this Chamber. This bill has been dealt with several times in 2017, separately between first and second reading these proposals we have considered them when we were looking at the State Budget Act for 2018 and 2019. And in 2017, and then these proposals have been rejected with some serious arguments. And now GERB's parliamentary group will not support this bill. With regard to the first extension proposal, the scope for receiving single aid for first-graders shall be obtained for the II, III and IV class. Expanding the scope of single aid for first-graders will not reduce the number of students leaving the education system. This cannot be a motive to make this proposal once again, because studies show that the largest share of students dropping out of school in the secondary and secondary stages of education and not of students up to IV grade. This shows that the offer and the reasons of the importers do not correspond to the actual data. With regard to the other main motive that you point out for extending the scope of these aids to poverty, I also disagree, because studies, data show that the main motive for dropping children from the educational system in the first place, is the lack of Bulgarian language, which is not a native language. Secondly, this is a strong migration. The children of seasonal workers are a major problem. Parents who go seasonally to work outside Bulgaria take the children with them and they do not attend school there. Thirdly, as another reason for dropping children from education these are early marriages and others. But in no case can I agree with the motives of the importers that this is poverty. It's a speculation, a mantra that's constantly insinuating us. With regard to the second proposal, the amount not to be less than the tenfold amount of the minimum wage for the country is not less than the minimum wage for the second and third children to be given to insured parents 24 months before the birth of the child. I believe, as did Dr. Ademov just said, that this is an unstoppable, unjustified proposal. Dear colleague on the left, when you wrote this bill, you missed a very important point, namely that single family assistance is provided to all parents, regardless of whether they are provided or not, and you are suddenly putting a condition for getting one-time help for parents to have 24 months of insurance before the birth of the child. Direct discrimination is also conditional on the availability of insurance for 24 months before birth in order to obtain this higher amount of single birth aid, and this discrimination is in relation to both parents and children themselves. Once again, fellow Members, you mix the concepts. I told you that, and Dr. Ademov said that in his speech. You mix the notions of social assistance, social security and social assistance. Social benefits are paid from the state budget. Family support for children is financed entirely by state budget funds. They do not have the nature of a social security payment that is in the Social Security Code. Once again, I would like to stress that the one-time childbirth assistance in the order of art. 6 The Law on Family Aid for Children is the right of all mothers who give birth to a living child, and is granted without a profitable test. Setting a condition for the availability of insurance 24 months before the birth of the child, I think it is inappropriate, unacceptable. This is, as I said, discriminatory both for parents themselves and for children themselves. Unreasonably, colleagues, it is your proposal to bind the single birth aid to the minimum wage. In 2011, colleagues who were at the Forty-first National Assembly knew that we adopted a number of regulations that freed the minimum wage from a number of social payments. The minimum wage in essence is a unit of measure for the price of labor and depends on the economic dynamics of the country. I am finishing my speech and stress once again that we cannot support this bill because inexplicably, unprofessionally, it is written with gross errors. Dear colleagues, you have been on the Social Committee for two and a half years now, learn to distinguish between social assistance and social security. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Social benefits do not have the nature of compensation and in no case can we adopt such measures per piece, with a vague and short-term effect. Naturally, this proposal has only a populist nature. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u166	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. - What's the line? One minute for a line left in the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u167	Not a little bit. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Angelova, don't give us instructions on how to write the laws, because we still have some logic. Our logic was exactly from your statement. You said the kids quit high school and high school because they're illiterate. And they're illiterate because they didn't go from I to IV grade. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] where we want to help them and their parents. That's the logic! When you learn logically to think and see life, then you can tell us how to write the laws. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u168	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Second line? You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u169	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! To the replicator, I would say: I would be ashamed, if I were you, of this proposal, of mixing social assistance. [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] supplied social benefits with social security. In this way, you reduce legislative initiatives. There can't be such gross mistakes. With regard to the proposals, I would say that if you offer something new, something constructive, something innovative, we agree to support it, but two and a half years you offer us the same mantra. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. I don't see anyone else who wants to make speeches. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children, No 954-01-40, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 170 MPs: 76, against 18, abstention 76. The offer is not accepted. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u171	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll take the floor for procedure. The sale of electronic monthly wineries for Bulgarian carriers and Bulgarian citizens has been suspended since morning in the country. The chaos with the tol system is now as we predicted, by the way. Only daily and weekly wine can be sold. Carriers are wondering what to do on the Bulgarian roads. Please, Mr. Chairman, on the basis of I don't know which Rule of Procedure [[Laughter and raging]] , to call the Minister of Regional Development to explain what is happening in the state, the chaos created with the adoption or failure to accept the amendments in the Roads Act, because Bulgarian carriers stand on the Bulgarian roads without knowing what to do. To give instructions will there be monthly billings, will it be paid, will it be free travel? Someone in charge should come and explain. The chaos that you have caused him the last two or three weeks, which we have warned you about, has already been a fact from now on, the Bulgarian carriers are standing on the streets and do not know what to do. Therefore, my request is to call the Minister of Regional Development to explain what the situation is and what measures has the executive taken to overcome the problem? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u172	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. I understand your question. I'll do what I have to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u173	Dear Members of Parliament, we continue with the next item on our agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR CHANGE OF THE SOCIAL DISCLOSURE CODE. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Here you are, Dr. Ademov, to present the report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u174	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a draft law supplementing the Social Security Code, No 954-01-38, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 12 June 2019. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 3 July 2019 discussed and discussed a draft law supplementing the Social Security Code, No 954-01-38, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Petya Malakova, Head of Department at the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Conditions at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Vesela Karaivanova, Deputy Governor of the National Insurance Institute, Dragomir Draganov, Director of the Department of Analyses, Planning and Predicting at the National Insurance Institute, Vanya Grigorova, Advisor to the President of the KT Suprepa, and Stoyanka Sotirova, National Coordinator in the Union for Business Initiative. The bill was presented by the National Representative Georgi Gokov, focusing on the aim of the Bill, which is to recalculate all pensions for work allocated by 31 June 2016. Moreover, the recalculation of pensions should be periodically, at least four years old. The importers of the Bill believe that if such proposals were accepted back in the years, this bill would have far more bearable financial dimensions. In addition, recalculating pensions with the average social security income for 2015 would partially clear the inequality problems. The proposed bill is only one of the necessary steps to seek a lasting solution with the adequacy of the size of pensions. According to the importers, it is the first and most important. Otherwise, the problem of one of the basic principles of insurance, such as the principle of equal treatment of insured persons, will further deepen. Any delay in the decision in the future will require ever greater financial resources. According to the reasons of the Bill, not a small part of the Bulgarian citizens have incomes at the limit of physical survival. To the most extent, this applies to pensioners and people over 65 years of age. Poor elderly people increased from 22.6% in 2014 to 29.2% in 2018. In a poverty line for 2019. 348 BGN, the minimum pension for internship and age from 1 July will become 219 BGN and the average pension for 2019 will be about 386 BGN. Over 1.3 million pensioners (60% of the total number) have pensions below the poverty line. At the same time, no substantial change in the amount of pensions is envisaged except for the annual update of 1 July. The situation is intolerable and requires rapid and urgent measures, situated over time, which will not violate basic principles of insurance and demotivate young Bulgarians at all. Importers propose to deal with this situation as an addition to the Social Security Code to recalculate all old pensions. Importers propose this measure with the understanding that a fundamental principle in ensuring equal treatment and solidarity between insured persons is. In accordance with art. 70 of the Social Security Code, the amount of the pension for insurance service and age depends on: the country's average monthly insurance income for the last 12 months prior to retirement, the ratio between the insurance income of the person and the country's average insurance income for the defined period and the person's insurance service. Subject to the principle of equal treatment, insured persons having the same insurance contribution, the same duration of insurance service and the same ratio between the insurance income of the person and the average insurance income of the country for the defined period should receive close-by-size pensions for insurance service and age. However, because the average social security income of the country over the years is different, even with the same contribution of the persons, the amount of pension is often significantly different. In order to reduce these differences, it is necessary to periodically recalculate the amount of old retirement pensions and age with the current average social security income for the country. The last such recalculation was made in 2008 with the average social security income for 2007. The average social security income for 2018 has increased more than twice compared to the one for 2007. As a result, for the last 10 years the differences between old and new pensions, with the same social contribution of the insured person, have become significant. This condemns not a small part of the Bulgarian pensioners, despite their social contribution, to receive lower pensions and to actually squander. Apart from this, it opposes the people with old pensions of the new pensioners and discourages working people from providing themselves with their real income. In the preliminary assessment of the impact of the proposed bill, in the part, the cost and benefit analysis of the importers have recorded that the remuneration of pensions from 1 September 2019 with the average social security income for 2015 will cost about 550 million. lv. It is stated in the section "Request on the regulatory framework' that the adoption of the proposed changes must receive its coverage in the state budget and the budget of the state social security for 2019. The Commission received and submitted to the importers of the Draft and the members of the Commission opinions of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria, Bulgarian Industrial Association, Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, KT In the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, there are general disagreements with the Law from a social and fiscal point of view. Minister Biser Petkov presented the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, focusing on several arguments that give reason not to support the bill. According to the formula and the elements involved in calculating the amount of the pension, one of the items is the monthly average social security income for the previous 12 months. It follows from the method adopted to calculate pensions that, depending on the month of pension granting, persons with the same social contribution receive different pensions. The legislative decision adopted to take into account the country's average monthly social security income for 12 calendar months prior to the month in which the pension was granted is related to the fact that until now the person was involved in the insurance, paid insurance contributions and his income was accounted for in determining the country's average monthly social security income. After retirement, persons who have not worked and have not been insured have no contribution to its growth, therefore it is assumed that there is no reason for their pensions to be determined or recalculated according to this income. Given that the average monthly social security income is increasing, this is the permanent trend that has been established in recent years, it is not possible that the amount of pensions calculated by one formula and by the same individual coefficient and internship, but granted in different years, are not the same. In order to avoid the lag of the pensions allocated in previous years compared to those newly granted, other mechanisms are provided for in our legislation. The Minister recalled that it was about updating the pensions under art. 100 of the Social Security Code, which was applied until 2016, was then replaced by the same effect by the recalculation of pensions on the basis of § 53 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. The recent changes have restored the application of art. 100, which was temporarily frozen because of the other recalculation mechanism with a higher burden of internship. This is the mechanism that is being applied. Since 1 July 2019 all pensions have been updated by 5.7%, just to avoid or reduce this objective lag that exists on old pensions compared to newly released ones. The employers' organizations' opinions do not support the proposed bill with the arguments that such types of proposals that change the budgetary framework should be made during the discussions of the State Budget Act and the State Social Security Budget Act. In addition, there must be serious and detailed financial estimates to be reflected in the three-year budget forecast. The opinion of the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria states that the organization does not share the proposed additions to the Bill. For the CST, the correct and fair decision on the size of pensions, including their update and target increase, must first of all take into account the contribution of the persons who have received insurance service and income on which the contributions have been made and only thereafter assess the need for additional support from those whose pension benefits are below a certain limit. This is the approach that complies with the principles of provision and which does not subordinate solidarity to objectives belonging to other elements of social protection systems. The proposal contained in the Bill, except that it kills the incentives to secure higher incomes for the current employees, violates the basic principles applied in the insurance policy. It is clear from the minutes of the meeting of the Committee on Insurance Relations of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation that the examination of the bill does not reach unanimity by the members of the Commission and is to be considered in the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. The National Insurance Institute shall not engage in a position but shall provide detailed calculations of the necessary financial resources if the bill is supported and its implementation is initiated. Specifically for the present proposal, the National Insurance Institute points out that in the case of recalculation with this insurance income an increase will receive about 1, 286 985 or 74.6 per cent of the pensions to be recalculated, and the size of some of them will reach the new maximum amount of BGN 1200. and will be limited by it. The average amount of pensions received as a result of the recalculation will increase from BGN 391,20. This is their amount after the increase of 1 July 2019 by 5,7 percent, in so far as the Bill does not explicitly state that the envisaged increase of 1 July 2019 will not be made due to a recalculation from 1 September 2019 at around 500,00 BGN. Or 27.8 percent. They will not receive an increase of 438 046 pensions, of which: - 344 012 are pensions equivalent to the minimum size for the species concerned; - around 19,500 pensions, limited to the maximum amount of 1200 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - 74 500 pensions between the minimum and the maximum amount granted before 1 January 2016 with income lower than 726,40 BGN, but as a result of the updates in the following years their sizes have reached values higher than those they would receive in the calculation. The discussion was attended by the MPs Svetlana Angelova, Georgi Gokov, Nadia Klisurska, Violeta Jeleva and Hassan Ademov. The discussion was attended by representatives of pensioners who offered their opinions on the draft. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 7 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Asks the National Assembly not to support the first vote Draft for Supplement to the Social Security Code, No 954-01-38, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 12 June 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u175	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. There is no report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Is there any desire on the part of the importers to present the bill? Here you are, Mr. Gokov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u176	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! After our proposal for amendments to the Social Aid Act for children has been rejected and the ruling majority has again shown its social insensitivity, I will present to you another bill, which I can say is from the social package of laws that we have recently introduced by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. This is the introduced on June 12th by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In fact, I must once again tell you that an importer of the bill is almost the entire parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria. This is because it is our commitment to the people of retirement age and consistent political position. The proposal itself is that a new paragraph is added in the Transitional and Final Provisions to order pensions for employment granted until 31 December 2016, to be recalculated from 1 September 2019 and the individual coefficient of the person is multiplied by the monthly average social income for the country for 2015, which is BGN 726,40, after which the amount of the pension is determined under the terms and conditions of Articles 70, 75, 79 of the Social Security Code. In the Bill we have foreseen the recalculation of pensions to be carried out only if it is more favourable to the person. The main function of the pension system is to ensure the protection of elderly people's income after their retirement from the labour market, to protect them from poverty and to guarantee them an acceptable level of replacement of income after retirement. One rhetorical question follows: is this main function of the Bulgarian pension system? In my opinion, the answer is no. If we say that Bulgarian pensioners are the most unjust people in Bulgaria and live day by day, we will be right for at least 90 percent of them. If we say they're forgotten by the government, we'll be 100% right. What do I mean, when I say forgotten? No one in this House can deny the obvious that pensions for insurance service and age in our country, which we are talking about in the submitted bill, are inadequate and unduly low, and in the pension system are accumulated problems and distortions that you do not want to acknowledge and discuss. And these problems practically date from the beginning of the model of the pension system, as the most serious event have occurred after 2000, when a radical reform of the Bulgarian pension system took place. It was introduced as part of Bulgaria's commitments to the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund and brought nothing good to the Bulgarian pensioners. Today, nearly 20 years after the reform, we can state that none of its objectives have been achieved. In particular, this applies to the setting up of an increase in the overall level of pension protection with a view to ensuring a better material situation for current and future pensioners and also to achieving greater social justice in pension insurance. In other words, adequate amounts of pensions that allow pensioners to live normally will not. It is quite obvious that today, once again, we need a broad public debate on the future of the Bulgarian pension system, including the size of pensions. Can it provide at least two thirds of Bulgarian pensioners with adequate pensions to allow them to live normally and for the remaining one third to think of support through the social system? All decisions and actions after 2000 should be analysed, as well as the missed opportunities for concrete actions that led the Bulgarian pension system to its present state, and it is a lack of public confidence, low pensions, financial instability and an inability to meet the long-term demographic, economic and social challenges. Finally, the government of GERB, after 10 years of governance of this country and its pension system, must recognise that today the pension system cannot provide adequate pensions and if no measures are taken, Bulgarian pensioners will be exposed to a strong risk of poverty in the future. The rate of replacement of past labour income will decrease, and private pension pensions will hardly be able to compensate for the decline in the adequacy of pensions. There are extremely many challenges and the unknown to the role not only of universal but also of professional funds to ensure decent living conditions for elderly people in the future. And the additional mandatory pension insurance obviously cannot meet the higher expectations for it. In practice, the number of adults will grow more and more, the number of insured and more pensioners will live below the poverty line, relying only on the pension system for their maintenance. A small part of Bulgarian citizens have incomes at the limit of physical survival. To the most extent, this applies to pensioners and people over 65 years of age. Poor elderly people grew from 22.6% in 2014 to 29.2% in 2018. In the poverty line for 2019 from 348 BGN. The minimum pension for insurance internship from 1 July became 219 BGN and the average pension for 2019 will be about 386 BGN. Over a million and three hundred thousand Bulgarian pensioners or this is 60% of their total number, with pensions below the poverty line. Both from the budget forecast and from the statements of the Bulgarian citizens responsible for the income factors of the government it is clear that no significant change in the amount of pensions is envisaged except their annual update from 1 July under art. 100 of the Social Security Code. The situation is intolerable and urgent measures are required that do not violate the basic principles of insurance and demotivate young Bulgarians to provide what is, for example, the increase of the minimum pension only. One such measure, we believe, is the proposed recalculation of pensions granted by 31 December 2016 with an average monthly insurance income for the country for 2015. The main one, which I already said is 726,40 leva. A fundamental principle in providing is the equality and solidarity of the insured persons. In accordance with art. 70 of the Social Security Code, the amount of the pension for insurance service and age depends on the country's average monthly income for the last 12 months before retirement, the ratio between the insurance income of the person and the average income of the country for the defined period, and the insurance service of the person. Subject to the principle of equal treatment, insured persons having the same social contribution, the same duration of the insurance service and the same ratio between the insurance income of the person and the average social security income of the country for the defined period should receive close in size pensions for insurance service and age due to the fact that the average social security income of the country in recent years is different even with the same social security contribution of the persons and the amount of their pensions is significantly different. In order to reduce these differences, a periodic recalculation of the amount of the pension allocated over time may be applied for internship and age with a current average social security income for the country. The last such recalculation of pensions was carried out in 2008 with a medium-term income for 2007, which is 398,17 BGN. You all know from whom this proposal was proposed and implemented. The average insurance income for 2018 is now BGN 889,90. As a result, the differences between old and new pensions for the past 10 years, if we can call the pensions allocated earlier in time, with the same insurance service of the insured person, have become significant. This condemns not a small part of the Bulgarian pensioners, despite their social contributions, to receive lower pensions and to actually squander. Apart from that, it opposes the people with the earlier pensions allocated to the new pensioners and disincentives working people to provide themselves with their real income. Recalculation of pensions must be periodic, at least four years old. Unfortunately, all the proposals so far have been rejected and the solutions are becoming more expensive. Recalculating pensions with medium-term income for 2015 would partially clear the inequality issues, but further steps must be planned for adequate pensions. The proposed recalculation is only one of the necessary steps to seek a lasting solution, but it is important because otherwise the problem with one of the basic principles of insurance, as is the equal treatment of insured persons, will deepen. Any delay in the time of a decision on pensions will require ever greater financial resources. I will not talk about the necessary funds until the end of the year and for the next years. The numbers are in our motives and in the opinions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the NSI. It's not a small amount of money, but our mothers and fathers deserve it, and we have to find them. I am waiting for support from all parliamentary groups despite the negative opinions and decisions of the Committee on Labour and Social Policy. We have a difficult decision ahead of us, but our pensioners, our mothers and fathers, demand that this be done now and immediately. Thank you. [[Applause, cheering: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u177	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak, honourable Members. Here you go, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u178	Madam President, honourable Members! A few months ago, we had a similar debate about recalculating pensions. I remember it very well because during this debate, in expressing our opinions and opinions, there were a lot of calls from this part of the Chamber, insults. It was insulting to me, but it was also insulting to the pensioners, because this is a very big problem for our country and instead of realizing it, you are somehow neglecting it and saying that we have already done this, but give me something new. What's new? What is new, as a very large proportion of pensioners live with minimal, miserable funds? I don't see what you can come up with so innovatively. The only thing that can be done at this stage is yes, then in the debate it may become clear that there are other mechanisms, but this is one of the main mechanisms that we can take, and this is recalculating pensions now, and then indexing properly. I am making this proposal because there is a deepening injustice - an increasing difference between new and old pensions. Despite a series of reforms, the government has no plan to deal with this problem. The difference between old and new pensions is very big. I don't know if it's a systemic defect. Maybe those who are much more competent can say. The main thing that is said that the majority of elderly people retired a long time ago, when wages were low, the new pensions suggest that they made contributions on higher social security income. Where the pension is granted, the individual coefficient shall be multiplied by the country's average insurance income for the preceding 12 months and by another insurance service factor. In other words, the pension depends on the insurance contribution and income in the previous year. If you have retired in a year, on good wages, you win, but if the insurance income continues not to grow, your pension will fall behind in time. Really older pensioners have retired under lower requirements for internship. From this point of view, it can be said that their contribution to the insurance system is lower, but this is not exactly the case, because before the contributions were higher, if they were now about 19%, then there were 37% because it was another system. Therefore, because of the difference in the amount of insurance contributions, we have reason to believe that older pensioners have a comparable and, in some cases, an even greater contribution to the insurance system. The problem is partly solved by the so-called Swiss rule, which requires that pensions be updated annually in an equal-share ratio of inflation and an increase in the insurance income. That is, if inflation increases by 2% and income by 10, pensions should rise by 6%. In the years following the crisis, this rule was lagging behind, and in the 2015 reform, it was decided to replace it with a coefficient taking into account the insurance service. In the years of low inflation or wage pressure, the crisis seems to result in insufficient update of pensions or update, which means that this rule is not appropriate and another mechanism needs to be added. Here I draw a note for statistics that you should know when deciding how to vote. The top 7 is the lowest cost of pensions in the European Union. The cost of pensions in Bulgaria is one of the lowest in the European Union and also as a total amount of funds and as a share of the country's gross domestic product. In Bulgaria, the cost of pensions is 8.4% of gross domestic product, while on average for the countries of the European Union, for the elderly, it is 12.6% of gross domestic product. This is what the latest official data from the European Statistical Office Eurostat indicate. Finally, I would like you to ask yourself a question............................................................................................ is the line of poverty and we give the pensioners 220 leva. How about this? Can these pensioners live like this and everything you will say after that does not matter because the Bulgarians see it, the Bulgarians see how our elderly people live? But, as I can see, you're talking here, you don't care about that as you started. This topic is not important to you, but if politicians give up on their promises every time they come to implement, no reform, whether it is pension, will not happen. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u179	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. Are there any lines? I won't. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u180	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam President, just now our colleague Mr. Svilenski urged from this tribune the Minister of Regional Development Mrs. Avramova to come here and explain what is happening with the sale of cars, for vehicles over 3.5 tons. Do we have an answer? Is he coming? Because we keep getting calls from carriers who sit on the roads and don't know what to do. This is an extremely important question. Just a few days ago, we had a debate about the Tol system regarding changes proposed by a group of MPs, and then Deputy Minister Nankov, who was here explained very calmly that everything is okay with this system. Is Mrs. Avramova afraid now to come and answer to the Bulgarian carriers what is happening today and why not sell monthly wineries? When will the system's full work be restored? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u181	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. I suppose the leader before me Mr. Hristov did what was necessary to inform Minister Avramova. We continue with the speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u182	Just one procedure, to explain.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u183	Go ahead, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u184	Dear Madam President, I have contacted Minister Avramova and Deputy Minister Nankov. They are currently unavailable because they are in the country, not in Sofia. They'll be here as soon as they can.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. We continue with the speeches. Are there any speeches? Mrs. Lecheva, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u186	Dear Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As I said at the beginning, in the previous point, which we discussed, I see that there is an annoyance on the part of the government, the Patriots, regarding the topic we are discussing, and it is extremely important because it concerns more than a million and a half Bulgarian citizens and citizens of retirement age. I am sure that everyone in the campaign for MPs has met with pensioners, listened to their questions, problems, made commitments, even remember that some from here, from the political forces, won votes and presence in parliament precisely because of the promise of 300 leva. pensions, but today they keep quiet, I'd say, guilty of what they've taken on as commitments. I'll allow myself to read an address, remind you of what you've been listening to, but I'll read it to you. It is one of the largest non-governmental organization of the Union of pensioners "2004," which calls on all MPs to take the legal measures by which they will show their attitude towards the current problems of the Bulgarian society and in particular the elderly: We demand that you engage in the update of all pension reform issues, fair and annual reclaim pensions on medium-term income for all pensioners, as is in many European countries. These are the questions we asked during the campaign and today we demand their resolution, both by all the rulers and by all the representatives of the opposition. I regret that here is our colleague from Veliko Tarnovo District, Milen Mihov, who was with me at the last conference of the Regional Organization of Pensioners in Veliko Tarnovo, is currently not in the Chamber because he would recall those questions that put Bulgarian pensioners and organizations before us again. What do we do with this huge social injustice and how do they feel in parliament after opposing a huge number, a percentage of Bulgarian pensioners were part of the insurance system, people with teachers' professions who today have equal pensions with those who have never been part of the insurance system and have neither worked nor studied nor have any professional value? I will also read another address of one of our fellow citizens from Veliko Tarnovo region, who has turned to all institutions, including the Social Policy Committee, Todor Minchev is said by the village of Ovcha mound. He says so: "The reason for me to turn to you is by comparing the pensions of the elderly from the countries of the European Union, to which we have been a member for 12 years, the pensions of the elderly from our neighbouring countries and the pensions of the elderly people in Bulgaria, which are just over 100 euros. In order not to make such a big difference in the amount of pensions, I suggest you examine the experience of the above countries to use criteria in determining the amount of pensions and apply them in Bulgaria. I suggest that you propose to your committee to discuss the possibility of recalculating all pensions on the basis of modern social security income. I'm not going to read the whole address and the whole letter filled with a lot of bitterness, the bitterness of this man. He only says: "In this situation I am not only me, but more than 70% of the elderly in Bulgaria. Ladies and gentlemen, you are treating, I see, with annoyance and, I would say, with extreme disregard for a serious issue that we are discussing today, namely the situation of the pensioners in Bulgaria. Extremely insulting, shameful for a country that has been a member of the European Union for 12 years.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. Are there any lines? Mr. Simeonov, here's the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u188	Dear Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Lecheva, where did you get so much spite from? [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Applause by GERB.)]] Not like that with the gourmet, take it easy! Who are you talking about? Do you know who you're quoting here from this microphone? People who have the most consistent policy regarding the increase of pensions of pensioners in Bulgaria. Since you weren't there at the time, you probably looked at this word twice or three times: with annoyance on the side, or you were dealing with something else. [[Reply from the National Representative Alexander Pawnov.]] I can give you back the tape and here the first row tossers for 300 lv. You weren't there either, Pawnov, take it easy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u189	I've been here, you haven't been here at all. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u190	I wasn't there when you were born, but that's another question. I would like to tell you that December 2016 here in this House was looking at the 2017 budget. After a preliminary, non-confidential meeting of the management of the Patriotic Front and the BSP under the leadership of Mrs. Ninova, upstairs in the Western Hall the relevant consultations were held, in which you took the commitment to support our proposal for 300 BGN. minimum pension. So what did you do? Do you know what your ancestors have done here in the Chamber? They didn't do anything! When the general budget framework was voted on, I repeat, December, the meeting, when the budget was voted on, they simply did not vote on the common framework and thus crippled the possible increase in pensions. Then, when it was already the specific text for the "receipts," the facts of the parliamentary group were cut off 20 votes to support just like that, as to show that they are not quite indifferent to this issue. Well, that's the story of the struggle to raise pensions. See, now you come new, reborn, refined, I don't know where, maybe from heaven, you come down from heaven, and you start handing out judgments and assessments to the left, and to the right. Not like that with the gourmet! Not like that!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u191	You're using strangers. Is there a second line? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u192	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Lecheva, I want you to tell Mr. Simeonov here from this tribune. [[strong noise, laughter and excitement in GERB]] Don't mess with that talk, because we already said once who voted how they did. It is clear that those who made the proposal then were not in the Chamber. Tell him I'll bother again to get the data out of who voted and how many people voted. I'll give it to the journalists. But he'd be ashamed to go up on that stand and do lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u193	You're lecturing Mrs. Lecheva because the line should have been to her.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u194	Yeah, that's what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u195	Third line? Are the other groups willing to say a line? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u196	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Lecheva, I am convinced that no one can give as much as BSP to promise within an opposition speech. [[Applause from OP and GERB.]] Today, BSP's free social demagogy exercises will cost the state, if we accept them, about 2.2 billion. lv. That is, within five or six meetings, we can end the state budget and go home to dissolve the parliament and make savings in terms of our costs. It is good that strong words are used, such as annoyed and so on. However, I can use another word with a similar color, and it is a fundamental hypocrisy. The party that robbed the Bulgarian pensioners, which brought them to two dollars pensions, cannot BSP. [[(heavy noise and lines from BSP for ……]] , to hold mentoring tone. You cannot hide from the fact that we are the only ones who have consistently raised the issue of income increases, and we have achieved them, especially for the minimum pension. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This process continues, by the way. This process will continue because in the management agreement that we have signed with GERB, there is a commitment to recalculate the old pensions. Personally, I am sure that our parliamentary group will put this topic in the talks about the next budget and will defend it. Between you and me, I've decided to vote for your proposal. I will think until the end of the meeting whether the obvious desire to use this topic purely electionally, purely populist and in order to obtain some political dividends will not dissuade me. I'm still having second thoughts. From your statements, colleagues from the BSP, I will judge the purity of your intentions and, respectively, I will make the decision for my vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u197	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that Minister Avramova is on his way to the National Assembly to answer the question. A hole? Mrs. Lecheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u198	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I only showed you the bitterness in a million and a half Bulgarian citizens. And what you ironicize is the Bulgarian pensioners are far above the level of Mr. Simeonov to discuss his behaviour here on the parliamentary stand, and the irony with which he deals. [[Noise and lines.]] I see that you and Mrs. Angelkova have already emptied the Bulgarian beaches. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] The way you manage is indicative. So I see what the Bulgarian state brings your coalition interactions with the ruling coalition of GERB. Twelve years later, in that mandate 2005, BSP updated Bulgarian pensions and left the state of the state much more enviable than we found it 12 years later. At the time, economic growth was between 6 and 7% and today is only 3.6%. That unseemly level at which you leave the Bulgarian state will cost us years and years of effort to restore the level that we were 2005 and 2009. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. Mr. Ivanov, you want the floor for procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u200	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I am doing a procedure for extending the working hours due to the request for a hearing of Minister Avramova. Minister Avramova will come. I suggest we extend the time until her arrival and her hearing. Thank you. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yeah, he's coming today. So I suggest we extend it today.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u201	Until the end of her response. Is that how I understand your proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u202	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u203	Is there a reverse offer? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please clarify, however, do you want to listen to Minister Avramova or do you not want to? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We're expecting her to arrive any minute. Maybe he's going into the building. We vote on Mr. Stanislav Ivanov's procedural proposal to extend the working hours of the National Assembly until the answer of Minister Avramova is completed. They voted 114 MPs: 110, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We continue with Dr. Ademov's statement. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This discussion, related to the reclaim of the so-called old pensions, because such a term is not available, can be called populist, can be called election. It can be characterized in any way. The truth is that this discussion excites Bulgarian pensioners and Bulgarian citizens and we must give the appropriate answer. In this case, an institutional answer, if we accept this recalculation, let's say why we accept it, if we don't accept it, why we don't accept it. So beyond emotional arguments, beyond populist arguments, if you will, I will try to focus on expert arguments because they are important. Why are they important? Because what is said to be recalculating all pensions is not true, honourable ladies and gentlemen importers. This proposal to recalculate pensions with the social security income from 2015 concerns, I am telling you precisely, 1 286 985 pensioners. What do we tell the rest of the nearly 1 million pensioners? We tell them that from September 1st to the end of the year it takes 560 million, which 560 million will go to recalculate pensions, I repeat the number, of 1, 286,985 pensioners. Who are the others? Those of the maximum amount, those whose pensions have already surpassed the insurance income for 2015, those that are equal to the minimum amount of pensions offered by the colleagues from the "United Patriarchs." This is very important to understand because if we understand this thing, we say that the proposal we are making is at an extremely high fiscal price, with not so high effect for the Bulgarian pensioners. Look at the National Insurance Institute estimates. What I'm telling you is the numbers. I know that this recalculation of pensions will ever happen. Do you know when it's gonna happen? When in an election campaign, in an election platform, a political force, whoever it is, gained the trust of the Bulgarian voters. With this proposal, he will have the moral right to spend 560 million. lv. in four months, 1 billion. 600 million. lv. for next year, 1 billion. 900 million. lv. for the following year. These are the fiscal parameters, outside the emotional arguments. This is about more than this resource, which is now, and this year it is 9 billion. Seven hundred million. lv. How can this money be provided? In a couple of ways. The first way to increase wages, increase employment, increase gross domestic product growth and so on. The second way to increase insurance contributions. The third way to raise taxes. Because with such an increase, it will be necessary to resort to a source of funding when recalculating pensions. This is important to note from an expert point of view. Otherwise, any political decision can be made. I would therefore also like to say the arguments in favour of what my fellow Members say. See now what they say with the insurance income for 2015, because if it is with the insurance income for 2018, the numbers will be significantly higher. We say so: the formula for calculating the amount of the pension includes one parameter, except for all others, which is called the average social security income for the last 12 months before the date of retirement. If today Georgi Gyokov is retiring my friend and colleague [[Replication of the National Representative Georgi Gokov]] , its pension amount will be calculated as its individual coefficient multiplied by the social security income for 2018, if this year is the year. However, if a person named Georgi Gokov, who worked 10 years earlier under the same conditions, has the exact same insurance service, the exact same insurance income, will have a lower amount of pension, because every average social security income year before retirement grows over the years, even grows every month. He, the average social security income, is now close to BGN 1000. And what colleagues offer is BGN 726,40. Does it make sense what the coworkers are suggesting? That's what they say: there should be a level playing field. Yeah, that's one of the principles of social security. However, in order to have a level playing field, those who are opponents of this proposal say something very important Here's the economic trap, if I may call it that. Why do we say that? Because, colleagues, everyone says: the pensioners after the retirement date, if they do not work, do not participate in the growth of the insurance income. Yes, but they are involved in the growth of gross domestic product! Because consumption is one of the important elements of the growth of gross domestic product and when consumption is increasing the gross domestic product is increasing. Gross domestic product for itself indirectly affects the growth of average social income. That's economic logic. Hence the great drama of the supporters and opponents of this proposal. If we solve this case, if we unite that we can afford such a resource, I'm the first person to raise both hands. What the European Commission has been advising us all these years is that there should be a commitment of the pensions to what colleagues say to have financial stability. If we break financial stability, we will have no adequacy, colleagues! That's the big question. And one more thing! We say that the pensioners are under BGN 348. This is the poverty line for this year, were there 60%, how many were there, of all pensioners. Okay, what can we do for them? The system of social security is a system and I have said before from this tribune "Dal Kolio" took Kolyo, insurance contribution, balance between the contribution and national solidarity, because money comes from taxes, money comes from everyone else. If we find this fine balance, the fine setting, that means we've done our job. If national solidarity dominates, then there comes a moment when solidarity, the growing continuous solidarity, comes into direct clash with the sense of justice I repeat this again, I said it a few hours ago. Therefore, honourable Members, we must come up with another mechanism, let alone social security, because if we continue to solve all the problems of miners' poverty, of the security sector, of army and police, of whomever, with farmers, with the social security instruments we will make so that social security will have great difficulties, as it is at present. Because nine billion. Seven hundred million. lv. they're for pensions, but over 42% of them are taxes, the rest is insurance. Therefore, in order not to break this balance, we must be very careful. I know that Bulgarian pensioners suffer and you know, we all know. What can we do? Here's another mechanism that I allow myself to suggest here, from this high tribune. Colleagues, under BGN 348. We just said that there are about 60% of Bulgarian pensioners. If based on an income criterion, because there are people who have pensions below BGN 348. benefits from pensions, but they have properties if we do so on the basis of a property criterion we support these people with a special fund I have calculated them if everyone in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy made this account if all who are under BGN 348. We help them, that's 60 million. lv. a month, or 720 million. lv. per year. This is less than the money that is only for four months to recalculate one part of the pensioners. This is the reasoning that I have allowed myself to make in front of you. Thank you for your patience with which you have listened.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u205	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Are there any lines? I won't. I would like to ask if there are any other speeches because Minister Avramova is here waiting for an answer. Are there any other statements? That is, the speeches and the vote remain for the next day. Moving on to: RESPONSE TO THE MINISTER OF REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND THE BLAGOSTERY FIVE AVRAMOVATION OF A QUESTION WITH REGARD TO PROBLEMS IN THE WORK OF THE TOL SYSTEM. I ask the Quaestors to invite Minister Avramova to answer the question raised regarding problems in the work of the Tol system. Welcome to the stand, Minister Avramova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u206	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In connection with a request to give a little more information about the sale of wineries, I am here to tell you the last thing the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works performs. First, the Road Infrastructure Agency, acting in accordance with the Law, has stopped the sale of one-month-old vintages. The delay in the introduction of the Tol heavy goods vehicle system over 3.5 tonnes is based on a consensus reached with representatives of the carrier industry. The change in the Law will be seen today at second reading in the Committee on Regional Policy and I believe that by the end of the week the National Assembly will have the opportunity to adopt the Law at second reading. My expectations are by the 23rd, Tuesday, this law to be moved to the State Gazette and, in fact, on this date to be promulgated. We have a good dialogue with the industry. There have already been two consultative councils, we have reached consensus that we postpone the system in order to do real-time tests so that the industry can make its estimates on how much money it needs to finance the travel on the Republican Road Network, as well as the Ministry and the Road Infrastructure Agency to be able to make their estimates in relation to the need for funds to carry out major repairs and to build new roads on the Republican Road Network. My wish and my request to all of you, Members of Parliament, dear Mr. Svilenski, is that we do not create unnecessary tensions for a week in which the carrier industry is informed and knows that at his request we postpone the start of the tol system. So there's a period of one week in which you'll be buying weekly vintages. At the same time, those who have purchased monthly wineries with a delayed start will not have a problem.. they will be able to use these monthly wineries. I thank all those who are trying to accept the change in the Law, as well as all of you who support the idea of introducing the toll system as a fair way of charging vehicles when crossing the Republican road network. Our desire, and I know that it is yours, even the opposition, to have means for roads, to have funds for good road infrastructure. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-17.u207	Thank you. This was the answer of Minister Avramova. Honourable Members, we have concluded the meeting. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You have no mechanism to express your attitude because Minister Avramova was invited for an answer. That's her answer. We're done here. The next regular session is tomorrow, Thursday, at 9:00. We're adjourned.
