ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u1	Please, Members of the National Assembly, take your seats and proceed to registration. Please, registration mode. [[Noise and lines.]] Cancel the registration. There's no jurisdiction. Next attempt to register in 15 minutes. Discovered at 9:19 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u2	[[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. We continue with the next item of the National Assembly's Work Programme: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO OPEN MEDICAL FACTURE IN THE STRUCTURING OF UNIVERSITY Dr. Assel ZLATAROV Importer is the Council of Ministers on 18 April 2019. Before we start looking at the point, I'm going to make an announcement. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the dispatch of three soldiers from the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria with equipment and equipment for participation in an international sniper competition in Israel at the training centre of the Israeli Army for the period from 10 to 17 May 2019. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria the competent state authorities have been notified. The notification was received on 9 May 2019. No 903 09 22 and granted to the Defence Committee. For the opinion of the Health Committee on the Project of a Decision for the Opening of the Medical Faculty in Burgas you have the floor, dear Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u3	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal for admission in the plenary hall of Dr. Boyko Penkov "Deputy Minister of Health," and Mr. Petar Nikolov "Deputy Minister of Education."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u4	I put the procedural proposal to the vote. Vote 98 MPs: 97, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. Please invite the Deputy Ministers to the Chamber. Please continue, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u5	"COMMODITY" on Draft Decision for the Opening of the Medical Faculty in the Structure of the University of Prof. Dr. Asen Zlatarov (Bulgaria), No 902-03-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 April 2019. At its regular meeting, held on 9 May 2019, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a draft decision for the opening of a Medical Faculty in the structure of the University. Dr. Asen Zlatarov (Bulgaria), No 902-03-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 April 2019. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Boyko Penkov, Deputy Minister of Education and Science Mr. Petar Nikolov, Chairman of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency Professor Dr. Petya Kabakchieva, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health, patient organizations and others. The draft decision in question was presented by Mr. Petar Nikolov. The opening of the Medical Faculty in the structure of the University of Sofia Prof. Dr. Asen Zlatarov " "Burgas" is proposed by the Academic Council of the Higher School and based on a positive assessment by the National Agency for Evaluation and Accreditation Project. The new main unit is intended to train students in the speciality of the regulated professions "Medicina" and "Master" degree in the field of higher education. The training will be carried out in accordance with the Ordinance on the uniform state requirements for the acquisition of higher education in the specialities of Medical and Dental Medicine. The academic composition in the new unit will consist of 54 people, distributed in nine departments, which will ensure the fulfilment of the requirements of art. 26, para. 1 of the Law on Higher Education. For the conduct of the clinical practice of the students the University has provided for a contract with the University Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. The Medical Faculty will prepare doctors for the needs of the region and the country, for the system of emergency medical care, outpatient and hospital medical care, as well as for the needs of other structures of the national healthcare system. In a written statement to the attention of the members of the Commission, the Minister of Health expressed support for the Draft Decision. It is clear from the statistics presented that the total number of doctors in the country has increased in recent years, while in 2017 the insurance with doctors reached 42.7 per 10,000 people, with an average European indicator for 2017. 35.1 per 10,000 people. The regional disproportions of the insurance of doctors in the country in some areas are twice lower than in other areas. The insurance with doctors in the southeastern region of Bulgaria varies from 28.9 to 32.5 per 10,000 people, which is below the national average. In this connection, with the opening of the Medical Faculty at the University of Prof. Dr. Asen Zlatarov During the discussion the Chairman of the National Agency for Evaluation and Accreditation Professor Kabakchieva pointed out that the University of Prof. Dr. Asen Zlatarov In accordance with the provision of art. 9, para. 2, p. 1 of the Law on Higher Education The National Assembly with a decision opens branches and faculties in which training in specialties from regulated professions is carried out. On the basis of the discussion and the vote taken on the following results:....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Dr. Asen Zlatarov (Bulgaria), No 902-03-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 April 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u6	Thank you. Would you like to present the Project for a solution?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u7	Project! DECISION for the opening of a medical faculty in the structure of the University Prof. Dr. Asen Zlatarov The National Assembly on the basis of art. 9, para. 2, p. 1 of the Law on Higher Education HAS DECIDED He opened a Medical Faculty in the structure of the University of Prof. Dr. Asen Zlatarov.. Burgas, with the subject of activity preparation of specialists with higher education in the specialty of regulated professions..Medicina...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u8	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. For the presentation of the Report of the Committee on Education and Science you have the floor, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u9	♪ I can't believe on Draft Decision for the Opening of the Medical Faculty in the Structure of the University of Prof. Dr. Asen Zlatarov (Bulgaria), No 902-03-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 April 2019. At its regular meeting held on 24 April 2019, the Education and Science Committee discussed the above-mentioned project. The meeting was attended by Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science, and Angelina Lambreva, Director of the Department of Higher Education at the Ministry of Education and Science. On behalf of the importer The draft decision was presented by Minister Krasimir Valchev. The proposal for the opening of the Medical Faculty shall be submitted on the basis of art. 9, para. 3, p. Article 2 in conjunction with Article 2 9, para. 2, p. 1 of the Higher Education Act and on the basis of a positive assessment by the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency, according to Protocol No 3 of 7 February 2019 of a meeting of the Accreditation Board. The draft decision envisions the training of students in the speciality of regulated professions in the new main unit of education and qualification in the field of higher education 7. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. "Medicina." The academic staff in the unit will consist of 67 lecturers, distributed in nine departments, 70% of the lecture courses will be conducted by habilitated lecturers, ensuring compliance with the requirements of art. 26, para. 1 of the Law on Higher Education. The university has the necessary material and technical base. For conducting the clinical practice of students from the Faculty the University has planned to enter into contracts with the University Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. The discussion on the Draft Decision included MPs Milena Damyanova and Asya Peeva. Ms. Asya Peeva spoke in support of the draft decision for the opening of the Medical Faculty. She stressed that with the opening of the Medical Faculty in the structure of the University of Prof. Dr. Asen Zlatarov " "Burgas" will prepare doctors for the needs of the region for which there is a deficit of medical staff. In connection with the decision of the Rectors Council on a moratorium on the disclosure of new structures in the higher education system, Mrs. Milena Damyanova noted that this draft decision, as well as the draft decision for the opening of a Higher Military School named Minister Krasimir Valchev replied that in this connection there is a process of optimization of the number of students accepted for training in the different professional directions, but in terms of medical staff there is a demand on the labor market. He clarified that the creation of a map of the network of higher education structures was discussed to establish the limit of saturation in different professional directions. After the end of the discussion and the vote held with a unanimous result of 13 votes, the Committee on Education and Science proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision for the opening of a Medical Faculty in the structure of the University of Sofia. Dr. Asen Zlatarov (Bulgaria), No 902-03-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 April 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u10	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. Deputy Minister Penkov, will you take a stand before I open the debates? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u11	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to say that the Ministry of Health welcomes and supports this initiative of the University of Burgas, because we all know what regional disproportions there are regarding the intensity of medical personnel. It is very important for us to be able to ensure the career and academic development of young doctors in the region by creating a wonderful medical school in the region. I sincerely hope that this way we will attract even more people. You know what are the problems we have in finding personnel in the emergency department. For colleagues from CSM Burgas who work and study in the city itself, this profession will be even more attractive if they can complete their specialization in time and in time, and also in the presence of 54 people of academic staff who are trained and habilitated people who are ready to work with the children. I talked to colleagues who were at the accreditation committee, they said it was a wonderful place to study. I can say that we fully support the government's decision in this direction. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u12	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister. Dear Mrs. Vasileva, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today is a very important day to vote on the proposal for a decision on the establishment of a Medical Faculty in the structure of the University Prof. Dr. Asen Zlatarov. in Burgas. It is strongly supported by the Burgas public and significant not only for the city and the region, but also for the whole region. The opening of such a faculty in Burgas is an expression of the priority support for the development of education and access to high quality and highly specialized medical care. It is also determined by the specifics of the region of Burgas developed very dynamically in recent years. More than 5.8% of the country's population live in Burgas region and more than 2 million tourists live in the region every year during the active summer season. Thousands of Bulgarians from other parts of the country also work here. Internal labour migration, linked to the active season along the coast, is a challenge to all spheres, including health care. These and many other factors define the important and responsible place of healthcare in the region and raise the issue of the readiness of the health network for action, including in unforeseen situations. The structure of the healing network in the settlements on the Black Sea is consistent with the number of permanent population and potential of the medical establishments and cannot fully respond to the increased demand for medical services during the summer season. There is a shortage of medical staff, especially qualified specialists. The new faculty is part of the solution to this question. The establishment of the Faculty of Medicine will help young people from the Southeastern region to be able to study medicine close to their birthplaces, and this decentralization will help newly graduated doctors to practice and remain working in their city, to treat their loved ones, to build their professional and academic careers here. The need is there, but just as important is that Burgas is ready for the establishment of a Medical Faculty. The natural place for the development of medical education is Burgas State University. Dr. Asen Zlatarov, and a base for similar training.. The hospital with the largest state participation..UMBAL Burgas............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The university has a modern material base that is in line with state requirements for high quality training. With the support of the municipality is built a new corps with specialized halls and laboratories all necessary for modern training. The school has established traditions in the preparation of professionals in health care. Here and now, midwifes, nurses, rehab workers are being trained. The new faculty has a teaching staff. The credit of the local authorities and Mayor Dimitar Nikolov is enormous in helping to build the material and technical infrastructure, as well as in helping current and future teachers and their domestic construction in the city. We have the assurance that Burgas Municipality will be a faithful partner of the Faculty in the coming years. Dear colleagues, 10 years of effort precedes today. We, the MPs from GERB, support the proposal for the establishment of a Medical Faculty in the structure of the University. Dr. Asen Zlatarov, because we are convinced of the common benefit of this undertaking. It is in line with the policy of upgrade in the field of education and making it an exceptional priority. We thank the government for the steps taken to get to the vote today, which will benefit the entire Southeastern region, and for the efforts of all those who have led the process to this stage. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u14	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? You have the floor to speak, dear Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u15	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The Group of the United Patriarchs will also support unanimously, I hope, I am sure that this will be the case for a long-standing decision. Naturally, the reason is not only that one of the largest rural lobbies in the Forty-fourth National Assembly is from Burgas, including colleagues from GERB [[noise and lines]] but because this necessity is actually very old, it has to be covered. In addition to the arguments put forward by my dear fellow Member Mrs. Vasileva, there is another very serious argument. Due to the circumstances in recent decades, the Burgas region has become the hospital of two more districts - Sliven and Yambol. Those are the facts! There is a natural demand for medical services in terms of greater capacity, greater opportunities in Burgas region and in neighbouring areas, so that this contingent or this potential number of patients that has been served is significantly greater than the number of potential patients in the summer. Then they become about two million, but all this predestined that Burgas should become a serious medical center that cannot exist without the relevant faculty for preclinical medical activities. We are very pleased to support and admire this proposal for a solution. I hope that the other Members will also vote for............................................................................................. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u16	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. The facts are different, but I can't get into an argument with you from here. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. The draft decision was presented to you by Dr Daritkova. We will vote on it the way it was presented. Please vote. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. [[Applause.]] Honourable Members, we will continue with parliamentary control. We interrupt the work of the National Assembly until 11.00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u17	Colleagues, we're starting work. We move on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. There are no new requests for the period from 25 April to 9 May 2019, but we have written answers for service from: - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Elhan Kulkov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Polina Tsankova Hristova; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Elena Axieva. Before we start with the questions to the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva on the grounds of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question written by the MPs Stanislava Stoyanova, Claudia Gancheva and Stanislav Stoyanov. Due to the lack of respectable reasons of the MP Alexander Matsurev, the answers to two of his questions to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov are postponed. Due to the use of sick leave, the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov and the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to a prior commitment to the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov will not participate. We're moving on to Minister Zaharieva. A question from the MP Hristo Gazhev regarding compliance with the right of television broadcasting in Bulgarian for the newly recognized Bulgarian national minority in Albania. Dear Mr. Gajev, you have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u18	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs! The efforts for recognition of a Bulgarian minority in the Republic of Albania date back to the time between the two world wars, when Bulgarian diplomacy has been working hard to recognise one, but after the communist regime in Bulgaria the Bulgarians are left behind and all actions for recognition of a Bulgarian minority in Albania have been terminated. In recent years, many Bulgarian institutions, public figures and NGOs have worked hard to recognise the Bulgarian minority in Albania, including the European Parliament. Let's not forget that on 15 February 2017 in the Report of the European Parliament on Albania's progress, thanks to the Bulgarian MEPs Andrei Kovachev and Angel Dzhambazki, a text was inserted, namely calling on the country to recognise the Bulgarian minority. Of course, this issue has always been a major issue in your talks on a bilateral basis, as well as Prime Minister Borisov with Prime Minister Rama. All this resulted in the adoption of an amendment in the Law on the Protection of Minorities on 12 October 2017, with which Albania officially recognised the existence of a Bulgarian minority in the country, and ultimately our ethnic community received minority status alongside eight others, which is a truly indisputable success of the Bulgarian state. This amendment in the Albanian law provided certain rights for the Bulgarians in Albania, one of which is also the right of a television broadcast in Bulgarian. It started at the end of January this year. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: more than a year after the recognition of the Bulgarian minority in Albania, are the rights of the Bulgarians guaranteed, their TV block? How is its supply of materials going, including from the Bulgarian side, and what further steps has the Bulgarian state taken from now on to develop our relations with the Bulgarian minority with a view to accession or rather on the European road of Albania and the Western Balkans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u20	Dear Mr. Vice-President, Dear Mr. Gazhev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to thank you for this question, because this is an extremely up-to-date topic, as you have put in the exhibition and in your question, a topic on which has been working for many years by a wide range of politicians, public figures, European MPs extremely intensively in the last two years. Indeed, I am extremely grateful to the Albanian Parliament that it literally managed to include and recognise the Bulgarian minority in Albania at the last second. This is also one of the main foreign policy priorities of the Programme for Government Management of the Republic of Bulgaria in the period 2017 - 2021, namely a targeted policy for maintaining Bulgarian identity, language and culture in traditional and new Bulgarian communities abroad. However, the adoption of the Law on the Protection of National Minorities in Albania, as you yourself said, is the first step. The adoption of a number of regulations that will regulate the implementation of the Law and how the imposed rights of the Bulgarian minority will be implemented in practice. A key role in the process of supporting the realization of the rights of the Bulgarian minority in Albania has our embassy in Tirana and the Bulgarian ambassador. One of the main priorities in the work of our mission there is taking concrete action to guarantee the rights of the new law, one of which is the right of national minorities to inform their mother tongues through information and cultural programmes. The efforts of Bulgarian diplomacy, as you mentioned, were successful at the beginning of this year. In January for the first time in Albanian television broadcast came news in Bulgarian. This marked the beginning of a regular broadcast intended for the Bulgarian community in Albania. The transmission in Bulgarian is broadcast every day from 18.30 am local time, thus really the bloc broadcasts of minorities in Albania began with the broadcast of news in Bulgarian, i.e. all minorities. Thanks to the co-ordinating efforts of our Embassy in Tirana, Albanian TV and Radio and BNT signed an Agreement governing the copyright of BNT broadcasts, a package of videos for Bulgaria, selected specifically for the transmission of Bulgarian language in Albania. Here is the point that we were able to negotiate with the Albanian partners in the program to include a module "I am studying Bulgarian" and a joint production of BNT and the Ministry of Education and Science. The second channel of Albanian TV is being reorganized and the Bulgarian Embassy is in constant contact with the management of television in order to ensure access of our community in Albania to modern Bulgarian language and culture. Another important project proposed by the embassy, on which our diplomats are actively working in Tirana, is the secondment of teachers from Bulgaria to the districts with a compact Bulgarian minority. Sometimes it is easy to forget that these people have been cut off, as you mentioned in your question, for generations of living Bulgarian language and culture and for them the Cyrillic is almost unknown. It is therefore vital that we teach the young generation of Bulgarian literary language and alphabet. Last year, children from Gora district received donations from students in history from Sofia University to over 500 books, textbooks, educational literature, maps and a new computer. We also received a donation from first to fourth grade textbooks. A few days ago, BNT donated Bulgarian books and teaching aids as part of their campaign. At the same time, all these donations would be unnecessary if we did not put in the necessary efforts to acquire and improve the knowledge of modern Bulgarian language. That's why the embassy's efforts to provide teachers are so important. They do not know the Cyrillic, but they speak quite a good Bulgarian language, as a matter of fact. I cannot fail to mention another important priority with which we support not only the development of Albania, but also the economic well-being of the Bulgarian minority and the regions in which they live. For two years we worked actively to implement the Project for the construction of asphalt road between the town of Bilisht and the village of Dorek, Korcha district, inhabited by Bulgarians. After many difficulties, as this is the biggest project that we have so far financed under the Development Programme of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria, on 2 April 2019 the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted a decision approving this project and its financing. This is the biggest project I've ever mentioned. The first phase is worth 1 million. $125,000. lv. The major importance of the project is based on the need of the local population for accessible infrastructure, as at the moment there is no de facto road. This is one of the reasons why they leave these regions, which prevents the concentration of the Bulgarian community and thus preserve the Bulgarian identity. This will be a second project in Albania, implemented under the Bulgarian development aid, following the one in Balsh City, which is supposed to be the medieval Bulgarian town of Glavinitsa, known for the chronicle inscription from the time of Tsar Boris I and dedicated to the baptism of the Bulgarians. Today we have completed the project, the infrastructure of the street, bearing the name of Prince Boris, tells the residents and guests about the city, about the friendly relations between the two countries that have been preserved for centuries. These two projects are just the beginning. An integral part of the mission's work will continue to be funding projects in Albania with funds on the development aid line, which is among the priorities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. To conclude, I would like to assure you that we, both the Ministry and the embassy, are clearly aware of the responsibility and that the recognition of the minority is only the beginning. We have a consistent policy, not a campaign, with all the efforts to preserve the language and to improve the material and economic situation in the regions populated in Albania, as a priority with a Bulgarian minority. I would also like to thank the companies there, because they are indeed also extremely active, and of course, you, because without your relations with the Albanian Parliament, I think we would not have achieved this success.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u21	Thank you for your comprehensive answer, Mrs. Zaharieva. A line? You have the floor, dear Mr. Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, thank you very much for your reply. By the way, you mentioned a wonderful news about the Bulgarian community in Albania, namely the financing of this road, as it has been waiting for years. If we also have to use connectivity, eventually one of the main efforts, the main policies for building well-being in the region is to help people stay there and to connect these areas with both the central parts of Albania and Bulgaria, and the transport itself to become much easier between the different areas. Apart from that, the power supply with educational materials. They really speak beautiful Bulgarian, as if they lived their whole lives in Bulgaria, but the opportunity to learn and write in writing is also very important to develop their skills in the end. Here I would also like to point out two more things, namely the possibility of Bulgarian televisions to broadcast their content on private networks, the opportunity to obtain licenses and permissions to access the market in Albania. In addition to national media emissions in Albania, the Bulgarian minority and Albanian citizens in general would have the opportunity to observe quality full content from the Bulgarian media. However, all this is very important, but the Bulgarian institutions are also nice to engage everyone to preserve and develop the rights and quality of life of the Bulgarians in Albania, so that they can also have their representation on the local level. To be able to solve their own problems. In view of the upcoming local elections in Albania, it would be very good to have ethnic Bulgarians to be candidates in Albania and to be elected, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. A hole? No douche. That was the question to the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform. Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva, for participating. National Representative Sergey Kichikov will ask a question to Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, about the rehabilitation of the Republican road III-843 Velingrad, Sarnitsa, Smolyan district. You have the floor, Mr. Kichikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u24	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! The Republican Road III-843 Velingrad "Sarnitsa," Smolyan district, is extremely important because it is a link between Smolyan district and Pazardzhik district for the town of Devin It is also the shortest link for travelers from southern Bulgaria to the SPA capital city of Velingrad. The road section is in a miserable state, as no major repairs have been carried out in the coming years, resulting in a highly deformed and impenetrable road under normal conditions. In some areas there is absolutely no asphalt flooring. The basis of the road is destroyed, as a result of which the passage of cars, even light vehicles, is extremely difficult, and in places and impossible. In view of the severe weather conditions during the winter season, there are cases where the road falls and the passage of cars, mostly heavy ones and with larger gauges as buses, is completely impossible. In such situations, there are drivers who undertake passage through the precinct, but at risk for the health and life of passengers. The problem with the poor condition of the section has been put in front of all responsible institutions, but at present no measures have been taken to improve the passage of the route. Every day in the administration of the municipality of Sarnitsa there are signals from citizens and companies that the journey on the above-mentioned section is extremely difficult. Sarnitsa in recent years has successfully developed as a tourist destination and during the active summer season the town and Dospat Dam are visited by thousands of tourists. The poor condition of the district is alarming for all residents of the municipality that the development of tourism will be seriously affected if urgent measures are not taken to repair and reconstruction of the road. In this regard, my question to you, Madam Minister, is: is there any funds provided in the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works in this year 2019 for the implementation of basic rehabilitation and repair of the above-mentioned road? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Kichikov. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Kichikov! Third-class road III-843 Velingrad Srnitsa, the border region of Smolyan on the territory of Pazardzhik district is 55.8 km long and the road is located entirely in a high-mountain area. In 2018 a complete repair of road sections with a total length of about 7 km between the town of Sarnitsa and the border with the region of Smolyan from km 47+920 to km 53+893 and from km 54+892 to km 55+800 are currently in excellent condition. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and repair of buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings and $545,000. BGN 211. with VAT. The unrepaired stretch between Velingrad and Sarnitsa is about 47 km long. This is the section to which your question is addressed. What the Road Infrastructure Agency and the regional road management are doing at the moment is patching up the regular section along the line of current maintenance. In 2018, such renovations were also carried out on the pavement, with the Agency investing about 72 thousand. lv. There were also four sets of gabiones made to strengthen the road body at km 23. With a view to securing the movement until the end of June this year, a patching of the sections that have been compromised along the route is planned. We note that the actions taken under the current maintenance are definitely insufficient to ensure long-term and safe operation of the road. We are also reading the loading of the road in connection with the tourist flow that is on its way to Dospat Dam. It is necessary to design a technical project for the complete repair of the road section, in which to set up also activities in the restoration of the road body, as well as the construction of support walls in a section about 1.2 km long after Velingrad from km 4 to km 14+100, affected by the flood in 2005. Unfortunately, what I can answer at this time is that the Agency's budget for 2019 is limited, as it has been in previous years, which prevents us from planning a complete repair of the road section as a major repair of this segment, which is in poor technical condition. In order to improve the technical condition of this section of Republican Road III-843 Velingrad, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Road Infrastructure Agency will do everything possible to include this section in the Agency's investment programme, to be designed and to provide funds for its rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u27	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor, dear Mr. Kichikov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, unfortunately, and this time I am not satisfied with the answer, as the road is extremely broken and practically dangerous traffic is on it. You said that by the end of June, there was supposed to be a patching up. On a previous question about the road village Nova Mahala, you had said that by the end of April you are also predicting at least a patching. At present nothing has happened there, and in this connection the residents of Batak, the villages Nova mahala and Fotinovo have organized, and have also notified the relevant institutions, on 31 May, 1, 4 and 9 June 2019 for two hours in the order of 15 to 17 hours, will close the road section. I suppose the same will happen to the residents of the municipality of Sarnitsa, as the active tourist season is coming and people are extremely worried that the airport and the tourist traffic in the municipality will decrease. Unfortunately, I'm not happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Kichikov. No douche. This was the question to Mrs. Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The next question to Mr. Mladen Marinov, Minister of Interior, is from the National Representative Dimitar Boychev Petrov and the National Representative Diana Savateva on preparation for the summer season in the sea municipalities and ensuring adequate security measures for tourists, local population and business. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u30	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! In fact, it can be said that season 2019 has started because the first tourists arrive on our Black Sea coast in April. In May with every day they become more and more, but in fact the active season starts in the second half of June. Every year, at this time, we Members of the National Assembly of Burgas ask an identical question because the successful implementation of the season is directly related to the security measures. In summer on the Black Sea coast hundreds of thousands of tourists, thousands of Bulgarians from inside the country who actually work there. In the same direction the criminal contingent is moving and you, Mr. Minister, know it very well. In fact, you know very well the situation along the coast during the summer, because you have been Secretary General in recent seasons and you know how important partnership with local authorities is to ensure reliable security and effective security measures. I can say that this is your first ministerial summer and that is why, together with my colleague Boychev, we want to learn from you on the basis of the analyses made by the previous seasons, about the successful models that have been applied, including whether there are unsuccessful models. How will you proceed this summer, what will be the security measures to have a successful season in 2019, calm for both business and tourists who have chosen to fly in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u32	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Sawateva, Mr. Petrov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! In relation to the preparation for the summer season in the sea municipalities is provided the security of public order, tourists, local population and business. The Ministry of Interior established the following organization. First, carrying out joint patrol-post work with foreign public order police officers during the active summer tourist season 2019. You know that since the summer of 2010. The Ministry of Interior has been carrying out one of the best practices for police cooperation within the European Union through joint patrols in tourist complexes with police officers from Member States of the European Union whose citizens visit our Black Sea coast to carry out public order activities in resort complexes. We are actively cooperating with Romania, the Czech Republic, the Republic of Poland and the Federal Republic of Germany. The aim of the cooperation is to increase the security of tourists staying in our summer resorts by carrying out joint patrol-posting activities during the active tourist season. The working languages in the implementation of the activities are Bulgarian and English. Foreign police officers perform their duties in their country's regulated uniforms, respecting the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria. Secondly, measures are planned to combat crime, protect public order, traffic safety and ensure fire safety in resort complexes and resorts in the country during the summer and winter tourist season of 2019 The plan includes a complex of events, the most important of which are: holding workshops to plan joint actions with the mayors of municipalities and representatives of local public and security committees and to combat the anti-social manifestations of minors; with representatives of consultative councils on tourism issues from the municipality concerned; with representatives of branch travel associations, tour operators or travel agents and persons offering accommodation such as hotels, motels, tourist settlements, villas, apartments, huts and others. Particular attention shall be paid to questions about ensuring fire safety, security organisation and crossing mode, increasing the number of technical means of video surveillance, as well as negotiating the use of their employees in working with foreign nationals. Another part of the complex with events is: planning joint checks on pre-established schedules in tourist sites with the territorial structures of the NRA, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, the Consumer Protection Commission, the Customs Agency, the ministries of economy, finance, health care, regional development and public works and other competent institutions. Next, checks are at stake for banking and non-banking financial institutions, including currency exchange offices, cash premises and large-sum locations. Last but not least, conducting information campaigns on the activities of the Ministry of Interior for Public Order Protection, Traffic Safety, Countering Crime and Fire Safety in Resort Complexes, recommendations to tourists for preventive measures for personal vigilance and preventing criminal offences and facilitating the activities of accepting signals of crimes committed by producing type forms translated into German, French, English and Russian. Thirdly, the secondment of state officials and police bodies from other structures of the Ministry of Interior to help district directorates in Burgas, Varna and Dobrich as places where there is the greatest concentration. On the basis of an analysis of the security environment by ODVR Burgas, Varna and Dobrich, the need for the secondment of additional civil servants and police authorities to the public order in their resort complexes is requested, which amount to 947 employees, of which 781 for the Regional Directorate of Burgas, 126 for the Regional Directorate of Varna, and 40 for the Regional Directorate of Dobrich. In addition, I will draw the following conclusions. The past summer tourist season 2018 is assessed as successful, without serious incidents and with a relatively smaller number of attacks against the person and property of foreign tourists compared to 2017. The regular meetings held at the end of each tourist season between the management of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Tourism and representatives of the diplomatic missions concerned in Bulgaria contribute to the timely cessation of problems and identification of measures for their resolution. Despite the trend for an annual increase, the number of tourists from the authorities of the Ministry of Interior has been established the necessary organisation to protect their lives, health and property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u33	Thank you for your answer, dear Minister. Mrs. Sawateva, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, thank you for systematizing the measures that have been implemented both in previous years and now, because it is important that people be informed. I would say that this information from the parliamentary tribune is part of the information campaign that you referred to as one of the priorities of the Ministry of Interior, especially that in recent years it has been running in different languages. You mentioned that since 2010, one of the successful practices has been to be posted to our resorts and foreign police officers, as it makes easier contact with tourists from the countries concerned. I would like to ask if this year will increase the number of destinations from which such police officers will be sent? I would like to highlight two things you said in your reply. Road safety measures and measures related to the work of the Change bureaus are extremely important, as both are related to the course of a calm and productive summer season. We do not need to have news from our resorts related to heavy crashes. The more measures there is, the greater the chance of the roads to the resorts and the resorts themselves being quiet. And the scams from the Changing Offices, thank God they stayed in the past seasons, and in recent years this really isn't the most common crime. And two more sentences. We know that resorts and places visited by tourists are among the most risky in terms of counterterrorism measures. They are observed by malicious nuts. What are the preventive and permanent measures taken on the Bulgarian Black Sea coast, as people should be informed? We must not lose our vigilance when it comes to the danger of terrorist attacks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to complete your answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Sawateva, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With regard to increasing the destinations from which we use joint patrols, I would say that at this stage it is the ones I reported in the previous exhibition, and in some countries the number of employees to be posted is increased, in view of the analysis for the past year and the number of tourists from this destination. This is a very well-functioning practice because it increases the confidence of foreign tourists in Bulgaria and the dialogue with them is much better, which excludes conflicts and language barriers when working out each signal. With regard to countering terrorism, we are constantly developing our technical and expertise. At present, I can assure you that, in terms of risk places, airports, bus stations, large hotels with tourists from certain destinations, we have an enhanced police presence. For the summer tourist season, we also post employees of SOBT who are available in these risk areas for response to the relevant crises. You know that the Specialized Counterterrorist Unit and the Bomb Terrorism Response Unit are employees who carry out on-the-spot checks and disarm suspicious packages and homemade explosive devices. I can assure you that we have received additional equipment for these employees, which within a few days will be distributed and delivered to work on the ground, which will increase our response opportunities for different signals. At the same time, training is currently being carried out in the Specialized Counterterrorist Task Force of units that we have created in the Regional Directorates for such a call for a rapid response in specific situations so that we can reduce the professional response time of each signal, of any threat until the introduction of heavier specialised structures into action. That's what we're doing right now. We have very good coordination and interaction with the operators of the two airports in Varna and Burgas, which is extremely important. Finally, I can say that there are posted staff of the Directorate of Gendarmerie who, in these years after the terrorist act, proved to be extremely necessary and can make the tourists who come to be calm about their stay on the territory of our complexes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u37	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There are no more questions for you in the framework of today's control. Thank you for your participation. Dear MPs, Minister Krasimir Valchev has asked to be waited due to a delay for reasons beyond his control. At 12:00 we will continue the meeting with questions to Minister Valchev. I'm interrupting the meeting for 20 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u38	Dear MPs, we continue parliamentary control with the questions to the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Krasimir Valchev. Welcome, Mr. Valchev! The first question to you is from the National Representative Dimitar Boychev. I do not see the National Representative Dimitar Boychev. Let's get to the point from Professor Stanislav Stanilov. Mr. Stanilov, you have a question for Minister Valchev about the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency. Mr. Minister, this is the second question for you until Mr. Boychev comes. Here you are, Mr. Stanilov, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u39	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Since the beginning of your term of office you have been conducting a system of measures on the reform to improve the quality of higher education in the Republic of Bulgaria and increase its ability to respond successfully to the challenges of modern time. So far, they have met support from various institutions such as the National Assembly, employers' organizations and trade unions in the higher education sector. On this background, it is noticed that there is no synchronization between your efforts and the activities of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency. The Bulgarian public finds it difficult to accept the fact that two thirds of the Bulgarian universities have received an assessment higher than 9 in the 10-point evaluation system. Doubt in the objectivity of these assessments is expressed even by representatives of the Rectors Council at a meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Education and Science. At the same time, the checks made by the Ministry of Education and Science for scientific activities in higher education institutions show that again two thirds of them report zero scientific activity. The immediate conclusion of the comparison of these two facts shows that the National Assessment and Accreditation Agency has not met at least the requirement introduced as early as 2011. ............................................... 69, para. 2 of the Law on Higher Education, that the criterion is the most relative. The National Assembly and the Ministry also receive signals about other criteria that are formally applied. The National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency is an independent agency subordinate to the Prime Minister. Among the academic community was created the feeling that the Minister of Education and Science did not have tools to protect before the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency the higher education reform conducted by the Ministry. This impression is spread among the members of the Accreditation Board and of the Standing Committees who do not feel confident enough to apply the law's strict and uncompromising requirements and the crematory evaluation system. You are well aware that the Ministry of Education and Science has the opportunity to use a number of measures, such as an inspection by the Inspectorate of the Council of Ministers or a requirement to include the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency in the Court of Auditors' annual inspection plan. The Minister of Education and Science may also challenge before the court the assessments of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency which contradict the objective data on the activities of the university concerned. In this regard, I ask you, Minister, to answer: Are you ready to apply the existing control tools for the activities of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency? To start a meeting with the Accreditation Board, to inform its members about the increased requirements of the Ministry of Education and Science regarding the quality of higher education in the Republic of Bulgaria? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u40	Thank you, Mr. Professor. Mr. Minister, come in, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Stanilov, thank you for your question. We need this conversation, we've actually been having it for two years with you and with your participation. I'm going back and forth and I'm answering you straight: yes, I'm ready to use the tools, starting with a conversation with the Accreditation Board. Maybe there are reasons, I don't understand the reasons for their insecurity, but they have to have full professional confidence. I don't have to give them confidence. The members of the Accreditation Board and the Standing Committees must have the professional responsibility to follow this particular policy. We rely on accreditation as the most reliable comprehensive assessment of academic indicators. When we talk about quality of education, we talk very often in the context and that we want to improve it, that we want to differentiate funding depending on quality. On the one hand, we have a market assessment of who is realized, on the other hand, we have an academic assessment. Academic evaluation is indicators of study and scientific activity. To the most extent all these indicators are summarised in the academic evaluation. For me, too, it is very disturbing what you said that the average estimate in programme accreditations is 9 in a decimal system. In earlier years, the system was five-pointed. It was made ten-fold by you, the MPs, in fact you voted in a previous National Assembly to become ten-fold in the hope, with the desire then to have a greater distinction in the assessments, but such a distinction not only is not observed, there is inflation of the assessments, devaluation. If 12 years ago the average score was 83. 84% of the maximum, six years ago it was 88%, now it is 92.. 93% of the maximum, which is definitely disturbing, all the more so against the background of what you said that the indicators of scientific activity make up the most part. Purely mathematically I do not know, since they are the greatest weight, how so do not give the distinction, given that we have very large differences in indicators of scientific activity. We can clearly highlight three groups of schools: one with relatively high scores, the other group, I wouldn't say, and average, low scores, and a third group with zero results, which is purely mathematical, which means that there is no way to score above 9. Of course, when we talk about all this, I have to approach with a dose of precautionary professional, legitimate caution, as the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency is independent of the Ministry of Education and Science. That is the idea, that is the status of accreditation agencies in all countries, so they are also assessed as agencies in the International Association for their degree of independence, but we should always emphasise that they should not be independent as much and only from the Ministry as from the academic community. There are bigger problems there, as accreditation itself is carried out by representatives of the academic community and this sometimes leads to conflicts of interest, although we have officially declared lack of them. This can be expressed both with a more favorable and more critical attitude on the part of the assessment staff. This question has also been addressed in the Law on Higher Education. There we have staked a greater degree of objective criteria, emphasising which are the main criteria, which are the secondary criteria, but the law does not in itself solve this problem. If you do not go through the Rules of Procedure, through the criteria under which it is assessed, do they not become numerical, because at the moment I do not know if you know, there are several cases, that some have received scores of 9, i.e. the Agency, on the one hand, is the subject of criticism that it was perhaps more rigorously appreciated, on the other side, and these criticisms are precisely because it allowed this inflation. I'm gonna finish this, and I'm gonna assure you once more that I'm gonna set up a meeting and use the tools. In this case, not so much as the main instrument to be examined by the Inspectorate of the Council of Ministers, but to evaluate the procedures of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency, something that it needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u42	Thank you for your in-depth response, Mr. Minister. Professor Stanilov, you have the opportunity to reply. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u43	That question, Minister, I might not have asked. I could have come with the text.. we have been working excellently for two years.. I could have come and had an objective conversation about the whole situation because it is related to the new Law on Higher Education, which the Ministry is working on and the Commission. But I did it to get out in front of the spotlight, to see the people who monitor the control that we're dealing with this thing. There's no way we can fix this if we don't put up the science problem. You said, I don't remember if 30%, but about 30% are, which have no scientific activity at all, and these people shouldn't be accredited at all. These VUMs just shouldn't be accredited. I don't know if you know, I met with the chairwoman of the accreditation committee, who makes an excellent impression. I made sure she understood the problems. For example, I found with amazement that individual committees do not keep protocols. We have no documentation from the... who voted how, who said what, what were the speeches. It is formally written down the conflicts that these voted for.... those voted against.................................... and so on and so on. This has to be stopped! I've had the feeling for nearly 15 years since I've been a MP that it's just that this committee has become a place where people get paid to agree to everything they've been told. This must be put to an end! And because you are, in my opinion, the most energetic minister in terms of reforms, although you are making a lot of compromises, but this is a question of how to tell you about another policy and another discussion, we can now change things. As with great efforts and against great criticism, we have changed them into the Law on the academic staff, for which their representatives are constantly cursing me and calling me ugly words, but this does not matter at all, as we have been able to pass something on this plagiarism, which will greatly improve things, as many other things we have managed to do, we also have to do this thing to deal with this accreditation committee. There is no other way to do this, and we need to convince our fellow Members in this House to support us in this regard. Otherwise, higher education institutions in Bulgaria will grow in number and level, level of education will fall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u44	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. Mr. Minister, would you care to comment? No. You're going in the same direction. Thanks again to the professor. We return to the issue from the National Representative Dimitar Boychev on the implementation of the model of training in the High School of Computer Programming and Innovation in Burgas. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Before I ask my question, I would like to thank both on behalf of my colleagues and on behalf of the mayor of Burgas for the support we receive in the development of the educational infrastructure and in particular today we voted for the opening of the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Burgas. Dr. Asen Zlatarov, which is very important. I think the support we receive is seen as the support and understanding of the Ministry in every area. Thank you. My question is related to another school, which is new for Burgas. In the autumn of 2018 in Burgas opened the newest and most modern educational establishment in the high school of computer programming and innovation. It is a technologically oriented vocational school that will train IT specialists with high added value. The school prepares specialists in the professional field of computer sciences, profession of................................................................................................... High school is innovative for Bulgaria not only as a base and as applied methods and forms of training, but also as an approach to the students themselves in view of their future professional realization. She cooperates with some of the largest companies in the field of information technology, as well as places emphasis on real practice and business contacts. At the beginning of this year started a project for a new specialized electronic platform that will connect the school with the business. As a final result, each student will be able to find in one place up-to-date information about professional internships, requirements and notice of vacancies in Burgas. At the same time, entrepreneurs will see where they are preparing, opportunities for contact with potential future employees, as well as any useful information on the topic of the regional labour market. In this regard, I would like to ask you the following question: is the Ministry of Education a model of education applied at the High School of Computer Programming and Innovation in other cities and institutions? What are the opportunities for closer engagement of business with the educational system in Bulgaria in order to implement practices during the training of students and their subsequent professional realization? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u46	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u47	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, thank you for your question. Maybe I'll start by congratulating the municipality of Burgas. Recently, we awarded a prize to the city of Burgas as a city of knowledge because the municipality not only implements innovative policies with a view to the future, but these are policies that define the direction to which we should focus. For several years the municipality has had a program for computer modeling of children since the first grade. From this school year we introduced the subject of computer modeling from the third grade. We will finance activities under projects from Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" in the first grade. We increase reception in the specialities, profiles and professions related to information technology. We started the IT career training program. We realize the program "Training for an IT career" "The program in which we provide the opportunity for students from other professional directions and profiles to study for the acquisition of professional qualification "Accomplished programmer." It's from IX to XI class. All things aimed at expanding the base of specialists with in-depth skills in programming and coding. We have great confidence, though, when we talk about the future, we always talk about a great condition. We do not know exactly how the world will change, and today's students will be in the labour market 2050. 2060. What we have confidence about is that most likely in the next 10 to 20 years the world will undergo large-scale transformations due to the entry of machines based on artificial intelligence. This makes digital skills even more mandatory, but not only the user's digital skills, but the digital skills of creators, of people who will be able to operate with more complex machines. This is what we often talk about, visiting three professional schools of agriculture. Combiners won't be as many drivers as people who will program and steer the machines. If autonomous cars enter after more than 10 years, we need more time for tests, then there are no complex situations in the combines, and they will probably enter much sooner and they are already entering. This, more or less, will happen in all professions. Whether we are going to successfully go through this period of large-scale transformations depends on today's education system how many people will prepare with in-depth IT skills. In this sense, the initiative of Burgas Municipality is commendable. It has to happen in a lot more cities. At the risk of publishing in advance, because on 21 May 2019 we have a meeting in Varna, probably in Varna will make such a decision, whether it will be a municipal or public school, because there we will probably try to position it, to connect it with the Technical University of Varna. You know that there are two schools: at the Technical University Sofia, the School of Electronic Systems, and the Professional High School in Pravets, whose status we will propose to be governed by an amendment and an addition to the Law on Higher Education, which we have prepared and will soon propose for public discussion, something for which we made a commitment and promised last year. We will also enable this successful model to be used on other schools in other cities based on an agreement between higher schools and schools. What I can think of is that we had a conversation with the Mathematical Schools. We cannot create such high schools probably within a short period of time in all cities, on the one hand. On the other hand, we have enough schools. Mathematical high schools are the ones who will add to their profiles a thorough study of information technology, either as a professional qualification, or as a profile. In both cases, it is both good as a professional qualification and as a profile, but it is more desirable as a professional qualification. Even with the adoption this year we have such proposals in mathematical high schools, which have more lecturers, have the potential to unite the business around them. We've had this conversation with them. Mathematical High Schools we have in almost all district cities and in several large neo-district centers, so we will also step on their capacity and initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u48	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Boychev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. I see that you are very seriously developing the entry of these specialties into the educational system and already in the first grade, which is really very important because the world is developing and this is the future. I am impressed with something else in this high school, which is in Burgas, that actually maybe this is a good example in the direction of dual education, which is also one of the priorities. Because really, both in teaching and in the relationship that happened with business, really business entered the whole process and life of high school, which is very good and which makes a good impression on me. It can be taken as a model because business through different platforms, with participation in different forums that are organized, entered real and children are very interested respectively and their attention is much more focused on the specialty they study and practical realization subsequently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u50	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. You have an opportunity for a doppelganger. Will you take an attitude?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u51	Thank you. For what you said, there is no doubt that in order to implement successful models, they must only happen in partnership and interaction with business. We have good interaction with representative organisations in the sector. As a result of this partnership, we have also drawn up the Programme "Training for an IT career" and what I neglected to mention, as of this year and the Programme "IT" the business teaches. Many people from IT business would like to enter school, perhaps not at the full norm, as full teachers. One such interaction is mandatory and this program will finance this.Learning of teachers, including on the spot in IT companies, entering people from IT business in school and visiting IT companies by students, which is another example of good partnership, otherwise every school should be in constant interaction with business. The participation of business representatives in the Public Council was regulated. Clusters are built in some sectors and subsectors. Businesses are increasingly involved every year in defining a local and regional reception plan. This year, together, we have created a mechanism, and we have also created a policy in terms of restructuring the reception. Yes, we talk a lot about the IT sector, on the other hand, humanitarian or other specialties say: "Yes, but we are important too. " - Indeed, it is important that we prepare the children for a harmonious mix of competences. Those who are going to program will have to have civil and humanitarian skills. I feel obliged to make this clarification so as not to leave the impression that we are only talking about digital skills. These skills can only be complete if they are part of this mix, which we call key competences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u52	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Emil Tonchev. It refers to the material provision of the educational process in the high school "Nikola Stoychev" town of Razlog. It concerns the high school building fund and the delivery of a school bus. You have the opportunity to develop the question, Mr. Tonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The Razlog Professional High School "Nikola Stoychev" is a preferred and authoritative state institution, which recently celebrated its 50th anniversary. The school prepares wanted personnel in the labour market for the well-developed tourism industry in the region and the country as well as in the field of information technology. Currently in high school are trained 275 students in four directions: production of culinary products and drinks, catering, dual form of training, organization of hotels, economic information. Over the years, the building fund of the institution is a major body, boarding school and gymnasium, depreciation. The repairs carried out with own funds are in limited volume. For their successful professional realization, meeting the needs of the business, students conduct their production practices in a number of four- and five-star hotels in the municipalities of Razlog and Bansko. Lack of own transport makes it very difficult for students to move. Minister, in this regard it is my question to you: does the Ministry entrusted to you provide funds for the renovation of a building fund with the implementation of energy efficiency measures and is there a possibility for the delivery of a school bus? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u54	Thank you, Mr. Tonchev. Come in for an answer, Mr. Minister. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u55	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tonchev, I also had the opportunity to visit the Professional High School in Razlog. There are over 300 educational institutions at the Ministry of Education. In total, we have over 2,300 schools, nearly 2,000 kindergartens. We are trying to help many of the municipalities in their efforts to modernise the material and technical base. This is not always possible, as funds, as you know, are always limited and needs are numerous. Only during this program period 140 professional Gymnasiums will be upgraded under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth". Some of them in 40 have already been completed. We have accordingly set ourselves as a policy those who are not included in the Programme because we are talking about over 350 professional high schools, although 140 will be modernised, this is still between 35 and 40% of the total number of professional high schools, to invest priority in others. There is no doubt that the specialties in high school are in line with the profile of the local economy and such modernization of the material and technical base is appropriate. I take this opportunity to say that we are already having conversations and we have started the work for the next programming period 2021 - 2027 in which there will also be an Operational Programme for Education and Science. A period in which funds for educational infrastructure will probably be increased. We are talking about the fact that to a much greater extent the funds must be aimed at improving the basis for educational practical training, for the offices. If we look at the last two periods that the vast majority of the funds were aimed at energy efficiency, but this was a challenge for the sanitization, cost reduction, then in the next period the funds will be more aimed at changing the training methods. There's a good practical base at Razlog High School. We have already allocated funds of just over 200,000 to carry out some of the activities they have asked us to do. As far as buses are concerned, yes, we buy buses periodically. The main part of them, almost all of them, are headed to the middle schools, but although less often, we also provide professional schools. Thanks to the Preschool and School Education Act, which was adopted by the previous National Assembly, we are already financing the transportation of all students until school education is completed. It used to be only 16 years old. Last year we made a program, you actually approved a proposed change by the Council of Ministers, this right to expand and not to the nearest school, but also to a professional high school, the nearest professional high school, because we aim to stimulate students and their inclusion in a professional high school. Many of the professional high schools have regional significance. They cover children from settlements to which it is possible to travel daily. Accordingly, they need buses. We have this in mind and will assist them, but, again, I say, according to the possibilities, because at one time we can not all help. We're engaged and I've approved a bus delivery report to the Professional High School that they'll receive once it's delivered. That's the kind of place we don't have right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u56	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Tonchev, you have the opportunity to take an attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u57	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I'm quite satisfied with him. Society has no more important mission than the upbringing and training of our children. I would like to thank you and the entire government that education is a priority and an important part of the implementation of this activity is investment in educational infrastructure. The improved and healthy environment in which our students are trained and where our teachers work is an integral part of good modern education. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u58	Thank you, Mr. Tonchev. Mr. Secretary, come in. You're not gonna get any attitude. Then let's hear the question from the MP Alexander Matsurev. Mr. Matsurev, your question concerns the National Program "Motivated Teachers." Here you are, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, my question is about the National Program "Motivated Teachers." On 27 March 2019 the government approved 17 national education development programmes in 2019 which will provide additional funding for policies and measures for equal access to quality education. For the implementation of the programmes in the state budget 76 million were provided. lv. One of them is the National Program "Motivated Teachers." In this regard, my question to you is: when is the National Program expected to start, what activities and objectives are set in it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u60	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. Here you are, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u61	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Matsurev, thank you for your question. The policy of investing in motivating teachers is one of the most important. Teacher is the most important factor in the educational system. I was just at the awards awards teacher of the year and what I said there will probably repeat here what is happening today in the classroom, this is tomorrow's society. The teacher in the classroom is the main actor that we tend to forget sometimes. We have a challenge that is related to the age structure. It is also to the pedagogical but also to all other professions. For the next ten, even fifteen years, the number of people who will retire will be 50% greater than the young people who will enter the labour market. This challenges all public systems. We can't afford to be without teachers. Moreover, we must have teachers in all disciplines, in all schools and kindergartens, even in the smallest and remotest. One more thing. We need to make sure that better students are involved in pedagogical education and pedagogical profession. The best educational systems are those in which a large part of the best students are involved in the pedagogical profession, so teachers are important. That is why we have taken the positive budgetary and political decision to increase wages. This is an investment in both the current and future generation of teachers. This year, for the first time in many years, teachers' salaries have exceeded the national average. For next year and for pó next year are also foreseen in the medium-term budget forecast adopted by the Council of Ministers, additional funds of 360 million. lv. for the implementation of this commitment. We already have the first positive signals of increasing the tendency to participate in pedagogical education, in the pedagogical profession, but this is not enough, especially with regard to certain disciplines that we have bet in the Programme. There are several reasons to start this program, talking specifically about the module with which we will finance additional training for people who have acquired higher education for the acquisition of pedagogical competence. The reason we started this module is that people with higher education would still be involved as teachers in the system of education in physics and mathematics. These are most often engineers or others who have completed education with a deeper study of mathematics and physics, and these are the two disciplines in which we have the greatest problem. On the other hand, the young people who study in higher schools are units, and hundreds of thousands are those who will retire in physics are hundreds, in mathematics there are thousands of those who will retire. On the other hand, in the faculty of mathematics and physics we see that 25 people are likely to acquire a pedagogical qualification. That's exactly what we're going to finance. The tendency is lower when you're 18 years old. A person knows that the world offers multiple opportunities, but when he's 25, 30, 35 years old he's more likely to get involved. We will use this particular tendency to increase the number of teachers. The other module is for creating a conforming corps of the best prepared, best selected and best trained teachers to work in the most problematic schools. In every school it is difficult to work, every school has its challenges, but in those with concentration of children from vulnerable groups it is the most difficult to work, especially in the so-called separate neighborhoods, which we often call ghettos. There teachers must be the strongest, the most prepared, the most supported by all the other institutions, as we have the biggest problem there and the challenge is the greatest. Teachers for additional remuneration must agree to work in these schools. The third module is for obtaining additional qualifications from teachers who already have one. This is necessary for small schools, especially where full norm cannot be made and disciplines must be aligned, this is necessary in terms of providing support. For example, in a school in a small remote village, a resource teacher can not always be appointed to a full state. Resource support is implemented by the regional centre, but it cannot be implemented effectively during the five days. While if there is a teacher, trained and in special pedagogy, he will be able to constantly work with the child he needs. The programme's budget is a million and seven hundred. They're starting the modules now. All information is available on the website of the Ministry of Education and Science, but also through regional governments we send additional information so as not to miss it. If necessary, we are also prepared to increase the funds under the Programme. This allows us the decision of the Council of Ministers if there are enough candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u62	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for your in-depth answer to this extremely important question, but the line is still the one of the MP Matsurev who will take note. Here's a line for you, Mr. Matsurev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, I thank you for all that you do in the sector................................ to you and to the government. Indeed, what you have decided about the Programme "Motivated Teachers" will contribute to the stimulus of all those willing who want to start working this profession. Once again, admire and wish you luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-10.u64	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. Mr. Secretary, come in. You're not gonna get any attitude. Dear MPs, this was the last question to Minister Valchev. Thank you, Minister, for being able to respond to today's parliamentary control, as well as the answers you have given. This concludes the weekly program of the National Assembly for the period 8 "May 10, 2019." The next regular Parliament meeting will take place on 15 May 2019. 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
