ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] One message before we start working: Honourable Members, on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the adoption of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child in the National Assembly, a Millennium Capsule will be placed. It will include objects and symbols bearing messages of good to young Bulgarians in 2030. The ceremony will be at 10:00 p.m. in the east couloir. All MPs are invited to leave their messages to future generations. We're continuing with our work program. Point one for today is: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO GENERALATE STATE MONEARY PRACTICES TO THE BULGARIAN STATE AND THE NATION. Report of the Committee on Culture and Media. Dear Mr. Rashidov, who will present the report? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Rumen Dimitrov to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u3	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission made in this House. Please, voting mode. 140 MPs voted: 135, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please invite Deputy Minister Dimitrov to the hall. Please continue with the presentation of the report, dear Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u4	♪ I can't believe on Draft Decision on the award of state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian State and the nation, No 902-03-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 November 2019. At a regular meeting held on 14 November 2019, the Culture and Media Committee discussed a draft decision to award state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation, No 902-03-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 November 2019. In the meeting of the Ministry of Culture participated: Rumen Dimitrov The draft decision was presented by Mr. Rumen Dimitrov. The draft decision shall be proposed on the basis of art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on the Award of Persons for Special Merit to the Bulgarian State and the Nation. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u5	For a little while, dear Mr. Rashidov. Colleagues, it's extremely noisy in this room, please be quiet! It's hard to work.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u6	It regulates the state cash prizes for special merit to be life-saving, periodic and one-off. By Decision No 646 of 4 November 2019 the Council of Ministers proposed to the National Assembly to grant lifelong state monetary awards for special services to the Bulgarian state and nation for outstanding achievements in the overall contribution to culture: Professor Anatoli Dobrev Krastev The funds necessary for the payment of the lifelong state monetary prizes for special merit shall be paid through the budget of the Ministry of Culture. As a result of the vote held unanimously, the Committee on Culture and Media proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision to award state monetary awards for special favors to the Bulgarian State and the nation, No 902-03-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 November 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u7	Thank you. Mr. Rashidov, would you like to present the draft decision?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u8	Of course, Mr. Chairman. Project! DECISION granting state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on the Award of Individuals for Special Merit to the Bulgarian State and the Nation HAS DECIDED 1. Grants state monetary awards lifelong for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation: a) in size 700 BGN monthly on: Anatoli Dobrev Krastev Angel Raymond Wagenstein. Georgi Dimitrov Dyulgerov Ivan Petkov Stykov Ivan Tsanev Ivanov Lili Ivanova Petrova Hristo Kostadinov Ganev for their exceptional achievements and for their overall contribution to the field of culture; b) in a size of 500 BGN monthly to Andrej Petkov Drenikov for his outstanding achievements and for his overall contribution to the field of culture. 2. Instructs the Minister for Culture to implement the decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u9	Thank you. This was the draft decision to award state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation. You have the floor to speak. I can't see. I put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. 135 MPs voted: 134, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We continue with the second point of today: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO APPROVE THE ACTION OF THE TEMPORARY COMMISSION TO EXPERIENCE THE FACTS AND ASSISTANCES RELATED TO THE INTERPRETATION OF THE A proposal has been made to the President of the National Assembly: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 88, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, we are submitting a draft decision to extend the duration of the Temporary Committee for the Study of the facts and circumstances related to the interruption of the broadcast of the program " Horizon" of the Bulgarian National Radio, as well as the allegations of political pressure on the management and journalists of the Bulgarian National Radio with reasons for it. I'll introduce you to: Project! DECISION extending the period of validity of the Temporary Committee for the Study of the facts and circumstances related to the interruption of the broadcast of the program "Programme" of the Bulgarian National Radio, as well as the allegations of political pressure on the management and journalists of the Bulgarian National Radio The National Assembly on the basis of art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Continues the period of validity of the Temporary Committee for the Study of the facts and circumstances related to the interruption of the broadcast of the program "Programme" of the Bulgarian National Radio, as well as the allegations of political pressure on the management and journalists from the Bulgarian National Radio until 3 February 2020. You have the floor to speak. None I shall put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. They voted 129 MPs: 127, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW ON MARKS AND THE GEOGRAPHIC REPRESENTATIVES. Dear Mrs. Saveklieva, please proceed with the presentation of the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Art. 16................................................................................................. There is a proposal of the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Dimitar Danchev and Stanislav Vladimirov: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16, p. 1 is amended as [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u11	Excuse me. Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u12	"1." its name and address. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev. In art.16 t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." its name or address. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 16 as in t. 3 words in the quality of the words shall be replaced by the words in the form of the words as the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words in the form of the words in the form of the words in the form of the words in the form
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u13	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs. They voted 121 MPs: 46, against 39, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Christian Mitev. They voted 113 MPs: 32, against 15, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 16 with the proposal for replacement made by the Commission. Vote 110 MPs: 100 against 1, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u14	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 17, as in para. 1 the words "the European Economic Area' shall be deleted. The Commission notes that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that there is a need for State aid to be compatible with the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 18. ? 19???????? 19?????????????????????????????????????????? The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u15	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put the following texts to the vote: the text of the importer for art. 17 with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission and the text of the importer for Articles 18 and 19, supported by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: 88, none, abstention 19. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u16	..................................................................................................... The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 20: Inclusion of a mark in reference materials Art. 20. Where the inclusion of a mark in dictionaries, encyclopaedias or other reference materials gives the impression that the mark represents the generic name of the goods or services for which it is registered, the publisher shall, upon the request of the proprietor, be obliged, at electronic publications immediately and at the latest in the next edition of the relevant material, to indicate that it is a registered trade mark.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u17	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 20 by importer. 110 MPs voted: 103, none against abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u18	"Indemnity for use of the brand........................................................................................ OJ L 268, The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 21. The term of effect of the registration shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u19	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put two texts to the vote: the text of the importer for art. 21 and the text of the importer for art. 22, supported by the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: 96, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u20	"Department III" "Mark" as property. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section III. "Receiving the right to the mark................................................................................................ OJ L The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 23: "Receiving the right to a trade mark Art. 23. (1) The right to a trade mark may be transferred irrespective of the transfer of the commercial undertaking to all or part of the goods or services for which it is registered. (2) In the case of joint possession, the right to a trade mark shall be transferred by written consent to all co-owners, unless otherwise agreed between them in writing. (3) The transfer shall be entered in the State Register of Trade Marks at the request of one of the parties to which evidence of the transfer and of a state fee paid shall apply. (4) The transfer contract shall not apply where the request for entry of the transfer has been signed by both parties with an explicit indication of the names and quality of the persons signing it. (5) The transfer shall have effect on third parties from the date of its entry into the State Register of Trades.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u21	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I will put two texts to the vote: the text of the importer on the name of Section III supported by the importer and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 23 by importer. 99 MPs voted: 94, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u22	"Licensionary contract" art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 24, as in para. 5 and 6 after the words The law on the mark as a subject of security. Twenty-five. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 25 and proposes to create para. 6: The claim on a trade mark may also be subject to security under the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u23	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put two texts to the vote: the text of the importer for art. 24 with the proposal to add by the Commission and the text of the importer for art. 25 with the proposal to add para. 6 with a text according to the Commission report. Vote 109 MPs: 96 against 1, abstention 12. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u24	The law on a trade mark as subject to enforcement................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 26. The law on the mark as subject to a special bet............................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 27, such as: 1. In para. 2 the words.................................................................................................. 2. In para. 3 words in the Patent Office are deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u25	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put two texts to the vote: the text of the importer for art. 26, supported by the Commission and the text of the importer for art. 27 with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: 97, none, abstentioned 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u26	Include the right to the mark at the table of insolvency............................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 28. The application as an object of The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 29: The application as an object of ownership Art. 29. The provisions of art. 23 "28" shall also apply to applications for registration of trade marks.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u27	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put two texts to the vote: the text of the importer for art. 28, supported by the Commission and the version proposed by the Commission for art. 29 by importer. Vote 98 MPs: 87, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u28	"Change or change in the entry......................................................................................... It's 30. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 30: "Change or change in the entry Art. 30. In the State Register of Trade Marks shall be recorded cancellation or change according to the entered circumstance under art. 24 - 29 at the request of a person of legal interest, to which evidence is applied that the said fact has ceased or changes have taken place.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u29	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for art. 30 by importer. Vote 95 MPs: 88, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u30	"Manufacture for the examination of requests for entry' art. 31.............................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 31, as in para. 2 the word "inadequacies" is replaced by "inregularities" and the word "instructions" is replaced by "instructions" and the word "instructions" is replaced by "instructions."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u31	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 31, supported in principle by the Commission by the proposal for a replacement made by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 85, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u32	"Section IV" Suspension of registration, revocation and deletion of registration. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section IV and shall replace the word "withdrawal'. "Recruitment of registration" art. Please tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking any other medicines. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 32, as in para. 2 Finally, the words are added, accompanied by evidence.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u33	Statements? I won't. I will put two texts to the vote: the text of the importer on the name of Section IV with the proposal for replacement made by the Commission and the text of the importer for art. 32 with the Commission's proposal to add. Vote 95 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u34	"Recruitment of registration of trade marks containing registered geographical The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 33, as at the beginning of the sentence before the word
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u35	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 33 with the proposal for a supplement made by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 78, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u36	? Denial of law??? art. Under art. 34 has a proposal of the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Dimitar Danchev and Stanislav Vladimirov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 34: ♪ Denial of law ♪ Art. 34. (1) The holder may waive his right to a mark for all or part of the goods or services for which it is registered by written declaration to the Patent Office. (2) The refusal shall have effect from its entry in the State Register of Marks. (3) Where the refusal of a trade mark right is preceded by a request for revocation or deletion of its registration, it shall be considered after the entry into force of the decision on the request, unless the person making the application for revocation or deletion provides written consent to enter the refusal. (4) Where a licence contract is entered, the waiver shall be entered after the proprietor has provided proof that he has notified the licensee of his intention to waive the right to the mark. The entry shall be made after the expiry of a period of one month from the submission of the proof. (5) The refusal of one or more of the co-owners of the right to a trade mark shall not result in the termination of the registration with respect to the other co-owners.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u37	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 34 by importer. Vote 87 MPs: 81, without exception, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u38	"Unsubstantiated registration" art. Thirty-five. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 35, as in the title and everywhere in the text, the word "recruitment" is replaced by "recruitment."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u39	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 35 with the proposal for replacement made by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 80, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u40	"Deleting of registration............................................................................... Thirty-six. Under art. 36 has a proposal of the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Dimitar Danchev and Stanislav Vladimirov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 36 para. 7 is The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 36 para. the following point The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 36: ? Deleting registration Art. 36. (1) The registration of a mark shall be deleted where it has been carried out in violation of the requirements of art. 2 and 11. (2) Where the mark is registered in violation of: Art. 1. 11, para. 1, t. 2, 3 or 4, the registration shall not be deleted if the holder demonstrates that the trade mark has acquired distinctiveness for the goods or services for which it is registered prior to the date of submission of the request for deletion as a result of use; Art. 2. 11, para. 1, t. 12, the registration shall not be deleted if the holder is an entered user of the geographical indication contained therein previously registered under that law; Art. 3. 11, para. 1, t. 12, 13 and 14, the registration shall not be deleted if the holder restricts the list of goods for which the trade mark is registered to those meeting the specification of those registered under European Union legislation or international agreements to which the European Union is a party, geographical indications, traditional specialities guaranteed and traditional terms for wines. (3) The registration of a mark shall also be deleted where: 1. The mark shall be registered in violation of Article 1. 12; 2. the use of the mark may be prohibited on the basis of an earlier right of a third party entitled to protection under another law, in particular: (a) right to name and portrait; (b) copyright; (c) the right of a selector to name a variety or breed; (d) the right to industrial property. (4) The requests under para. 1 can be submitted by any person. (5) Requests under para. 3 may be submitted by the following persons: 1. 1 of the persons referred to in art. 52, para. 1 who have not exercised their right to submit an opposition or their opposition is rejected as inadmissible; 2 times ct. 2 by the proprietor of the earlier law. (6) Registration of a trade mark may also be removed by the Patent Office where it is registered in violation of art. 11. The procedure for the formation, conduct and closure of the proceedings for the official deletion of the registration of a trade mark shall be determined by the ordinance laid down in art. 69, para. 4. (7) When the request is under para. 3, p. 1 in relation to art. 12, para. 4, the actual use of the non-registered trade mark before the date of filing of the application for registration or the date of priority of the later trade mark must have continued until the submission of the request. (8) In the cases under para. 3, p. 1 where applicable, the registration shall not be deleted if the earlier mark has not been actually used. (9) In the cases under para. 3, p. 1 in relation to art. 12, para. 1, t. Art. 2, Art. 12, para. Art. 3, 4 and 7 and art. 36, para. 3, p. 2 Registration shall not be deleted if consent is given to the person with the earlier mark in the deletion proceedings, with the earlier right respectively. (10) In the cases referred to in para. 3, p. 1 in relation to art. 12, para. The registration shall not be deleted where: 1. the agent or representative shall justify its actions, or 2. the application shall be transferred to the actual owner at his request. (11) Where the grounds for deletion apply to part of the goods or services, the registration shall be deleted only for those goods or services.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u41	Statements? Mr. Mitev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The opposition, respectively the deletion referred to in para. 7 of this provision, filed on the basis of an earlier unregistered mark, is one of the most discussed materials among the professionals in the field of Patent Law. The fact is that almost seven years after the adoption of this norm and in the current law the Patent Office has a diverse, I would say, controversial practice on this issue. There is no uniform view as to whether, in this case, it is a commercial or nominal use of the sign prior to the submission of the opposition mark, and these are essential elements of the norm which, in the light of legal certainty, should be examined and applied unambiguously. The adoption by analogy of European practice is also inappropriate, as the Regulation of the European Parliament of the Council of 14 June 2017 on the European Union trade mark does not contain an equivalent norm. It is because of the fact that in para. Article 7 36 shall not be taken into account that the proprietor of a registered trade mark has a claim to suspend the infringement and, even more so, an opportunity for the court to admit and impose provisional measures, a prohibition on the use of the infringement mark by which, in the new requirement to prevent the filing of a request for deletion, I propose that this provision be dismissed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u43	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Dimitar Danchev and Stanislav Vladimirov. Vote 88 MPs: 28 against 6, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Christian Mitev. 90 MPs voted: 15 against none, 75 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 36 by importer. Vote 89 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u44	supplies of the right of the holder. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 37, as in para. 4 is amended as follows: The proprietor of an earlier trade mark shall not be entitled to oppose the use of a later European Union trade mark if the later trade mark would not be declared invalid under art. Art. 60, par. 1, 3 or 4, art. Art. 61, par. 1 or 2 or art. 64, par. 2 of Regulation (EU) 2017/1001.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u45	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 37 with the amendments proposed by the Commission for para. 4. Vote 84 MPs: 68, none, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u46	Legal consequences of the revocation and deletion of the registration............................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 38, as in para. 3 is finally added for registration and in the title and everywhere in the text the word "repair" is replaced by "repair."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u47	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 38 with the proposals for supplement and substitutions made by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 75, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u48	"Section V - Collective and Certificate Marks." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section V. ....................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 39.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u49	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Section V and the text of the importer as art. 39.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u50	They voted 86 MPs: 72, none, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u51	??? 40????????????????????????????????????????????? The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 40, as in para. 4 the words "Sections I and IV" shall be replaced by "Sections I and IV of this Chapter" and in para. 5 after the word "Rules" shall be added by para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u52	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 40, supported by the Commission with the relevant changes to the text. 84 MPs voted: 72, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u53	"Special provisions'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 41: "Special provisions' Art. 41. (1) The applicant shall, respectively, the holder of a collective or certification mark present in the Patent Office the rules of use and any changes thereto. Those changes shall have effect on third parties from their entry in the State Register of Trade Marks. (2) In the cases of international registration of a collective or certification mark, the rules for use under para. 1 shall be submitted in translation. (3) The registration of a collective or certification mark may be revoked except under the conditions of art. 35 and when the owner has authorised or tolerated use which is contrary to the rules of use. (4) For use within the meaning of art. 21 of the collective and certification mark shall be considered to be used by any person entitled to it. (5) A collective or certification mark whose registration has been revoked or terminated shall constitute an obstacle to the registration of an identical or similar trade mark for identical or similar goods or services in the name of another person within three years of the publication of the revocation or termination. (6) The Patent Office shall provide access to the rules for the use of collective and certification marks through the State Register of Trade Marks.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u54	I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 41 on the Commission report. Vote 92 MPs: 76, none, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. My fellow Members, I propose that we interrupt the meeting by 11:00 when parliamentary control will begin. I invite you to the National Assembly lobby for placing the Millennium Capsule on the occasion of 30 years of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Here you go. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u55	Colleagues, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 15 November 2019 to 21 November 2019: A question has been received from the MP Cornelia Ninova, Manol Genov, Atanas Kostadinov and a group of MPs at Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, on the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to prevent the danger of water regime in certain settlements and the need to invest in the infrastructure in the water sector in order to improve the quality of the service offered to consumers and the financial instruments provided for this. The reply should be made in plenary on 29 November 2019. Written responses were received from: - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on a question of the National Representative Diana Savateva; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to two questions from the National Representative Anna Slavova; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov of the National Representative Lalo Kirilov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov. We're continuing with parliamentary control. Boiko Borisov will be the first to respond to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. He'll answer a question from the MP... [[Replications from the MPs Cornelia Ninova and Elena Pesheva.]] Do you have a statement? Here you go. Which one is it because Mrs. Axieva has a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u56	It's a young man's way.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u57	All right, here you go, Mrs. Axieva. Declaration on behalf of...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u58	Pesheva!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u59	Here you are, Mrs. Pesheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u60	Declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodolyptics. Honourable President, Prime Minister, colleagues! I am using the case that the Prime Minister is among us to make the declaration of the Parliamentary Group to him as well. Mr. Prime Minister, I am very pleased that you are here to hear this declaration, which is rather the call of women to parliament and the government. I would remind you that for two months we have been working on a package of bills that we have called Mother and child. It supports parenting, family and children. The Bulgarian electoral in this term did not put us in the role of governors, but of opposition, but nevertheless we cannot stand by and watch the nation melt. Unfortunately, your deputy prime minister from NFSB has not taken any measures in this direction for three years. That is why we have launched the initiative - a road map of children's happiness - through which we will offer modern management policies for the protection and well-being of our children. As you can see, this topic is a priority for us. I want to assure everyone that we are working with great desire and enthusiasm on these projects not only because we are mothers, but responsible politicians and mostly patriots. We are yet to talk about these projects, but today I am taking the floor on a specific occasion, again related to the situation of the children. It is provoked by your announcement that the government gives 40 leva. Christmas allowance for all Bulgarian pensioners. Although this is extremely insufficient money for our fathers and mothers, we support you in this step, but on behalf of the parliamentary group of You will show that Christmas is a holiday on which the state must take care of its youngest citizens. We are sure that the ladies in the government, as well as women in the government, will support us in this call. You said yourself that the state is in excellent financial condition, and we assume that you will have no problem ordering yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u61	Thank you, dear Mrs. Pesheva. The second declaration is on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u62	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In recent weeks we have had several scandals and worries: a scandal with the way the elections are held; with the water regime in a number of cities; problems in the health system; tensions around the decision on hospital sheets; corruption scandals do not stop from 288 guest houses only 23 turn out to be fine; it will be that those who have provided for two pensions will receive less than one. All of this raises concerns and raises questions. The first one is for government. One crisis is suppressed by another. The responsibility of the sun, of the rain, of the others, of the evils of the opposition who want to break the state is transferred. Crisises are not solved, they are swept away, and that deepens them. I want to talk about each and every one of them with facts because of you mostly, Prime Minister. The water crisis. Yesterday your ministers told us that nearly 320 thousand Bulgarians are in distress in a water regime. Their behavior is weirder, which speaks a lot about your management. Yesterday the minister said, I'll quote, so we don't have to explain later who should buy earphones. That was his arrogant line, so I'm quoting the transcript from yesterday. He said: "I will give summary information regarding the water crisis in Pernik Municipality, and yesterday I heard from the media. "Not only in Pernik Municipality, but also in other areas of the country where we currently have a broken water supply regime. Mr. Prime Minister, your ministers understand from the media that 320 thousand Bulgarians are in distress! Second quote. You've decided to fire the head of the water department, Pernik. Okay, that's your decision. The ministers informed us that the persons carrying out technical operation of the dams and facilities, I quote: "Every day, ten days and a month have informed the ministries, provided references and balances to the corresponding amount of water in the dam. They also warned in writing in April. The same thing they did in August. Your ministers and the government have obviously been idle during this time and have ignored these facts. It is even worse that yesterday a minister pronounced the following sentence, a minister from GERB, for a governor from GERB, said: I was slightly surprised that yesterday the governor did not know that the rights granted for the management of the dam are in her patrimonium, but this is another topic. No, no, that's not another topic. This is the theme of government management, the theme of ladybugs, the theme of where people's money is from the increased cost of water. The Minister of Regional Development, who is in charge of this, is on leave and does not find it necessary to interrupt it despite these 320 thousand people in distress. The governor didn't know what he was talking about, didn't know he was in charge. I would remind you that when I became the leak in the NRA, then the director of the NRA said that he had made the hardest decision not to stop his vacation despite the crisis in the NRA. Prime Minister, are you the prime minister of the state or the manager of a summer camp for vacations and holidays from ladybugs in the administration? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u63	How did you guys go on vacation for three months?!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u64	Second health crisis. [[Noise and lines.]] In health care, the deaths in recent weeks have shown once again that the health system is in collapse. No matter how much money you pour in there until we change the model of health care, the result will be this. You said it yourself yesterday, "We constantly give money, and the result is blackened people and parents. " - But there too, incompetence and unwillingness to change the system leads to this result. Again, the question is: where is the money of the health insurance people? Can you provide for yourself all your life and when you have to heal, die on the roads of Bulgaria? The hospital paper crisis. The inability to deal with abuses and fake hospital sheets has led you to reach out to basic labour rights of people who have also paid their insurance all their lives. Now that they're sick, they can't get their compensation. And here's the question: where is the money of those people who paid for themselves? [[Noise and lines.]] Fourth, the pension crisis. It will turn out that those providing for two pensions will receive less than one, but worse, there is no money in the Silver Fund. It was supposed to be 10 billion in 2019 and there were three. Where's the money for the Silver Fund?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u65	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u66	I'll answer you: all this money has flown into someone's pockets. Here is the example of the last week: from 288 guest houses on your check-in From 288..23! What about the others? Thefts and corruption during the management of GERB! [[Noise and lines.]] From the Bulgarian Football Union with 2 million of the state budget ordered uniforms in Afghanistan in a phantom company! In the disorderly area, two million of the state budget?! So the conclusion: whole systems fall apart for two reasons. You are incompetent to manage, incompetent to control the processes, and corruption is your emblem. [[GERB lines.]] I would also like to say a few words to the Prime Minister. How have you reacted for 10 years? Play tango two forwards, one backwards. That's how it was with the hospital last week. You're gonna take them out, then you saw tension. No, you're not gonna take them out. That was the case with the grave cases of health care. I don't want to abuse them. I don't want to suspend directors, as if that would solve the problem. In two or three weeks, you'll return them quietly when the pressure is gone. In the morning, it's another night. That's not how you run a state. Back and forth. You fire quickly to suppress the tension, but the problems remain and deepen. The next ladybug goes back to the new crisis and resigns again, and the same thing. More than the same. So 10 years of tango of the prime minister, 10 years of breakdown of the state's systems. You cannot escape your personal responsibility with resignations and transfer of the sun, bad opposition and other reasons simply because you have been ruling for 10 years. All the mistakes of the previous ones had time to correct them. Self-preservation, the sense of impunity, the self-esteem that you demonstrate yesterday was described in Europe, so: Bulgaria, together with Romania and Croatia, is among the poor member states of the European Union. Austria is one of the richer countries. This is why it is interesting to compare two photographs that show the complete gap in spending government money when it comes to politicians - Austrian and Bulgarian, who have come to the Congress of the European People's Party in Zagreb, writes the Zagreb newspaper. That's where they write it, dear colleagues. The first picture shows young Sebastian Kurtz traveling in the economical class of general airlines.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u67	He's not a chancellor, he's like you! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u68	The second: There is an opportunity to see the arrival of Bulgarian Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, who decided to come to Zagreb with the state bird, capable of transporting more than 150 passengers.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u69	No, 80!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u70	This is a plane bearing the national symbols of the Republic of Bulgaria. The state machine with the state symbols travels to a party event of the European People's Party. I leave the conclusions to the viewers, the listeners and the Bulgarian people. Ours are: you boast that you increase the minimum pension to 250 BGN. at a poverty threshold of BGN 360, that is, you say to these people: you will not be able to live! And you're treating this like a big asset. You're bragging about giving 40 leva. The seniors for Christmas. How many such supplements for how many pensioners does this flight cost on government expenses for a party event? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Did you hear that social workers are going to protest because they don't have running water in the premises and because their salary is BGN 500 and because they buy their own tickets to the city transport to get to their customers? Did you hear that? And against the background of all this, this mooring reaction here is absolutely inadequate to real life in the country. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The real picture for us is a breakdown of health care...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u71	Finish up, Mrs. Ninova. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u72	...of the pension and social system; ten years of incompetence and frustration now to resolve matters; continuing theft with self-preservation and arrogance of power.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u73	Get it over with, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u74	I'm done, last sentence. Mr. Prime Minister, no resignations along the downstream chain can change these facts and cancel the responsibility of the first. You like the language of the people, to speak freely. The people's language said, "Fish stinks from the head!" [[The President turns off the microphones. People's representative Cornelia Ninova continues to speak with microphones off. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova, thank you. Time's up. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, we're continuing with parliamentary control. Asking Prime Minister Boyko Borisov by MP Cornelia Ninova about a national security policy related to the country's accession to Schengen. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u76	You didn't hear my last sentence, which was that responsibility. [[GERB noise and lines]] on the first one is worn with resignation. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] So my question is, first of all, honourable Members, that it is from September 13th... two and a half months. I know what Mr. Borisov will say that he came here once and I wasn't there. Yeah, I got sick once. [[GERB's reply: "Only once! "]] But that's two and a half months later. However, the issue is up-to-date because it is dictated by a speech by the Prime Minister about Bulgaria's entry into Schengen. Dear colleagues, you know that this is a national priority for all of us. We wrote it in the programme for the European Presidency..........................................that Bulgaria should enter Schengen. To this end, many different political and party governments have worked because it is uniting and important for Bulgaria and the citizens of Bulgaria, but also for Europe for the future of Europe. But on 3 September 2019 in Germany surprisingly, without Parliament's decision, that it canceled its Schengen decision, without such a decision by the Council of Ministers, which are the institutional authorities in the country, the prime minister of his chapter states the following: "I do not know at the moment whether it is profitable for Bulgaria to enter Schengen. Even if I am in opposition, I will not accept entry into Schengen. What are we gonna lose from this? This is the prime minister's assessment of what Schengen is. Europe's assessment is: the functioning of this common space brings significant economic benefits to Europe. According to the assessment, the possible closure of internal borders would bring costs of between 100 billion euros and 230 billion euros in ten years and would prevent travel across a border of about 1 million. And 700,000. Souls. This is Europe's assessment. We do not need Schengen, very important, we will not show our cards. And now my question is, what made you say those words? Who authorized you? After Mr. Borisov returned, there was tension in Bulgaria, there was a public reaction and on September 12, listen to what he said in one speech. First: I have not said that we are giving up on Schengen. "The second sentence: "We want to be in Schengen. " Third: "We have been in Schengen for a long time with everything we do. " - Fourth: "Someday we will still enter Schengen. " - Do you understand what Bulgaria will do according to the Prime Minister? [[GERB line: "Yes! "]] In one speech, four different intentions, despite the decisions of Parliament and the Council of Ministers. So my question is: Prime Minister, what is the Bulgarian government's opinion on the future of Bulgaria in Schengen and the future of Europe in the common Schengen area?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u77	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Prime Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ninova, first of all, I take this opportunity to congratulate you on the last presentation of the local elections. [[Applause from GERB]] Another good performance. I think democracy has very clearly defined and in the elections people are assessing who should manage them and who should not, so I cannot accept your assessments. It's not one, it's not two, it's not three, it's not five, it's not ten times. So I'm interested in the assessment that people gave me, not you. Sebastian Kurtz is currently not at all, he is not the Chancellor of Austria. Germany's Chancellor was on a government plane, Greece's prime minister was on a government plane, and, unfortunately, we were going to beat ourselves up with this Falcon and was only freed "Airbus." But let me remind you, this absolutely unnecessary then of the state plane, which is worth nearly 100 million. lv. Two such government were brought in, and with a lot of pain we brought one back, and this one stayed. Since you ask me such a question: how much does it cost President Radev, for example, to go to China with him, for how many salaries or pensions? [[Applause from GERB.]] And that's why these planes were bought by your party, isn't it? For this! And all countries in Europe do so with one or two exceptions. It saves time, travels delegations, works. I'm not saying why he was traveling, just to show you how petty you are. And my people can come up with a declaration of the trades at your time, which 80 million we now have to pay back. In addition, I am glad that you very carefully observe where I go and what I say. These words you are asking me about, because I can answer you with one sentence: everything that was needed to be done for Schengen has been done and all the institutions in Europe have said that Bulgaria should be in Schengen. It is the merit of both your governments and ours the same has been done in these years. And all the European Commission and Parliament have spoken on this topic. I was a special guest in the Bundestag, where our friends from the political families in Germany were asking questions about how we guard the border, wanting to be such a good example everywhere. Special guest! Finally, they say: we are very supportive of you for Schengen, which very pissed me off, because who, wherever and as it came out of some tribune, is starting to say that he is supporting us for Schengen. But we've met all the criteria, why do you support us? And I got mad at them and said, "It's been a long time since we've been in Schengen. We are guarding the border beautifully compared to our neighbours who are in Schengen. Stop chattering about your support for Schengen. We've met all the criteria. And now you're grasping at words and repeating them. And the plane isn't a hundred and fifty-seat, it's 80-seat, it was ordered back then by a low-cost company to take some commissions, as well as the land trades. I guess that's your brand. And when you stick labels like that, consider the truth. You're talking about hospital papers. We at coalition councils and our colleagues are discussing all kinds of problems that we need to solve. Why are you lying to people about being imported or imported or talking like a postfactum already made a decision on the first day of the hospital? That's not true! There is no such proposal and there will be no proposal! Today it was your mayor from Pernik with me at 9:00 p.m. 2 million and 700,000 for the settlers today, and you're talking about 300,000. In Pleven and Lovech the mayors introduced their regime when the drought is indisputable. You see all over the country what the state of the dams is. They set up a regime and won the election. In Pernik, they played tricky and lost the election. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And we're helping them in the same way. So, please, when you make insults and attacks, know that no less are prepared in this area. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u79	Thank you, Prime Minister. Two supplementary questions, Mrs. Nino, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u80	We kind of messed up the questioning with the declaration, but that's the way it is. [[GERB's noise and lines]] Mr. Prime Minister, you cannot challenge my right to ask you for your resignation as a government, and yours, because I do not speak here in personal quality, I speak on behalf of a million Bulgarians who have supported the BSP for Bulgaria and it is here with 80 MPs. [[GERB's noise and lines]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u81	Colleagues, please be quiet! Please to both questions, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u82	Do not take away these one million Bulgarians the right to have an opinion other than yours and ask for your resignation. Secondly, no one is questioning your right to travel on a public plane. That's why these planes were bought, the Head of State, you should travel, but at public visits, and not at party events of GERB in the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u83	It's state!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u84	It's party!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u85	It's state-of-the-art!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u86	Congress of the European People's Party was a state visit to Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u87	Both.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u88	So travel when you're on a public visit...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u89	The questions, Mrs. Ninova, time is running out!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u90	...but do not use people's money for your party needs in GERB and EPP. [[GERB's noise and lines]] As far as the replacements are concerned. Ma, come in, Mr. Borisov, we'll help you with whatever you can to solve all the abuses.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u91	Mrs. Ninova, I'm asking both questions, your time is running out! [[GERB's noise and lines]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u92	Mrs. Karayancheva, Mr. Borisov didn't answer my question, he answered the declaration. Allow me to enter the same mode. I'll ask myself a question at the end.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u93	You won't have time! Noise and lines by GERB)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u94	We wouldn't mind you investigating and revealing subpoenas, and don't transfer them to this leadership and to this group. Look for them where they were made in the past. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] We won't be held accountable for as long as we live...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u95	That's not true, that's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u96	...for past mistakes. But you're ten years in the same department, so answer for those ten years. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You're saying you transferred money to Pernik? But why now, since the crisis is at least four years old?! Where did you sleep this time?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u97	Twenty seconds to the question, Mrs. Ninova! That's what I gave Mr. Prime Minister. [[Noise and lines to GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u98	All right, calm down. Take it easy, guys. You're very nervous, relax. [[Noise and lines to GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u99	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u100	There's only one question. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u101	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u102	The Prime Minister accused me of quoting him, okay? I quoted his words, and he said: "Why are you talking about these things? " - Well, I was quoting his words about Schengen. My question now is one. Mr. Prime Minister, on 5 June 2019 you received in Bulgaria, in Sofia, the Foreign Minister of the Netherlands Steph Block. You once said Holland didn't want us in Schengen for selfish reasons. Well, their foreign minister was here, you talked long and wide. Please inform both us and the Bulgarian public what he said to you about Bulgaria's accession to Schengen, as the Netherlands is one of the countries...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u104	...who are firmly opposed? Tell me what your conversation was and what he told you!? What's the reason we can't get into Schengen?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u106	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ninova, of course you have the opportunity and the right to ask for my resignation. I, unlike you, gave it to myself twice and left the station. [[Applause from GERB.]] Twice! And you lied to that million-dollar guy about giving up your resignation. [[crowd cheering and laughing at GERB]] And one week later, you said, "I'm not giving it back." [[Laughter from GERB and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u107	On the subject, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u108	There is a nice saying that in the house of the hanged rope should not very much be waving and the word "repair" on your part [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] When you use it, you should always think of what you did. Otherwise, with the Foreign Minister of the Netherlands, I don't know if you know that two weeks ago Mrs Esther was head of the right-wing party in the Netherlands, did her work, went to the border of both the Bulgarian and the Turkish and our Black Sea, so that she could inform the Dutch Parliament and her colleagues there what great progress Bulgaria is making in this direction. You said about the Netherlands, but the Netherlands, for selfish reasons, feels the same way, I have said it another time out of voice, as Greece is in Schengen, if Bulgaria and Romania are in Schengen, 2000 migrants per day enter Greece. Two thousand! They officially say it's 500, the services say it's 2000. But five hundred each, and if that's the whole Schengen area, they'll get to Holland without a place to stop them. Unfortunately, Bulgaria is the only country that is doing well with the migration flow, and that is why we are a model. So the Netherlands as a whole fully supports Bulgaria, we have perfect relations, even now we bought two ships from them for the military, they not only to Bulgaria, not only to Romania, not only to the Balkans are very skeptical. Including, to respond to your attack, I have also been on a bilateral visit to Croatia with all the official meetings with their prime minister on the topics on which Bulgaria is host next year. It's a process that has two events. One is counterterrorism, the other is counterradicalism. Plus, we are hosting the Berlin process involving the Chancellors of Germany and Austria, the President of France, the Prime Minister of Great Britain, Poland and the leaders of the Western Balkans. As Croatia is also the President of the European Union and these issues are also being raised, Croatians and I are currently drawing up a schedule of all these events how to conduct themselves and not fight in conflict at the same time or very close to not making sense of them. That's what we worked with Plenkovic. And to Congress, here, ask the journalists: I went, voted within 10 minutes in the morning and left immediately after the visit. I don't know what pissed you off about being involved! Maybe the fact that Maria Gabrielle was chosen with the most votes of all. [[Woman cheering from GERB.]] I'm sorry I've always treated you with great respect, but... [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yes, now this mayor of Pernik has come and put the problems ahead of him and not just them, but also a few others that will be solved for him. Just because it's from BSP, it doesn't matter to me. Let it be your success, it's important to be a success for the Pernians, so I did it. The old mayor couldn't run her own projects because she couldn't protect them.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u109	Time, Prime Minister. Mrs. Ninova, come in for attitude for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u110	Prime Minister, on the issue of resignations, I lied not a million Bulgarians, I lied to you and several businessmen in Bulgaria. [[(Laughter and applause from the BSP for ……]] Would you like to know by name who and how you talked about replacing me from the position of Chairman of the BSP?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u111	Absolutely no one.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u112	Do you want me to say how much money you spent in this process to replace the chairman of the BSP? [[Noise and lines from GERB and from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u113	Attitude to the questioning, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u114	Yes, you are! On the contrary, we don't want to replace you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u115	So not the Bulgarian citizens who voted for BSP, but you, dear ones, and several businessmen who know what talks were involved in the mastery of BSP, you remained deceived. Well, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u116	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u117	You won't be able to control the BSP, at least not anytime soon! [[Replication of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov.]] As far as Maria Gabrielle is concerned, you're wrong. We don't get annoyed when Bulgarians are in high positions, it's also recognition for Bulgaria. We get annoyed when in this poverty you spend people's money for your personal and party purposes. These are two very different things. [[GERB lines.]] And now for Schengen. I asked you what the Minister of the Netherlands told you and you replied that they supported Bulgaria. Well, no! I quote the Minister of the Netherlands after the meeting with you: I was shown numerous pictures for security at the border. But there is one more part about how the government is dealing with corruption, human trafficking control, and is there any additional systems for this? It is necessary for your Schengen accession to further progress in the fight against corruption and a stricter system. And now the Bavarian Foreign Minister with Bavaria has good relations, wonderful. Joachim Herman said: "In no case should the Schengen area be expanded at the expense of the security of the German citizens. "
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u118	Time, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u119	He sees danger due to migration...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u120	Don't answer, ask.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u121	...and widespread corruption in Bulgaria and Romania. The reason we do not enter Schengen and Bulgaria to suffer from this, and the Bulgarian...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u122	Time, Mrs. Ninova!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u123	...Citizens to suffer from this is the corruption of the governments of Boyko Borisov... [[The President turns off the microphones. National Representative Cornelia Ninova continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u124	Time's up, thank you. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I spent a whole minute last time. I gave the attitude a whole minute we've been making up for now. Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. I thank the Prime Minister for participating in today's parliamentary control. [[Applause from GERB.]] We move on to a question from MP Stanislav Stanilov to Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov. He will answer a question about the remuneration in Bulgarian military science and military education. Here you are, Professor Stanilov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, last time you and I got away with parliamentary control because of me, and I publicly apologize for not meeting you back then. There is no doubt that the development of the world in the 21st century presents a number of challenges to the preparation and qualification of all who serve in the structures of the Bulgarian Army and especially in front of its command. Here we can point to both the growing role of science and technology and the new methods of human resources management and so on. A leading role in solving these challenges lies with the national military education system. The Bulgarian Society expects the academic positions of the most prepared and most motivated officers and generals, such as the long-standing tradition and practice of the Third Bulgarian State in the Military Academy and higher military schools. Against this background, I was deeply surprised by the information that the formation of basic and additional monthly wages in the Ministry of Defence was structured in a way that suggested for the same officer's rank to receive a cumulative higher remuneration if served in a combat unit than if taught at the Military Academy, for example. The everyday logic suggests that such a mechanism repels the most talented and ambitious officers from an academic career. I do not deny the need for teachers to have real combat experience, but it requires that other means be achieved, for example, with the requirement that teachers be relieved during a certain period of time in the respective army units. It also turns out that the addition to possessing the educational and scientific degree from servicemen is only BGN 42. Such an attitude certainly does not stimulate Bulgarian officers to increase their qualifications. I would just like to point out for example that at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and related scientific organizations this remuneration is within the range of BGN 200 to 600. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: what measures will you take for the financial stimulus of those who develop the Bulgarian military science and education? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u126	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u127	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stanilov, it is normal with commitment or other reasons. Last time we could not meet at the parliamentary control, but the topic you are referring to is important. That's why I'm glad I'm going to be able to answer you now. Under the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, military educational institutions and military formations are an integral part of the armed forces and, as such, they build and carry out their tasks of organisational subordination, unitary and hierarchy in the powers of the commanders and superiors defined in the statutes of the armed forces. These fundamental principles are also applied in the design of all military posts, regardless of their assigned career field or area.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The military education system maintains constant feedback with military formations and updates the content of the curriculum in accordance with the challenges of the security environment in the modern conditions in which we are present. This is achieved mainly by conducting military internships in military formations by military personnel members of the academic staff. Each position in the armed forces shall have its specific characteristics, requiring and responsibilities, for which servicemen shall receive additional remuneration regulated by the Ministry of Defence regulations. The academic staff shall also receive additional remuneration for the education and scientific degree acquired by Doctor and PhD, and the remuneration for the first shall be BGN 42. And 95 leva. For the second one. By my command, I have authorized the heads of the structures of the military education system, at the expense of their own revenue, to determine greater additional remuneration for the members of the academic staff by decision of the relevant academic councils. The policy of the Ministry of Defence is aimed at the development of military education and science in the long term. In order to seek additional funding and to stimulate academic personnel in the ongoing defence review, a review of the internal regulations concerning higher education and science is set up. Thank you, Mr. Professor. I just want to add that with my scientific degree doctor in the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria I received one reward and in the Ministry of Defence at the beginning it was 12 BGN and now it is 42 BGN.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u128	Thank you, dear Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u129	What's for the academic staff is also for the minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u130	Thanks for the punctuality. Come in now, Mr. Stanilov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u131	So, the addition that whatever it is to the minister, it's for the military staff, it's commendable, but it's not commendable that it's so low. You are better than me, I am convinced, you know the history of the Bulgarian Army and of the Bulgarian military science, you are just a professional in this work. You know very well the generals, the general generals of the Bulgarian People's Army from the beginning of its modern existence where they received and how they received their education in Russia, the Russian General Staff Academy, the Italian General Staff Academy, the German General Staff Academy and so on. In the wars that the Bulgarian army has survived, it has only won for these reasons because the Bulgarian government and the Bulgarian command have made extraordinary efforts in this direction. And apparently, politics didn't make the effort to lose all political battles at the expense of the army. I call on you from this tribune, Mr. Minister, to start repeating this attempt to send General Staff Officers to foreign academy, even in the Russian, regardless of the geopolitical struggles, to get acquainted with the world's experience in this regard. And one more thing. Recently, in your famous magazine, Geopolitics and GeoStrategy, I read an interesting article by a Bulgarian geopoliticalist, where he paid attention that the supply of the Bulgarian army with these types of weapons that you are now supplying it with is commendable, but the Bulgarian army must develop in another direction in those integration wars, in those high-tech ways of fighting wars, and that is only with the high development of science throughout the country and scientific organizations. The Bulgarian military command, the Bulgarian government and the Bulgarian society should pay attention to this. The future wars aren't who they were. They will be quite different and will not help us neither modern ships nor modern aviation. We will be helped by very other structures that other countries develop, and as far as I am concerned, we have not yet experienced. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u132	Thank you, dear Mr. Stanilov. Would you like the word for the doppelganger? Here you are, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u133	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Professor Stanilov, we don't really have a difference of opinion with you. As I said, in the preparation of the strategic review, this is at stake in the scientific sphere. That's right. The other thing you missed, and we're doing it in practice, is schools, military schools. You mentioned very correctly, there were raised those officers who buried the victories on the battlefields of Bulgaria during the Balkan, Inter-Union and World War I. But, unfortunately, for years some of these educational establishments have become more or less a permanent port. I mean, you go in there and you don't move. It is very important not only that you have received education or specialization abroad, but that our officers are trained not only in the West, but also in China at the Academy, that is, it is not one-sided. This summarizes the experience that others accumulate. What we are doing is sending younger officers with experience in active formations, not becoming a stamina and the entire career of a lecturer to pass from the office to the home, that is to say he has lost the connection with the real conditions under which the servicemen themselves work. This is extremely important again by the same example you set. Before 9 September, the best officers with experience were sent to the chiefs of military schools, with achievements that served as chiefs of military school, but then continued to develop and return to the ranks. That's exactly what we're trying to do, and that's what we've done. Take the head of the Military Academy. Former commander of the brigade, the current head of the Military School in Veliko Tarnovo, the University of Veliko Tarnovo. That's our idea for the future head of Air Force School. Regarding your payment, I said that this is a question that we have not overlooked, we do not underestimate it. In the upcoming review, which is being prepared, this is one of the topics that, as I have already answered you in my question, are at stake. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u134	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to the questions of the Minister of Economics "Emil Karanikolov." The first question is from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov on the state of the Operational Program "Innovation and Competitiveness." Mr. Alexandrov, you have the floor to develop the issue for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Minister! In the following year, we are about to enter the last year, sort of like the winter of the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" (OPIC), of the Multiannual Financial Framework. This is the main Programme with which the Bulgarian business draws resource, external resource, the main Programme on which we rely to have economic growth that will increase purchasing power and change the country's economic performance completely. In relation to the above, I ask you the following questions, namely: what is the implementation of the Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" at the moment, what is coming to the end of the programme itself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u136	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Here you are, Mr. Minister, to answer, you have three minutes for the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u137	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to thank you for the question and for all the questions that have been asked to me. In relation to your questions, I inform you of the following. 13 procedures have been announced for granting grants through competitive selection, 15 procedures for direct granting of such aid, 7 budget lines. The announced procedures and financial agreements with the Financial Instruments Manager in Bulgaria are worth 2 billion. 375 million. lv. 91.91% of the budget of the Operational Programme. A total of 2453 contracts have been concluded, including a financial agreement with the Fund and 74 contracts under the initiative lv. The implementation is 819, including three technical assistance budget lines, the grant agreement. There are 1569 contracts with final payment claims. The payments made amount to 1 billion. 15 million. BGN, namely 44.39% of the budget of the Programme. The Verified Funds under the Programme amount to 1 billion. 13 million. lv.; certified funds under the Programme amount to 1 billion. Eight million. BGN, namely 41,70% of the budget programme. Implementation of the VOMR approach under OPIC. 31 agreements were concluded with local initiative groups with a total budget of 57 million. lv.52 selection procedures for projects totaling 49 million have been announced. BGN, which is 86% of the total financial resource of the agreements concluded. Currently, 23 project selection procedures are open for applications. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid granted by the Region is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that it does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 In implementing the OPEC financial instruments within the framework of the Programme, three of the priority axes provide funding for six financial instruments with a total budget of 235 million. Euros. At present, three operational agreements have been concluded with financial intermediaries of a total value of 60 million. EUR, which are at a stage of structuring and raising investment capital. Two public procurement procedures for the selection of the Fund are currently being carried out and assessed. Euros. By the end of the programming period, procedures under the Public Procurement Act are to be announced for the selection of financial intermediaries under the envisaged debt instruments for a total of 85 million. Euros. Upcoming OPIC procedures until the end of the period: procedure "Stimulation of innovation deployment in enterprises................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Euro; procedures for improving the business environment and development of innovation infrastructure with beneficiaries: Sofia Tech Park, the State Agency for Metrology and Technical Supervision and the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology. By the end of the period, procedures are to be announced in the implementation of the VMR approach according to the schedules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u138	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u139	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Indeed, it is evident from the data that this is the Operational Programme with a serious resource, which is perhaps towards its final.. It is currently approximately 92% in the implementation of the funds. The annual rate is estimated to be about 15%, which can be implemented by the Ministry of Economy and the Managing Authority as a whole, which is commendable to the team of the Ministry of Economy and the Managing Authority as a whole and to all who are not only under your leadership for the entire 7-year period. I'm glad we have such a program that can serve as an example. It would be nice if we could achieve a re-negotiation, that is, an increase in resources, so that we can show and send signals to our partners in Europe and to the Bulgarian business, that the Ministry of Economy and the Bulgarian Government work for a larger resource, therefore to reach a larger number of correspondents in Bulgaria from business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u140	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. For the doppelganger, Mr. Minister, two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u141	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Operational Programme "Innovation and competitiveness" is one of the programmes that is really going well. I believe that it will not only be this programme that will be implemented. However, when we provide the programmes, the absorption of funds is not the only and most importantly, we must also indicate the effect. What the Bulgarian business can boast about and which I am sure it has also worked through the policies implemented by the European Union by these funds is precisely for this calendar year. Firstly, we have improved our place of freedom of the economy by 11 places and by 11 positions we have improved our place of digitalization of the Bulgarian economy, which means that these funds also have effective absorption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u142	Thank you, dear Minister, including the time saved. We move on to the next question by the National Representative Hristo Prodanov concerning the State Enterprise Management and Management of Dams. You have the floor to develop your question in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u143	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, first of all, allow me to express my great gratitude and gratitude to you for finally answering my question. I say at last. Because my question is asked on September 17th, now we are almost December. What provoked me to ask a question in September to you? This is an act of the Council of Ministers, which took place in August, the holiday season in which the Council of Ministers granted an additional 13 million to the State Dam Management Enterprise. And I came up with the question: what happened to the 500 million, which were granted in July 2018, again such a holiday month, to the DQM................................................................. The information that is almost generally known is that the enterprise is now being created... was appointed Management Board, I think four or five months ago, and now, as far as I have information, staff are being recruited to complete the team of the state enterprise. In 2018, the motive for granting these 500 million was an emergency repair of 400 dams that threaten the security of citizens living within the scope of these dams. No emergency repairs have been made on these dams.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... What's the emergency? A year and a half, as far as I know, nothing has been started. My question to you is: what did the additional 13 million have to be released after they were previously granted, as I said, 500 million?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u144	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. You have the floor to answer, Minister, within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u145	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Prodanov, thank you. I've been waiting to answer you since September, but it's not my turn, including last week. But as a matter of fact, now you'll get an update. I haven't prepared my response to September to tell you what it was like in September, but I'll tell you what the reference to today is. As you know, during the last year urgent measures were to be taken to solve accumulated over the years problems of maintaining and operating the dams in Bulgaria, mainly focusing on three directions. Changes to the Water Act were adopted by the National Assembly and a state enterprise was created "Management and management of the dams." It has been entrusted with the implementation of complex management of the dams of public and private state ownership, as well as the financing of these activities is financed mainly by the state budget. In fact, the company started operating at the end of July 2019. A transfer of 12 million from the state budget was made for the resource provision of its activities with a decree of the Council of Ministers on 15 August 2019. 140,000. £400. Immediately after the amendment to the Water Act by the local authorities' contractors began actions to specify the status and change the ownership of the dams. This process continues and I will give further information shortly. By Decision No 495 of 13 June 2018, supplemented by Decision No 698 of 4 October 2018, the Council of Ministers approved a list of 418 dams in need of urgent repair. In accordance with Paragraph 4 (c), paragraph 4 (b) is replaced by the following: 1 of the Water Act with the first decision the Council of Ministers defined the State consolidation company as a commercial company with 100% state participation in the capital, which would entrust the repair and reconstruction of the 418 dams mentioned. I draw attention to the fact that it is entrusted to the State Consolidated Company to carry out the relevant activities................................................................................................ In this way, the possibility to take urgent action and check the technical and operational state and, respectively, whether it meets the regulatory requirements regarding dams shall be ensured. The State provided funds for the implementation of this activity in the form of a non-cash contribution of 500 million. lv. from the company's capital. Now get to the point. Currently of these 418 dams are awarded 182 sites by them. This is about passporting, finding documents and drawing up documents. This is all being done by the State Consolidated Company. Why? If you recall, a year ago and something we had debates here about the establishment of the state enterprise. Even then, I think that I rightly pointed out, and this is what is happening now that the establishment of the State-owned enterprise, as a decision on its creation, will not in any way solve the problem, as this company is currently engaged in the transfer of ownership in order to become the owner and from now on to manage these dams. In parallel with this.. and this was made public, we have provided money from the state budget State consolidation company to start an analysis of the state of these 418 dams from last year. As of now, 182 of them already have prepared analyses. Specifically, we've already got construction started, and I'm going to give quantitative bills. The first one is near the village of Burgas, and the value, without VAT, will be about 1 million. 900,000. lv.; second dam, started, Six hundred thousand. lv.It's in Asenovgrad, 1 million. $800,000. lv.; Konska. in Breznik. 1 million. $800,000. lv. Dams with open construction sites:.Drajintsi, this is in Ruzhintsi, the amount of this value of the repair.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 900,000. lv.It's in Berkovitsa. It's 4 million. $800,000. lv. [[Reply from the National Representative Hristo Prodanov.]] At the moment we have five dams where we have started construction activities, on five construction sites have been uncovered. By the end of this year, another five to 10 sites are expected to be launched. I will also point out the values in the answer you will receive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u146	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u147	Dear Minister, I am aware of the saga that passed both the municipal councils and so on. I can tell you: 106 municipal councils have transferred 2318 dams into the assets of the new enterprise. I know all about it. About the urgency I said that urgent, urgent, how urgent, after a year and a half have not been started or examined and analyzed the condition of these dams?! Analyze 126 dams. I don't know analyzing costs any serious means. You've listed several dams that are there for a million two three-fives. Come on, all those who say they've started or performed some activities on them, make it 20.30 million. Only here we're talking about 500 million government money tied up, sitting somewhere, maybe you can tell in your answer, and they're sleeping. That money's asleep! Since we are now in a budgetary procedure and we of the Bulgarian Socialist Party are proposing various social policies for recalculation of pensions, child benefits and so on, we will have this debate when it enters the Chamber, the answer of the ruling majority is: "There is no money! There's no money for that, no money for that! Here's the money, Minister. Five hundred million has been somewhere for a year and a half. A billion three hundred and fifty million last year were transferred to the state-owned company. And pretty much the same thing with them. Here you are from last year 2 billion. BGN, which are standing somewhere and are intact, and at the same time, because this is a political issue. We are here a political body, a matter of this money entering the turnover, to enter the consumption so that something can develop in the Bulgarian economy. Do you understand? This, in addition to being a question of transparency, is a question of where this money is and what is happening to it, and of good management of these funds by the state, which is obviously not happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u148	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u149	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Prodanov, analysis costs money. At 182 dams to create documents, passportation, property documents, technical documents, projects worth money. These 500 million were given targeted only and only to repair these dams and the reports you will receive at the end will indicate that they have been carried out precisely for this activity. Right now, we have a problem with the fact that there's no water. But, you know, previous years we've had other problems, and dams are a problem that you've been putting on a lot of times. I assure you that this money is given a target. Unfortunately, I'd like to fix them all already. It's not easy because there's no paperwork. You know, in the municipalities, they don't have documents for these dams. We don't know their purpose. Was the purpose of collecting water, watering, or was there some other strategy? All of this needs to be analyzed. That takes a lot of time. The important thing is that the repairs have started. The important thing is that the repairs started because that's probably the most important thing. I assure you that indeed these 182 dams, which we are already ready with, but are still waiting for a municipal election, should give you permission to build, believe me, two or three months and it slowed us down, however strange it may sound. I am sure that next year will be extremely active and the Bulgarian business working in this sector will be able to show its opportunities. Of course, he will be paid for all of this, but this money will be for their main goal... not to have any distress situations with the dams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u150	Thank you, dear Minister. We are going to the next question to you from the National Representative Georgi Gokov on the intentions for the future of Stara Zagora Airport. You have the floor to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, my question to you is about your intentions for the future of Stara Zagora Airport. It is imperative that you answer it because in recent months, including because of local elections, the subject of Stara Zagora Airport has somehow become up-to-date again. This is quite understandable because the question of the future of the airport has always been of extreme public interest to the citizens of Stara Zagora. Against this background of the issues raised, the Stara Zagoras are concerned about the lack of accurate information about the state's intentions, on the other hand, and the local authorities vis-à-vis this strategically important for both the municipality and the country region. The many lands collected at the same place in a strategic place also imply the importance of this issue. The position of the State and the local authorities with regard to the airport is constantly changing. In their management programme, the winners of local elections in the distant 2015 promised a future for Stara Zagora Airport, with the idea of becoming an international cargo centre. They even declared it one of the priorities for developing the region that is interested in investors, and its activities can be resumed on the basis of a public-private partnership. I view this as more of an election trick, because nothing like that happened then. Now, after the elections that were won again by the same party, there will be a new leadership, perhaps the same, it will also have to form a position on the issue. But you must also answer the question about the future of Stara Zagora Airport. You yourself announced last year that a project was being prepared for a logistics hub between Europe and Asia, combined with the use of the runway at Stara Zagora Airport. Regardless of the series of your and other responsible statements, this repeatedly announced project remained only a series of media appearances and vain promises to Stara Zagora. Currently, even the status of Stara Zagora airport raises the question and a sense of ambiguity. There is no clear reason and the logic of this company being part of and being absorbed by the State consolidation company to the Economic Ministry. In this regard, I ask you to answer the question: what is the situation around Stara Zagora airport and what are the intentions of the owner for the future of the airport? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u152	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. You have the floor to answer, Minister, within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u153	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, and your question is from September month, but at least you have witnessed that I tried several times to... First of all, I want to thank you. You know that the Ministry of Economy, of course, as in other areas, is doing everything possible to develop Stara Zagora. You know, we have been involved in financing the new industrial zone, on which we have just begun digging, but at the moment the issue is about an extremely important asset for Stara Zagora, which I am sure will be used again. In line with one of the main objectives of the Ministry of Economy to promote investment in support of regional economic development, Stara Zagora Airport is actively promoted among potential investors for the construction of an international cargo centre or logistics hub between Europe and Asia. In addition to the possibility of restoring its activities as airport infrastructure, I pay attention to the recovery of the activities, because this is what we call an airport, but it does not have such documents at the moment, nor does it have the right there to land or take off anything. You know that very well, not that it can't happen. This is an extremely good potential location for the implementation of a large investment project, as well as for the development of an industrial area due to the large area and the built infrastructure. Such sites are of interest to strategic investors, especially in the industry, and the Ministry of Economy provides an advantage to Stara Zagora Airport by organising on-site surveys, providing investors. At the same time, the choice of location is also justified by many factors in the final decision of the investor, and Stara Zagora is one of the best places as the current location for investment. Given the advantages of the location, we are taking into account a serious interest of interested potential investors and I hope that a specific project will be initiated soon to develop at Stara Zagora Airport. The terrains at Stara Zagora Airport, thanks to the Ministry of Defence, are much larger because we took them and reunited them with them. At present we have three investors who are considering the possibility of investment on the territory of Stara Zagora Airport. Last week we had an informal conversation, I mentioned to you, but what I have as a commitment is that I will introduce the society in Stara Zagora, I have had a meeting there and I took it as a commitment before we make any decision. At present, our main priority remains to be a logistical hub for goods between Europe, Asia and Africa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u154	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Gokov, within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! Mr. Minister, I thank you for your answer and for your concern. I want to tell you what my question is dictated by. I am convinced that Stara Zagora's future is linked to a serious reorganization of the regional economy and to future investors in Stara Zagora. Now I will not develop, due to the limited time, the theory that the source of energy is the coal in the Mini Maritsa East is exhausted and there are directives that prevent further utilisation of the resource. Sooner or later Stara Zagora will have to reorganize its entire economy and turn to investors. From another point of view, the airport is indeed a huge area of strategic location with built infrastructure. Perhaps inappropriate for investors, but there is this infrastructure, so it represents wealth and value for Stara Zagora as a city, as a municipality, and for the whole area. I do not wish that we could play out, how can I say, Stara Zagora's chance to obtain such an investor to determine the future economic development of Stara Zagora. Like the discovery of coal fields 50 years ago, 60 years ago, they have given a direction to the economy in Stara Zagora, to find such an investor to make possible the future economic development of Stara Zagora powerful economic development because Stara Zagora deserves it because Stara Zagora has potential because Stara Zagora is located in the center of Bulgaria and a number of things. I am, of course, addicted, and that is why I am speaking with such enthusiasm about Stara Zagora. It's good to have three investors. I would very much like, when you talk to investors, to really talk about staying a logistical hub for a link between Europe and Asia. In some way to use the givenness, because this airport was built back in 1939 with the assistance of German experts and specialists and found a suitable place for it. I don't want us to miss out on the possibilities to keep it that way as an airport. I know he doesn't have the qualities of an airport now, only his name is one, but with a little effort from all the countries, the local authorities, the state authorities, will be able to go that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u156	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Hole, Minister, two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u157	In a nutshell, thank you again. I assure you that I understand exactly and clearly what you are telling me and the problem that is troubling you. We appreciate it, too, without going into detail. I note that also in the answer I pointed out, I explicitly said Strategic Investors. For this location, for this place we really need to find a strategic investor because it is a good location and because of future events that can happen, and I assure you that it will work. It's no problem restoring the airport. It's no problem to take out money and make an airport. It would be a problem to make a monument. It is good to find an operator, an investor, we have such letters, we have initiated such procedures and I assure you that the society in Stara Zagora will make the final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u158	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the final question for you in today's parliamentary control. He is from the National Representative Alexander Sabanov on the construction of Industrial Park in Silistra. You have two minutes to develop your question, Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u159	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly! My question is dictated by a meeting which we kindly organized in Silistra, I think it was May 2018 in connection with the launch of a procedure for the production of the so-called Industrial Zone or Industrial Park.Silistra, which will be part of the industrial parks of Bulgaria, as this gives quite extensive opportunities for the Ministry to promote this destination.Silistra as a destination for investment, to invite investors, easier to meet investors and to explain to them that the real free advertising by the state for this last investment region in Bulgaria is very important. Silistra is a town located on the Danube River, i.e. there is cheap water transport, there is railway transport and the terrains that we commented then, together with the industrial zones are in a very good communicative place close to gas, close to large power plants, canal, water, everything is about how to say on the spot. The question is: what has happened since May 2018 and whether any negotiations have reached, where are they with the municipality of Silistra? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u160	Thank you, dear Mr. Sabanov. You have the floor to answer the question within three minutes, Mr. Karanikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u161	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Sabanov, thank you for asking. I'll save everything for the meeting because you know it better. The meeting was on 10 May 2018. At the moment. After we received information about the terrain, which I thank you for, we started marketing. Currently, possible terrains are offered to 14 investors without then showing interest. I'm just gonna get to the point of what we need to do to make things happen. Unfortunately, the time has passed when we brought investors to some beautiful green terrains, agricultural lands most often. Investors, unfortunately, already want, and not unfortunately, it is their right, they want already built industrial zones and to provide them with land with the necessary infrastructure. It's hard to convince an investor to come somewhere green for a lot of reasons. The Law on Industrial Zones is also being prepared right now. There will be many additional rights and obligations for investors who will be in these industrial zones. From this point of view, I'm going to offer you what we've done in some municipalities. I give an example with Stara Zagora, namely the municipality to set up a municipal company to import these terrains, which, once again, are good, but are not built. After that, the National Company "Industrial Zones" to enter this municipal company through an increase in capital, i.e. with cash. This cash to stay in the company and it to start designing and building the Industrial Zone. The competitors, who are our friends, our neighbours, do this to ready industrial zones. In many moments they stand empty, but when an investor comes, they offer a ready opportunity. It's the only solution. We're already doing it with a lot of municipalities. It is also Silistra's future to make a municipal company to import these properties and then enter with participation. We just have to have an infrastructure built, or an investor won't come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u162	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u163	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, I don't think you understand my question. My question was, where are they? At this meeting, we commented on this exactly, the construction of the Industrial Zone, with the Municipality of Silistra and the Municipality of Industrial Zones, which is owned by the State, just in the order in which you have just said. This was said at this meeting, at which, of course, the Mayor of Silistra took part, and from then on such actions should have been taken in this direction. The words with which you answer me, it becomes clear that nothing has actually been done, I do not even know what 14 properties are talking about, because I in this meeting, then you were prevented from coming, but Mr. Deputy Minister Lachezar Borisov was there. I don't know what 14 pitches we're talking about. It is quite another thing about building an industrial zone with the help of the state and the participation of the municipality with terrains, and not about 14 terrains, which someone has obviously submitted and, of course, there will be no interest in green areas, provided that it is clear to all of us that some of our neighbours are making even halls, not only plots and industrial area. They also make halls at the request of the investor, who says that he wishes, for example, 1000 square meters or 2,000 square meters, which passes at the expense of the state or the industrial zone. I'm fully aware of that. My question was this one: is there any action by Silistra Municipality to the Ministry for the establishment of Industrial Park in Silistra nothing more? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u164	Thank you, dear Mr. Sabanov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u165	Thank you. Under Bulgarian law, the Ministry of Economy cannot decide to establish a municipal company. It's only in the city council's rights. The answer is: at the moment there is none. There's gotta be a way for the country to get in. I'm just gonna ask for one correction. I did not say 14 properties, but I said that 14 investors were offered the terrains, which then, at the meeting in question, were proposed as a location, but we have no further interest. We'll contact the city. It has to make a company, to import the land and only then the Ministry of Economy through its own companies can enter this implementation. I'm gonna have to ask you to cooperate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u166	Thank you, dear Mr Karanikolov, for your response and for your participation in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the following three questions to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev. The first question is from MP Stanislav Stanilov on the budget funding of research in 2019. Mr. Stanilov, please ask your question to Minister Valchev. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u167	Dear Minister, for several years the Ministry of Education and Science has been conducting a reform which aims to make the Bulgarian research and university community a full participant in the European academic space. Different tools apply to increase the visibility of Bulgarian science. One of these instruments encourages Bulgarian scientists to publish in publications referred to and indexed in world-famous databases of scientific information. Such an instrument gives a good result in highly globalized areas such as medicine, natural and technical sciences, for which language and cultural boundaries are of no importance. At the same time, there is a danger of having a counterproductive effect in humanitarian and social sciences, which should by their nature create their own language and study topics that are not interesting to the outside audience, but are extremely important for national identity. In this regard, the need for a system to follow the quoted in Bulgarian publications is particularly acute. The problem was raised in the last year of several discussions, which were attended by Deputy Minister Angeleva. On behalf of the Ministry, it has expressed its readiness to create a National system for tracking quotes, a National Index of Cyrrhicity. A positive opinion was also expressed by Deputy Minister Nikolov, who is responsible for implementing the Law on the Academic Chambers. Such an approach is not a precedent. Two major scientific schools "Russian and South Korean, which do not write in Latin, have created their own national index and simultaneously integrated it into the world-famous database of scientific information Web of Science. The representatives of the same database in Bulgaria are familiar with the discussion and have agreed in principle to integrate a possible Bulgarian index into their system for tracking the quotes. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: what has been done by the Ministry of Education and Science so far for the creation of a National Citriutity Index and what funds are planned in budget 2020 for its financial security?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u168	Thank you, dear Mr. Stanilov. You have the floor to answer the question, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u169	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Stanilov, I have largely answered this question to a previous parliamentary control. Today I expected you to ask me about the percentage of funding for research from the budget and gross domestic product. I admit, I had prepared myself for this question, and this one I answered in detail, but he will still repeat his answer. Fact is what you say. International reference databases are really targeted, to a greater extent reflect the audience activity in the natural, technical sciences, those which, in other words, are more convertible in the quotes. We need a national reference database. We've taken action in this direction. Its construction will not be so easy. At European level, a database for open science is also being prepared. We also hope that most of our national journals in the field of humanities will be referenced. We should also encourage what we are doing is encouraging more magazines to be referenced in these databases that are international. I can't commit to a specific deadline, but perhaps it is realistic to have such a national database within a year and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u170	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u171	I apologize for the repetition, it was an accident, but it's actually an excuse to say something further to this problem. I attended the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences at a meeting where a group of mathematicians and bibliographers had developed a similar system and said that in order to become common to our entire science, they needed about half a million to do the project. I think that this is not much of a money that can be spent, and it will be extremely useful, because when scientists are tested in humanitarian organisations and humanitarian universities, there is a big mess when we need to evaluate scientists who is and what level is, who is how to evaluate and so on, and this continues to give us great difficulties. Otherwise, in the international system, some of the humanities have a place and refer. It's getting very complicated here, so hopefully after the South Koreans and the Russians, we'll still be the third to qualify, and that'll do us a lot of international honor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u172	Thank you, dear Mr. Stanilov. Would you like a douche? No. We are moving on to the next question from the MP Nona Yotova, in which our former colleague Anelia Klisarova participates. It is about taking what is necessary to restore and store the National Students' House. You have the floor to develop your question, Mrs. Yotova, within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u173	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Our question is with Professor Anelia Klisarova. We were together, but she is no longer in our parliamentary group because she became a municipal councillor in Varna. Our question is from September. Dear Minister, we thank you for your written answer to the question about the National Students' House. What you say sounds good on paper, but unfortunately, we do not see commitment to certain means and deadlines for rebuilding and storing the building. The fact is, there's still no investment project. The use of the ground floor for a number of cultural events was possible thanks to the efforts of the National Representation of Student Councils and the students themselves. Our question to you is: within what deadlines will the necessary documents be prepared and the repair work of the building will be carried out? We also did not get an answer to another question, so we will ask you again: will the necessary funds for the renovation of the building lie in the 2020 budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u174	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yotova. Mr. Valchev, you have the floor for a response within three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u175	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yotova, I'm sorry for the delay that happened. The implementation of the activities and events listed in my previous response from 1 August require long-term planning, requiring the provision of significant financial resources and compliance with the technological deadlines for the implementation of the individual stages. In 2019 we provided funds to carry out a survey on the technical characteristics of the National Students' House building, drawing up the technical passport with recommendations regarding its constructive sustainability. A study of energy efficiency and the issue of an energy certificate of the building is needed and is to be carried out. Once the two investigations are in place, it will be possible to form a working group with the Director of the National Student House. It will be attended by experts from the Ministry of Education, representatives of the National Representation of Student Councils, artists of culture and art, architects, specialists, engineers to prepare a technical assignment for the major renovation of the entire building. Following the approval of the assignment, a selection of a design team will be made for the preparation of an investment project of all parts, including the energy efficiency of the building. At this stage, it will be possible to specify the deadlines for drawing up investment projects to be agreed with the Ministry of Culture. Following the preparation of an investment project, it will be necessary to assess the specific renovation and reconstruction activities and to carry out planning with specific financial parameters and implementation stages. The choice of contractor and the execution of the construction itself will take place at the next stage. In the meantime, current repairs are being carried out. In 2019 we allocated funds and needed partial internal repairs of the central lobby and sanitary nodes. The Ministry of Education and Science has carried out preliminary studies on the planning of a comprehensive renovation and reconstruction of the National Students' House, has identified the above-mentioned activities for the institution as a priority project and has included them in the list of priority investment projects provided for implementation within the lv. for 2020, 2021 The total estimated value is 2,5 million. As the State Budget Act defines the budget of the senior authorising officers, the budget implementation decree specifies how much the capital costs of the Ministry's budget are and the investment programme of the Ministry becomes the allocation of sites. Depending on these deadlines, we are ready to include in the 2020 investment programme funds for the renovation of the National Students' House. As I told you, these are also provided in 2019. The large cost is the restoration of the burned parts of the building. You know that they are from 2001. There hasn't even been an investment interest there over the years, except for the last year and a half, but taking into account the opinion of the National Representation of Student Councils, which insist that this remain for management entirely of the National Student House, we have started to rent out. This isn't about a entertainment establishment, it's about an event center. Certainly, regardless of when this project will be ready, which we are talking about, we will most likely spend extra money on modernizing part of the premises in 2020. The Ministry has 400 minor officers. More or less we take care of all 3,700 educational institutions that are municipal. Two thousand objects we have at the Ministry of Education. The funds are never enough, but we have dealt with every single problem responsibly. Of course, there are more priority issues. Schools and kindergartens are always more prioritized, as a daily large number of children and students reside in them, especially when it comes to problems related to heating installation, emergency repairs and so on, we are obliged to prioritize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u176	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Yotova, would you like a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u177	Dear Minister, I hope that what you are saying will happen because if we look at the real........................ we will become 2020 very soon, and that is twenty years. I am convinced that the current students don't know at all what the student home used to be. I myself remember that 30 years ago I had some performances there of my first works with a guitar. In my opinion, it is precisely in this day and age when young people are actually extremely encapsulated in their own world, on the Internet and so on, it is extremely necessary that... there be a place to communicate where to exchange ideas, because, I think, the future is precisely in these young people and that is our hope. So I sincerely hope that these processes will speed up as much as possible, because life is passing. Come on, it's been twenty years, but not for many more years until the renovation of the Students' House takes place and he really starts working as a cultural center for young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u178	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yotova. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u179	Thank you. Just one clarification: The national student home works, the burned parts do not work and it is such a center. There are events going on inside, we have offices of student organizations, so it still works. We've been giving up money all these years. In all these 19 years, more or less money has been made available. Maybe some year there wasn't such a grant. My memory is that almost every year, albeit for a small thing, funds have been allocated to the National Students' House. The main problem, the big problem, is the burning part.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u180	Thank you, dear Minister. We come to the last question in today's parliamentary control by the National Representative Irena Anastasova on the activities of the Head of Regional Education Management Plovdiv. You are welcome to develop your question, Mrs. Anastasova, within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u181	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The reason for my question are signals from principals of schools as well as school teams from Plovdiv district. These signals claim that the Ministry of Education and Science is also addressed, as the Prime Minister Borisov was also referred to. For months in this town are commented on the media, in pedagogical collectives and among the public all sorts of benefits of the head of RIO from engaging with certain training organizations, to, to, to put it mildly, film-primes for the persecution and harassment of school principals. They describe the actions of the head of RIO Plovdiv, Ivanka Kirkova as systematic pressure for the selection of certain companies for teaching teachers or subsequent numerous checks of the darers to make the wrong choice. In this connection, checks are being made in connection with Ms. Kirkova's activities and the Regional Management of Education by the Prosecutor's Office for Signals of School Directors. Mr. Minister, regional education governments are territorial administrations to the Minister of Education and Science for Management and Control of the System of Pre-school and School Education. It is your right and your duty by law to appoint but also to control the activities of the heads of regional governments. Moreover, when the person who implements the policies of the Ministry of Education and Science in that region has the glory of transgressions, and this emores trust not only in regional governance but also in the Ministry of Education and Science, whose territorial administration represents regional governments. In this regard, my question to you is: what is your assessment of the work of the Head of RIO Plovdiv, and do you consider the methods and practices of management used by her to be acceptable; what control has been carried out by you and what measures have you taken to clarify the case and follow-up; which bodies have checked the activities of the Regional Government, Plovdiv; what are the results of the checks; is the Ministry of Education and Science familiar with them; and what measures has it taken? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u182	Thank you, dear Mrs. Anastasova. You have a word for an answer, Minister, within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u183	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Anastasova, since I am Minister of Education there is no signal that we have not worked at the Ministry of Education and Science. In 2017 and 2018 no signals were received with regard to Mrs. Kirkova. In 2016, a signal was received from the principal of the school whose relationship had been terminated. Checks have been carried out on all signals, I assure you. In 2019 we received such a signal. Most likely you refer to it by using the plural word. You need to specify whether this is about one or more signals. I very much hope you can clarify: do you have more than one signal? Because if it's about one signal from the last month, we have it, and it's about, as far as I know, your party member who's been released and who wrote that signal. Personally, it bothered me that he'd been in sick for 168 days since the beginning of the year. If you don't have any other signals, then similar innuendo that you say border on slander. This does not mean that I do not assume that the head of regional governance does not have such practices. Give me specific signals. Yeah, there are other checks. Including me, I've interviewed the Inspectorate for a publication. It is, say speeches, the same signal in the newspaper Maritsa. The D.O.D.'s inspectorate checked that out. There's been an audit by the D.A.'s office of the Economic Police and the D.G.B.P., which I haven't had any results on yet. Only they can identify the facts that are in the signal. We expect their results. I can assure you that in any case, we will be uncompromising if there are such violations, but I cannot stand by the principle of the presumption of guilt. I'm ready to forward the signals or you can forward those signals. I very much hope that the signals that are to the hospital's RSI will also be forwarded. On our part, there is in no way an irresponsible attitude towards Mrs. Kirkova. I have banned all regional management heads from organizing trainings with private training organisations. If you have such signals, please also give them to me. True, this ban has happened in recent days, but it is not provoked only by your response. It is provoked by the fact that we have made a change in the collective employment agreement and we have recorded that at least 50% of the funds for qualifications must be allocated to interinstitutional, interinstitutional qualifications, mutual learning, exchange of good practices. I expect regional governments, mainly for this type of training, to cooperate, to organise more methodological seminars where teachers exchange practices. You have repeatedly asked me the question of qualifications. You know that I agree with you in principle that a large part of the trainings carried out are not effective enough, and we have regulated a relatively open market for qualification services that many suppliers have entered, but now I will not repeat the whole answer that I have given you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u184	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u185	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! About the signals. If it was just one signal and, as you claim, from our party member who knows me, he knows that in the years that I have proved this in my actions that I do not care at all whether the person who signals me is a party member of the BSP or not. I can only remind you of a signal to the Center for Special Educational Needs in Kavarna, which you responded to. You know who the mayor was there, you know the whole situation. It didn't stop me from asking and wondering why legal matters were violated. For a month you must also know about the actions of the Director of the Secondary School "Supreme School" in Karlovo, again RIO Plovdiv, which the principal managed to fail, figuratively speaking, the school and in the middle of the year will no longer have money for salaries. For now, I don't know why. In this case, which you are talking about, it is about the Director of the School of Primary School Pencho Slaveykov " in Plovdiv" Mrs. Delinova. I would like to tell you that both cases are in the territory of RIO Plovdiv. I have other signals, of course, lips. You know, in the election we've been around a lot all over the country, some of the people are afraid to give me a written signal. My job as a Member of Parliament is to ask questions to the ministers, whether there is a written signal or just people have verbally explained their problem to me. Specially for the Primary School of Pencho Slaveykov, which you claim the principal took I don't know how many hospital days. Maybe she did. That's what checks are for. Right, look at the organs we're talking about. However, to argue in the media that this director has abused financially and in an audit to prove that there is no such thing and this does not correspond to the truth. I want to tell you that I've specifically familiarized myself with the case, I've read all the records of the checks that have been done at this school, which are countless within six months. I want to tell you that if this is why directors are fired, then half of the directors in Bulgaria should be fired if that is the reason. Because there, in these inspection protocols, and in the discharge order, there are no more financial violations simply because there are none. Except that's how you speculate in the media. The double archin, Mr. Minister: one director in Karlovo broke the school and the people had no salaries. He's on a well-deserved pension for $30,000. BGN, as is appropriate in the system, for 10 salaries. The other director, who works under extremely difficult conditions in the district of Stolipinovo, makes a good school, is harassed in this way. I'm not saying if it's Mrs Delinova's fault or not. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] That's what you and your organs can handle. I'm just saying that you can't have such a double arsin in the work of a regional governor. I don't have time to explain that it's about some...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u186	Mrs. Anastasova, get it over with.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u187	...such militia methods of work, house-hunting, pursuit of family members, which I, excuse me, as working in the education system, cannot accept as normal. I apologize, I demand to be informed of the checks you are carrying out there and of the measures you are taking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Here you go, Mr. Minister, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u189	Thank you. You said: "I don't know if Mrs. Delinova has committed a violation, but at the same time you do rebuttal that her actions are not based on a professional basis. You were talking about pressure in your question. I ask the heads of regional governments to exert pressure, pressure on directors to implement the basic policies for improving educational results, for covering, holding, including each child, for imposing the culture of professionalism and dedication, for better interaction with parents, for improving educational work. Whether they do it on a professional basis all the heads of regional governments do not. I can't guarantee they're doing this on a professional basis, but if they're not doing it on a professional basis and I feel that, I'm trying to be uncompromising to them. Of course, I cannot punish them and disproportionate to what they have done. Every case you've given me, I've ordered a check. You insist, and I insist you give these signals, check them out and see if there are any specific things in them. Yeah, there's got to be some principals out there who are scared. I'll allow that, too. I assume that not everything Mrs. Kirkova has done is professional, but we cannot freely, lightly accuse anyone of his work just because a few informal signals have piled up on us. Once again, the most important thing is that there is a check of specialized bodies. This inspection can go much further than our Inspectorate can do. I promise you, you insist, I promise you, I will get to know the results of it that have been provided to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-22.u190	Thank you, dear Mr. Valchev. This is running out of parliamentary control for today. Thank you for your participation. I also thank you, honourable Members, for your participation and for your presence. The next meeting will take place on Wednesday, 27 November 2019, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
