ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Welcome to the BSP colleagues! [[Noise and lines.]] Please register. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose to include it in the weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly the following additional item The importer is Daniela Daritkova on 28 May 2019. I propose that this be the first item for tomorrow's plenary session. Please vote regime. Vote 190 MPs: 188, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, after this point on tomorrow, we will proceed immediately with parliamentary control. Distribution of the Draft Law amending the Law on Political Parties, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 28 May 2019. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Message: Deputy Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that it has authorised by its own orders: the dispatch of troops with state weapons, equipment, equipment and equipment from the land troops to participate in a multinational exercise, which will take place in the military polygon Ogjeh, the Republic of Poland, for the time from 1 to 25 June 2019 and the dispatch of troops from the ground troops, air force and military academy Georgi Rakovski. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the competent state authorities have been notified. The notifications were received on 29 May 2019. No 903 09 26 and n. No 903-09-27 and granted to the Defence Committee. Colleagues, we continue with the first item of today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR SERVICES ACTIONS. Who's gonna introduce us to the Second Reading Report? Mr. Kanev, come in. [[Private applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u2	Colleagues, on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure please vote to allow us to vote in the Chamber by the Ministry of Economy Lachezar Borisov s Deputy Minister, and Desislava Georgieva, Head of Department of the Department of Technical Harmonization and Consumer Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u3	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 181 MPs: for 177, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u4	Report on Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Services Activities, No 902-01-18. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2019. It was adopted in the first vote on 9 May 2019. The Law on the activities of providing services is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u5	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. Vote 168 MPs: 166 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u6	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u7	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1 supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u8	Vote 156 MPs: for 156, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u9	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Chapter 4, Section III is created art. 23a: Art. 23a. The Single Contact Point and the European Consumer Centre of the Consumer Protection Commission shall provide practical assistance and assistance to the recipients of services in relation to the information referred to in art. 23, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u10	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 2. They voted 143 MPs: 142, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u11	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u12	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission for § 3. They voted 153 MPs: for 152, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u13	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4 by proposing in art. 29b, para. 2 words within the meaning of art. 2, p. 12 of Regulation (EU) 2018/302' shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u14	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer, supported by the Commission for § 4, with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission. They voted 137 MPs: for 137, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u15	The Commission proposes to establish an additional provision with a new § 5: Additional provision. .................................................................................. This law provides for measures for the application of Regulation (EU) 2018/302 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 February 2018 to overcome unjustified geographical blocking and other forms of discrimination on the basis of nationality, residence or place of establishment of customers within the internal market and amending Regulations (EC) No 2006/2004 and (EU) 2017/2394 and Directive 2009/22/EC.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u16	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to establish a supplementary provision by means of a new § 5, the text of § 5 is in accordance with the Commission report. They voted 137 MPs: for 137, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u17	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u18	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission on the name of the subdivision. Vote 138 MPs: for 136, there is no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u19	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In the Law on Consumer Protection (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Chapter 5, Section III is created art. 129a: Art. 129a. The European Consumer Centre of the Consumer Protection Commission shall assist consumers in the event of a dispute between a consumer and a trader arising from the application of the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2018/302 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 February 2018 to overcome unjustified geographical blocking and other forms of discrimination on the basis of nationality, residence or place of establishment of customers within the internal market and amending Regulations (EC) No 2006/2004 and (EU) 2017/2394 and Directive 2009/22/EC (OB, L60/1 of 2 March 2018.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2018/302'. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 186, para. 2 is created t. 12: ..12. Regulation (EU) 2018/302. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 191 is The Commission for Consumer Protection shall monitor compliance with the requirements of Regulation (EU) 2018/302 in cases where the customer is a consumer. 4. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 225d: Art. 225d (1) To a trader within the meaning of Regulation (EU) 2018/302 which does not comply with the requirements of art. 3, 4 and 5 of the regulation in cases where the customer is a consumer, a fine of 500 to 3000 BGN is imposed, and the sole traders and the legal persons are subject to a penalty of 1000 to 5000 BGN. on a case-by-case basis. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 fine is from 1000 to 6000 BGN and the penalty is from 2000 to 10 000 BGN.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u20	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 5, which shall become § 6. Vote 126 MPs: 125, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u21	........................................................... The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u22	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission for § 6 which shall become § 7. Vote 124 MPs: for 123, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. With this, we finished point one for today's work program. Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Moving on to the next point: ANNUAL REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE BULGARIAN ACADEMIA OF LEARNINGS 2018 The Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is the importer. You are welcome to present the Report of the Committee on Education and Science. Mrs. Damyanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u23	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Please, before I present the Report, let's vote for admission in the hall of academic Julian Revalski, Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u24	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. They voted 111 MPs: 111, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite Academician Revalski. Continue with the presentation of the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u25	Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on the Annual Activity Report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2018, No 905-002, submitted by the President of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences on 19 April The Commission At its regular meeting held on 15 May 2019, the Committee on Education and Science discussed the Annual Report on the Activity of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences on This Decision shall The meeting was attended by: Karina Angelievna "Deputy Minister of Education and Science," Member of the Vice-President of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, Prof. Evdokiya Pasheva "General Research Secretary of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences," who presented the Report, and Professor Lachezar Avramov "Director of the Institute of Electronics at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences." In 2018, 2728 scientists worked at the Academy. The publication activity includes 3101 titles in international reference magazines, 36% in the highest category Q1 at 28% for the previous year. Traditionally, the highest share has the direction of Nano sciences, new materials and technologies and the direction of................................................................................................. The budget subsidy in 2018 reached 99 million. 448 thousand. lv. Almost the entire subsidy is spent on salaries, insurance contributions, benefits and scholarships. Its own revenue and transfers in 2018 were 61,993 million. lv. They are formed by contracts under international programs and agreements, by contracts with ministries and offices, with Bulgarian and foreign companies, by selling production, services, donations and others. To them are added transfers from the Research Fund, from ministries and offices, from operational programmes and other programmes of the European Union. The Ministry of Education and Science presented a positive opinion on the Report and made recommendations for a more active presentation of the public benefits of the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences with special emphasis on the various advisory and expert opinions that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences has provided to ministries, government and public services, as well as for a more detailed report on the work of regional academic centers, which are a governmental priority in the coming years. The discussion included MPs Milena Damyanova and Stanislav Stanilov. They noted the need to review the functions of the Board of Governors in order to improve its work, as well as to find a fair balance between the remuneration of established scientists and young scientists to stimulate continuity in science. After the discussion was concluded and a vote was held with results: the National Assembly proposes to accept the following: Project! DECISION on the Annual Activity Report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2018 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 3, para. 3 of the Law on the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report on the Activity of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u26	Thank you. Dear Academician Revalski, please present the Report. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u27	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Allow me to present to you the Annual Report on the Activity of the Bulgarian Academy of The sciences for 2018 Let me start with a quote from our first president, Professor Marin Drinov, who says: "Perhaps we can expect that after a long time the company will become a Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and become one of the most magnificent universal temples of Bulgarian science. This year the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences celebrates its 150th anniversary as the successor of the Bulgarian book company, established in 1869 in Braila, Romania. Later, the words of Professor Drinov were really realized and in 1911 the company grew into the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. The annual report follows one content that is standard, so today I will not dwell on it. Before I go on the points of this content and present to you the main highlights of the work of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences allow me to mention several events that happened last year that mark some more important elements of our work, outside our purely scientific activity. [[Initiating computer presentation.]] During the Bulgarian Presidency in Bulgaria was held the General Assembly of the Federation of European Academies (ALLEA), which was hosted by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and co-organized by the accompanying scientific event, which was dedicated to the public trust, expert and responsible. I mention this event because it expresses the will of European academies to serve as a key factor in expert opinions in the countries concerned or at European Union level and to support decision-making by politicians. The second thing I would like to point out is that as a result of the National Strategy for Research Development, which you adopted in 2017, we have developed our own strategy, which is based on the National Strategy and at the same time takes into account the specifics of the work at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Our strategy is also for a long period of 2018 and we have marked the main stages in our development, and of course the aim is to become not only a leading regional leader in the region we are in but also to be at a high European level. Last year we started in some sense the celebrations for the 150th anniversary with the celebration of 180 years since the birth of one of the founders of the Academy Traditionally, a small part of our scientists are winners of various awards. To this slide I have given seven of our colleagues, who received the highest award in Bulgaria last year, which was given by the Ministry of Education and Science..................Pitagor........................................................................ They are in different areas of our research and show the high quality of our work in science and innovation. Let me make two more points. Our young people also enjoy great recognition. Last year, one of our colleagues received a high, prestigious international award for her development in the field of polymers and especially the applications of these developments, which are in different fields, mainly in medicine and biomedicine. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is trying to stimulate strong and high scientific achievements. For this reason, we have already traditionally, and in the future, established awards for the highest scientific achievements. Usually around November 1, when it is Buddhist Day, they will be served. Last year this happened for the first time and, as I told you, it will become a tradition in the future because we intend to continue it, namely to mark the achievements of our best scientists in their recognition in world science. Something that's important and I want to focus on it, even though I'm not going to show a lot of slides just the one that is right now. We wanted to understand the role of science in Bulgarian society and, respectively, the role of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Such a national representative survey has been carried out and I would like to make three points from it. The first is: as a whole, respondents note that science, as in other European countries, must become a priority. Notice that 66% of respondents are declared in favour of this thesis. I take this opportunity to address you with an appeal to raise science, research, innovation as a priority, along with education. Education and science have always walked together. We can't imagine, in any country, we can't see that only one is supported and the other isn't. They always go up together or go down together. My appeal again is that you, as MPs, also raise science, research and innovation as a priority, along with education. The second thing I would like to stress is that almost 50% of the respondents have confidence in the institution Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and only 5% do not trust. That is, the ratio between those who have confidence and those who do not have it is not on this slide, but it is in this study, the ratio between approval and disapproval is 9:1, which speaks of the authority of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. The third thing that is seen on this slide is that the majority of the respondents - 67% - recognize the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences as scientific and more than 50% as an expert center. Now let me start with the content. Traditionally, we begin with the activities of the Assembly of Academicians and correspondents. Without going into detail, I can tell you that about half of this academic body have worked and worked at the Institutes of the Academy, about half of them are colleagues who are in other scientific and cultural institutions. Its activity is equal and even transcends the activities of a major institute at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences in every respect. So this meeting contributes significantly to raising the image of Bulgarian science and the Bulgarian Academy in particular. Now let me switch to four pillars, basically, to our activity, namely the audience, project, expert and, of course, what we do in the spirit sphere, because we have the claim to be the country's spiritual center. The main point that I would like to point out in relation to research and public activities is that in your work the scientists from the Institutes of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences are guided by our basic documents, namely the National Strategy for Research Development, which, as I said, you updated in 2017, and the Innovation Strategy for Smart Specialization. The main thing that can be noted in terms of scientific publicity is that of those articles that are published by scientists of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and which are visible in the world database, 36% are in the first quarter of the highest category of these databases, which is significantly above the average world level, which is about 25%. I think this is a sure sign that in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences there is an extremely high-quality scientific research at the world level. From these publications I have noted that 26 top rankings in the relevant scientific field. The next slide is given distribution of these 26 publications by institutes. I would especially like to point out two things: we have publications, and it is very much 5 for a country such as Bulgaria, in the most prestigious scientific journal in the world. There are two Institutes that have such publications "The Institute of General and Inorganic Chemistry and the Institute of Astronomy, which is very enjoyable. There is a graph here that shows several data related to publications.. scientific articles, monographs, textbooks and teaching aids, science-popular works. As a number we have a slight decline in the previous year 2017, but as a quality we have improved and this is delightful. This decline is also due to the fact that we are still sustainable, albeit with little, every year we decrease. In this graph, I would just like to point out the trend in 2018 of strengthening the number of scientific publications that are in the highest first quarter of the world's databases. Compare them with 2016 and 2017 and you will see that the percentage of those in the first quarter has increased from 28 to 36%, which, as I said, is a sign of increasing the quality of research, which is our primary task. Here's the picture in our country. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, as you can see from this slide, continues to be the scientific organization that produces more than half of the scientific publications in Bulgaria, which are visible in the world databases, followed by our colleagues from several universities, which are given here. I think this is again characteristic of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. We are about a quarter of all scientists in Bulgaria and with this even less than a quarter, as you can see, we produce more than half of the country's scientific production. When it comes to science, scientists always give the so-called cytotyrosity, because it is a sign of how other scientists around the world perceive our results. As you can see in this graph, which is related to the quotations, we have a steady increase in the recent years of the citirography of publications by scientists from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which is once again a sign of recognition by the world scientific community to our results. The second pillar I want to discuss with you is our project activity. We have always said that for us projects are a priority and the activity of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences in this area is extremely great, as you will see on the next slides. On this graph you see our project activity as a number of projects. The first three pillars are for the Science Research Fund, the second three pillars are from other sources from Bulgaria and the third group of three pillars is from abroad. There is an increase last year's total number is somewhere over 1700 projects in the number of projects in recent years, sustainable, I would say, is seeing this thing. I think this number is impressive, given that we are not as much as you will see in a moment, for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. The project activity on this chart last year brought us an additional 55.5 million. There are some sustainabilitys from time to time there are small differences in the last four or five years, but this is due to the fact that sometimes there are years when funding comes on a given project more massively, and in the following years there is none. Last year was very successful, as you can see, because 55.5 million of projects are very few. About the successes of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences in the field of project activity speaks of the fact that in the competition under the Operational Program "Science and Education" we received results in which we are leading in two of the four centers for excellence and we are in the section "Centres for competence" and we are also leading in two of the centers. At the same time, we have an extremely active participation in all other projects - both centres of excellence and centres of competence. They are in modern areas, such as mechatronics and clean technologies, informatics and information and communication technologies, a healthy life industry and biotechnologies, and again... informatics and information and communication technologies. On this graph I will not dwell very closely on it shows the success rate in the Fund of Research in various sciences. I would just point out that we have an extremely high overall success rate, which is about 60%, something that is actually impressive as a result. Let us now affect our participation in European programmes. In general, I would point out that in the Programme of Horizon 2020, it has not finished yet, but we have had a lot of success. Last year, 10 new contracts were signed, worth over 2 million. BGN, thus the total number of contracts rose to 66. In 2018, I would like to point out that the most active participation was with regard to the Structural Funds of the European Union. There is some reduction if we compare with the previous programme that preceded Horizon 2020. Here I would especially like to draw attention to the fact that Bulgaria's success as a whole is not very good in this programme and I would turn to you as MPs to do everything possible because for the next programming period special measures should be adopted in relation not only to our country, but also to those 13 countries that are less represented in order to improve their participation in European scientific programmes. On this graph you see our main sources of funding on the projects that are in the additional scientific projects that are outside the budget subsidy. As you can see, one large part comes from ministries and offices, another comes from the lv. From abroad, too, we have a significant success, as I mentioned to you, over 11 million. lv. come from abroad, of which, according to the programmes from the European Union comes about 42%, from other organizations lv. from projects with commercial companies that are abroad. I think this shows that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is also a valuable partner for companies from abroad. Now how does the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences fit into the European Research Area as well as into the world? I would say that we are a valuable and practically sought-after partner from a number of organizations from around the world. The next few slides are given a sample, according to us, of the most important projects we have internationally, and I will not be able to list them all because I do not want to take up too much time, but I would like to mention that the range of these projects is extremely wide and practically covers all areas of research that take place at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Starting with information and communication technologies, going through physics, nuclear energy, metal science, chemical science projects, new materials, new technologies, nanosciences, biology, biomedicine, geology, geophysics, space research. Our institute continues to be a very strong institute that works in the field of space research, a sought-after partner with an extension of its international cooperation, but also in the field of humanities and social sciences, and in literature, and in the field of archaeology, philosophy, sociological sciences, of demographic sciences. That is to say, as an attitude towards international cooperation, our participation is extremely active and we are a sought-after partner, because in all these projects that have been listed here, we are a partner with other scientific organisations from Europe and from the rest of the world. The third pillar, which is related to our expertise because the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, carrying out high-level research, forms specialists who are able to give expert opinions to state institutions in different areas. I'll mention the latest achievements. In the past year, as you know, following the National Strategy for Research Development, the Ministry of Education and Science announced about a dozen national programmes that are related to expanding problems requiring research with great public interest. We have actively participated in the preparation of these programmes and helped the Ministry of Education and Science in their development, and I would like to say that in four of them, which are related to low-carbon energy and transport for everyday life, innovative and low-toxic biological active means, environmental protection, young scientists, post-doctorals, we are a leading organization, and in another five we are a major partner. They are linked again to important, as I said, issues of great public importance in the field of information and communication technologies, healthy food, cultural and historical heritage, e-health and biotechnology. With regard to patent activity, let me just mention as numbers that we have registered 48 inventions that have patents and 12 useful models, respectively, which have the potential to also become patent inventions. Let me now refer to an extremely important question, and this is what is the state of human scientific potential in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, because, as you know, without this potential there will, of course, be no activity, no infrastructure whatsoever. First, I'll start with the young. We are one of the organizations that has the right to train PhD students, and this is what we do with success, as you will see on the next slide in almost all areas of science using modern methodologies and approaches. This is one of our training activities. The second thing I would like to mention is that we are extremely attractive with our unique infrastructure and with the scientists we have for young people, I mean students, because the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is an absolute champion in terms of the problem of student practices. Over 2,600 students in this program have passed through the institutes of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, taking advantage, as I said, of the unique equipment and the scientific potential of our colleagues. As you can see, the other organizations are very much behind us in this regard. This shows our potential for training young people. We also have a significant presence in the field of education in schools. I will focus on just one accent, I will not have time to dwell on all activities related to school education. This is our student institute at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which enables students with an interest in the research profession, as well as, of course, who have an affinity for creativity, as you will soon see, to present their projects to a competent jury and accordingly to be evaluated. What is pleasant and I want to share with you from last year is that in addition to traditional natural sciences, it has expanded to social science. Since last year there are also participants in the field of art and art, which gives a particular color to our student institute. With regard to the PhD students, I will return again. We registered a certain decline in 2017. Now things in 2018 are coming to their normal state or going up to defend more than 110 PhD students, and here on this chart you can see their distribution in different sciences. This becomes an extremely important element of our work, and not only with us, but also in higher schools. Here again I would like to appeal to you to make so that the scholarships of our young fellow doctoral students and regular PhD students will be greatly increased. Now, there are steps in this regard in the Ministry of Education and Science, by decree of the Council of Ministers were given additions to the scholarships, but formally they have not yet been increased, but in order to attract PhD students, they still have to have the opportunity to have a scholarship that corresponds to the economic condition of the country. This picture shows the age structure of scientists who last year were just over 2700. As you can see on the graph, which in some sense we define as a two-legged camel is worrying because after six, seven years the right part that you see the last three pillars, these are colleagues that I suppose will retire and you see that we are starting to stay with critically few scientists to lead our young colleagues. The appeal here again is, several times I will send it to you, to form a sustainable policy for the development of scientific potential not only in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, I will emphasise, but also for higher schools. I'm showing you what the picture is with us, and it's disturbing. The average age is high, and this part, which, as I said, is on the right, is six or seven years from now, will be colleagues who will be outside our structure. Let me finally say a few words before I go to the dry numbers of finance, that we are still one of the spiritual centers of Bulgaria. You are our neighbors here, and I suppose you often see that practically every day in our building there is some, let's call it, an event or event rather, which is of a character associated with culture, art, spirituality. I will not list you everything we have done, but we are an organization that marks a number of anniversaries of our worthy members and a number of distinguished Bulgarians both in the field of science and in the field of art, culture, statesmen, public figures. Here are some of the anniversaries we celebrated last year. You know that we have interesting things to show a number of exhibitions being organized. You know that we have four museums that are impressive, three of which are here at the Archaeological Center, the Entographic, the Natural History Museum, so it boils active cultural and spiritual life in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. We are doing exhibitions abroad to show Bulgaria's achievements in the field of science and culture. I suppose most of you certainly know, but still to say that our fellow countryman, famous climber, Boyan Petrov, was also a colleague of ours. For more than twenty years he worked at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and last year we presented his scientific work because the unique collection which was obtained during his expeditions, colleagues from the Natural History Museum will have to process it for a long time until classified it, but it is truly unique. So we were able to see this side of Boyan Petrov's life, which last year, as you know, remained under one of the eight thousand men. Let me now say a few words about the part that relates to our subsidy and revenues. On this chart you see the subsidy of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for the period 2013 - 2018. When I say subsidy, I mean the budget that you vote in plenary, plus the additional funds that are being transferred by the ministries. For this year, which you see, the year 2018, there was an additional 15 million. BGN granted by the government, a substantial increase in 2017 but, as you will see later, is still insufficient. It is also important to see the graph that shows our common receipts. Here is the subsidy plus everything we find ourselves under projects and contracts. As you can see, the subsidy is about 60%, the rest is about 40%. This trend has been sustainable in recent years. Our total budget last year was over 160 million. lv. At 99.5 million subsidy and 60 to 40 subsidy own revenue. It's more interesting to see here for a longer period of time what the condition is. As you will see in blue, from 2008 to 2018 the subsidy is given, that is, I repeat, we receive as a budget voted by the National Assembly, plus additional transfers from ministries, and in yellow are our own revenues. I'll make two points. First, this ratio 60 to 40 practically exists everywhere, with small punctuations somewhere, as you will see in 2012 was almost almost equal. It is more important to note that by increasing the subsidy, almost everywhere the own revenues are also increasing. That is to say, for every lev invested by the state we find more "If you put more money into the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, we therefore find more money further. It is very important to know to know that when you vote on a budget, it effectively contributes to finding additional funds. The third thing I want to point out is important. See that 2018 is the first year after 2008 and 2009, in which we have a larger budget. In all these years after 2009 to 2017, we have had a smaller budget than 2008 and 2019 on a smaller subsidy and therefore less revenue, which shows that we are still in a situation of underfinancing because in 10 years you imagine what happened, how the economic situation in Bulgaria changed... the minimum wage, the average salary. This is an important element to note, although for this year and last year we received more than in 2008 and 2009, however the underfinancing trend was until 2017 and further measures need to be taken in order to pick up this lag that has been received. I must tell you how the subsidy is distributed, because here is the budget that you are voting on as MPs. As you can see, this has been traditional in recent years, and this is no longer very good at over 66% actually for salaries, and much less remains, we have many other activities, much of which we cover with our own resources, especially in the field of infrastructure, research, capital construction, as you will see later. With regard to capital construction, the picture has not changed either. In recent years, all of our capital construction costs have come from own revenues. I think it may already be time to think about how and the state can help this part, because if, in infrastructure related to scientific equipment, we can find funds by programme and do so, and we can say that we can handle it ourselves as far as the capital construction related to building support is concerned, we cannot find other funds. If the state does not assist us in this regard, of course, with our help, too, we will not be able to cope with the building fund that we have that needs serious investment to improve. For now, we only perform emergency and ongoing repairs to just maintain it. What conclusions can be drawn, as I have presented to you, in a brief summary? First, in terms of our scientific production. We can note that we have high quality production because we are significantly above average in terms of our best-quality scientific publications. As I mentioned, 36% is in the first category of our publications, which are in the world databases. We have extremely high achievements when it comes to being champions. It's not a little bit that, although the number seems a little.26, we have 26 publications that come first, so to speak, to be champions in the respective areas. We have, of course, sustainability and therefore I will not talk about this h-index, because it will take a little time to explain to you, but this indicator shows that we have sustainability in this respect. Of course, let me point out that we also have patent activity. Maybe we're the science organization with the most patents. We haven't compared ourselves to others, but I'm sure we have the most patents in the last year. One thing I would like to point out is that we are aware of our responsibility that we are a scientific organisation that teaches only PhD students, that is, compared to our colleagues from higher schools, we do not have such a great pedagogical workload, and that is why I would like to point out that when we discussed in our general assembly the Rules for acquiring scientific degrees and academic positions as a result of the Regulations, which was adopted by the Ministry of Education and Science, in the part where new national criteria for growth were adopted, we have increased our criteria compared to national in all sciences, I repeat, knowing our responsibility that we are still researchers, we have no pedagogical workload, and in this sense our criteria for growth must be With regard to the second pillar, the project funding. I'm going to mention a few key facts again. Extremely high success rate at the national level of 60%. Our successes in the party program "Science and education for smart growth" as I mentioned, in two centres of excellence we are a leading organization and in two centres of competence. Again in implementation of the National Strategy for the Development of Research of the Republic of Bulgaria, as I mentioned, the Council of Ministers approved national scientific programmes, in four of which we are the leading organization, and in five we are the main partner. In the part of Horizon 2020, that is to say, our project activity, with regard to the European programmes, we are re-emphasizing 10 new contracts, as I mentioned, with their total number rising to 66 to a value of more than 15 million. lv. I will not say that there was a difficult moment last year, this is unprecedented in our new history, an institute wanted to leave the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the main reason for its discontent was its insufficient funding. Of course, in the area of climate, atmosphere and air we cannot remain without a research unit in this area, so we have also created a new unit that will deal with research in this area. What do we have in 2019? When I say it's coming, we're already doing it. As I told you, it is 150 years since the establishment of the Bulgarian Book Society, which is the predecessor of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. There will, of course, be a number of activities, and celebrations, and events that have started since the beginning of the year, are running even now. The culmination will be on October 12th when we will celebrate the very day on which the Bulgarian Book Society was created. Here I want to open a clamp and say that we are trying to link it to what I told you during the survey that a large part of the Bulgarian society believes that science should be a priority, we are trying, we will continue to continue, not just this year, to convince society, all of you that science should become a priority. Science, research, innovation should become a priority equal to education in Bulgaria. The other thing I will mention, and what in recent years has been our constant concern, is that we will continue with our efforts to improve the quality of research. We do this by introducing a number of criteria and a competitive principle. I would like to emphasise specifically to you that the budget of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which you are voting on, a part of it is allocated by criteria related to our work, scientific, in the field of projects, as well as in the field of expert work. So every lev that is given additionally, know that it is distributed not only equally, as I have heard in a number of places to say, but by certain criteria that are related to the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. And, of course, an activity that is extremely important, which we are also strengthening in recent years, this is promoting our results among the wide Bulgarian public. One thing that is not yet at the level we want is to activate our relations with the business, for which, of course, our participation in the centres of excellence and the centres of competence will help especially now because they are related to our strategy for intelligent specialization. So with these centers, as well as our national academic network, which we have across the country, we will help develop this process. Expert potential is, of course, something permanent that is in the service of the state. We are ready in any form to provide expert opinions to our specialists in relation to important issues of Bulgarian society. Young scientists remain our priority this year. I hope, and with your help, the interest of young scientists in science will be strengthened because, believe me, we need young recruits to continue our work. Last but not least, our relations with higher schools and joint activities are extremely good at this time. With all leading universities we have joint work and this thing will continue in the future in the centres of competence and in the centres of excellence and in the national scientific programmes. Basically, I'm going to end up with a few sentences that reflect the essence of the Father I've provided you with. You have seen from what I have laid out as data that we are the leading scientific center in Bulgaria. As I mentioned, with about a quarter or even less of the scientists we produce more than half of the scientific production in Bulgaria. These scientific achievements are at an extremely high, global level, according to the database, which are global and reflect scientific achievements worldwide. You have seen that all this has been done in the last ten years during a continuing failure to finance the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. I hope that the trend, which was launched last year, of a significant increase in the subsidy of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, will continue further. However, we hold high the bar for the academic growth of researchers, as you have seen, so that it can be preserved as one of the most magnificent universal temples of the Bulgarian science, if I should quote Professor Marin Drinov again. Times remain difficult, I would like to stress this, there is still a lot to do, although, as I have mentioned to you several times, we are quite successful in attracting funds for scientific infrastructure. In this regard, things have improved. It is now time with joint efforts to improve the state of human potential. In fact, with the conclusion that is on this slide, I would like to appeal to you again that one of the most important problems not only for us, for all science in Bulgaria I mean in higher schools, and for the country as a whole, is the reproduction of the scientific potential of Bulgaria. We have always said that we consider the existence of high-quality scientific potential in a country as part of national security. We all need such scientific potential because, when the time comes and it is necessary for some new technology to be transferred to Bulgaria, new knowledge to be transferred, at this time we need high quality scientific potential. And we still don't have a full vision, and above all, we don't have a sustainable funding programme for scientists, and low is the social status of researchers, as you've seen from the age chart, the exit from the system of highly qualified scientists due to age. And last but not least, it's still very strong, as it is modern to say, brain drain we cook young people, prepare them at a high level and then leave the country. So my appeal to you as MPs, because you depend on almost all of these things, after starting with the Strategy that you adopted in 2017, which is a very good start, it was updated, let us go ahead and restore the quality and dignity of Bulgarian scientists. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs, this was the Annual Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which we are about to discuss. I'm opening the debate. Professor Stanilov asked for the floor. You have the floor, Mr. Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u29	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mr. Chairman of the Academy of Sciences! The legislative order in which the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences' report is dealt with in the National Assembly was proposed by me and adopted with full unanimity years ago by the National Assembly. This was done with the intention that by examining it the National Assembly, considering these reports, will pay more attention to the knowledge in Bulgaria, which has been viewed with certain negativity since the change. Many times I have come out here before you, not only when reporting is discussed, when there is a discussion of legislation related to knowledge, science, to say that in Bulgaria knowledge is not placed at the necessary public level. I recently read an American analyst who claimed that a delusion reigns in the world society, that the economy drives life, he says. The economy does not move life, and life moves it knowledge and everything depends on knowledge, the economy only takes advantage of its achievements. Because if the English hadn't invented the steam machine in the 13th century, capitalism wouldn't be developed in this state today and humanity wouldn't be what it is. According to the report of the Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. These reports point to the positive that is at the Academy and the negative is at the back of the agenda. This is also partly correct and justified, but I would like to address only one single question about this report: it is also about salaries and money. Many times I have come out of here to call for repairs, to raise the salaries of scientists, to compare with Western scientific organizations, to carry documentation and read it from the platform when it was GERB's second term, not the first, to read to the Finance Minister, for example, in Germany in the Max Planck Group, how science is financed. Usually abroad, this is 80 " 85% state subsidy," 10% are the projects and 5% is the private business. This is a sustainable number, but in our country, as you can see, the work is distorted. But that's not my question. The point is that we are going back to the young scientists, as I continue to work at the National Archaeological Institute at BAS, which is the oldest research organization in Bulgaria, and if you ask the President now, he will say that it is a successful institute, one of the successful institutes of the Academy I have two PhD students, I participated in the jury for admission of PhD students. What the President said is true that the quality is beginning to rise, but it is still very unsatisfactory and the reason is not in the scholarships, in the money that the PhD students receive, but in the perspective that our country offers them. Now, with this programme, which the President mentioned and envisaged an increase in doctoral and postdoctoral money, they are somewhere from BGN 1000 to BGN 1500, which compared to the rest and so far is quite a large amount, however, the following question is asked why I say that the whole work is distorted, the whole policy and practice are distorted: this doctoral student who went against this money and received it three years by becoming chief assistant instead of BGN 1500. He's gonna get £750. So he will not go to his doctorate, but he will go abroad to go there, because when he looks at the classification of the institute, he will see that when he becomes a professor he will receive 800 BGN, that is to say half of what he received as a postdoctorate, and he will still not do, and that is why the quality of the people we take as doctors is not high and soon cannot be so high. This has to be fixed. In the Commission, many times I have spoken to the Minister, with his deputies, and there will be no real increase and real pay at the Academy of Sciences until a classifier is made. I don't know if everyone knows what that means. A general classification of research science in Bulgaria can be made and can apply both to universities and to the Academy. Talking to the Deputy Minister, who is responsible for science, we were recently dealing with each other again, she claims that such a classifier is working. So far, I have no particular real observations that something is being done on this issue, and on what basis is being done is another matter, but I say that without a classificationer nothing will happen, so the pay of the scientists at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is extremely insufficient. Science cannot develop without footage, which, according to a wise man, has decided everything, and if we do not take measures in the coming years and we do not stop treating scientific science in this way that we are treating now, all efforts will be in vain "will continue to say that the economy is moving the world while the world is driving it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u30	Thank you, dear Mr. Professor. Are there any lines? I don't see any requests. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Tsonkov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable academic Revalski! We from BSP for Bulgaria will support the Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2018 and we would like to congratulate in your person the management of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, as well as the entire scientific community of the Academy, the achieved scientific achievements and results in 2018. They are significant against the background of the science that is being done in Bulgaria and the state of the Bulgarian state. The adopted Strategy for the Development of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences until 2030 shows that you have willpower, desire for development, thought for the future in the context of the socio-economic development of the state, all the more so that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is the main spiritual and largest scientific center in Bulgaria. This is also shown by the data presented in the Report. More than 50% of all visible scientific production in Bulgaria, which is visible to the European scientific community, was produced in your own place at the Academy. Of course, here I would also point out a coefficient, an indicator that is important.. the ratio of invested funds for science and what is their return, and according to my data the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences has a high coefficient, which shows a high degree of scientific efficiency, in this case the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. These results, without denigrating them, can be much greater, given the potential of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, and they are mainly due to the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Here my disappointment comes from not seeing the attitude of the government to the development of science, to the development of research, which is important. We need to strengthen the relationship state and system of science, business research, which, unfortunately, we do not see yet to be done. We do not see anything else that is important and is written in the Strategy for the Development of Research, which is related to the way science and research are financed, the main competition principle, the main European funding and much less national, European projects, and here the government of the state must play a major role in the development of science and hence for the economic development of Bulgaria. I can therefore safely say that, in fact, the policy of current governance in the field of science and research shows a high degree of hypocrisy, because in recent years, we are rather seeing a reduction in the costs of science from gross domestic product, which is minimal We know that when we talk about fundamental, applied research, it takes time and a period of three or four years to invest in these researches to achieve good scientific results and to make a scientific breakthrough. This is the place of the state and of the business, of course, to help this process, and we don't see that. Once we have the result done, the return is in favor of both the state and the business. That is why I say that we cannot expect only by European means to develop at a very high level, albeit with all the conventions, science. I would like to take your words into consideration for what you have stressed that education is inextricably related to science, but the recently adopted priorities for the socio-economic development of Bulgaria show something different, because in these priorities and analysis, which has been done before, it is said that students in the educational system should mainly develop skills. You tell me: how are we going to do, how are we going to create young scientists and stimulate them to develop, how are we going to do science when we're only developing skills? And knowledge is very important and it's about skill, and you have to go hand in hand. And in that order of thought, of course, I cannot miss the question of the age structure of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and about stimulating young scientists, attracting young scientists. In recent years, we have seen that due to underfinancing, underevaluation of science, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is difficult to contain young scientists, even more with the low remuneration they receive in the context of the Bulgarian labour market and not to mention in the context of the common European scientific area. All this also depends on the rule of the state, unfortunately, when we talk about young scientists. Yeah, well, here I can still commend the department for releasing $2 million. lv. on the program to assist young scientists at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, but this is a piece of work. We do not have a policy for a comprehensive solution to the problems we are currently discussing, we do not have a clear strategy in which to see the state to support more the development of science, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the development of research. And although the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences operates in the context of very high competition in the context of the European scientific space, you still have very good results, but this is not enough to keep highly qualified personnel. As a result of all this, it can be concluded that due to the active absence of the state and the lack of putting science as a strategic priority related to the economic development of the state, BAS achieved high scientific results in 2018, but under-financing conditions, under conditions of leaking highly qualified personnel and, of course, under-evaluation of the expert work of scientists. We from the BSP for Bulgaria and again I say we will support the Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2018, but we appeal to the management of the state, to the majority responsible to change the attitude towards science, to research only this way Bulgaria can be saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u32	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u33	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, honourable academicist Revalski! From your report we have all understood, and this is an undisputed fact that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is the largest scientific center in the country not only with potential but also with modern and modern infrastructure available. The activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences are highly appreciated by the public according to a national representative survey conducted in the period May "June 2018. The Bulgarian citizens appreciate the leading role of the Academy as a Research Center " 67,9%, but it also takes a worthy place as an expert advisory center " 52,6%." More than two thirds of the respondents share the thesis that the achievements of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences are a reason for pride and national self-esteem over 68%. One of the most significant problems the colleague before me spoke about is a problem not only in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, but also for the country as a whole and is the reproduction of the scientific potential of Bulgaria. The attraction and retention of young scientists by including them in attractive scientific projects and providing perspective is the leading goal for the years ahead. That is what you said in the conclusions and in the guidelines for the development of the Academy for the following years. A study on the problems among young scientists highlights five main barriers: the lack of mentors with modern understandings; the difficult publication of scientific articles; the lack of clarity what is expected of young scientists; the lack of clarity on how to make business out of the results received; and the lack of collaboration with other fellow scientists. The lack of funding, insufficient promotion of scientific achievements and projects in Bulgaria, and the poor public positioning of researchers at all are also being posed as problems. It is not for ignoring and self-esteem, as young scientists do not appreciate their own successes. Thinking about the perspectives in science's development, a very important aspect that needs to be highlighted is the change of generations and encouraging young people from school to engage in science. A successful model for this, a project of Academician Petar Kenderov, is the Student Institute of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which enables students with an interest in the research profession, as well as with an affinity for creativity, to present their projects to a scientific jury and audience. Thus, from an early school age, skills and experience are acquired to collect and analyze facts, situations, phenomena, guidance and assessments are obtained from a specialist for the results achieved. Students present their achievements during a two-day event of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. In 2018, the Fifth Jubilee Session of the Student Institute was also included in the National calendar of the Ministry of Education and Science. The student institute assists in conducting regular consultations with the specialists of BAS on the topics of research. A new moment for 2018 was the inclusion of art and art in the areas where students can present their projects. The year, which we report, took part students from 15 cities from Blagoevgrad, Burgas, Varna, Veliko Tarnovo, Varshets, Valchi dol, Gotse Delchev, Gabrovo, Kardzhali, Montana, Pravets, Plovdiv, Sofia, Ruse and Yambol in the session of the Student Institute of BAS. Scientists from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, university lecturers, recognized specialists in their scientific field, representatives of the business, management of companies for the production of innovative equipment have volunteered to assist the teams with students. The winners at the Fifth Session of the Student Institute of BAS received numerous awards and special diplomas. Since I have a personal addiction to mathematics, and as a Member of the National Assembly from Varna, I will list the awarded students from Varna for the last year. These students are students of the Mathematical High School and two of them are included in the Summer Research School of Mathematics at the University of Massachusetts. If we sum up the negative conclusion is that relatively few people today are interested in science, which is a significant risk in the coming years, the human potential in science to decline sharply, and thus the general education and awareness of people, which in turn leads to a reduction of support for the development of science. The positive conclusion is that optimism for the future gives us scientific centers, centres of excellence and institutes such as the one I talked about, namely: The Student Institute of BAS with its proven prestige in Bulgarian society. It is undeniable that everything we do must be shared in order to monitor the overall progress and activity of young people, Bulgarian scientists and thus give an objective assessment of our country's scientific potential. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I don't see any requests. I am closing the discussions on the report under discussion. I will introduce you to the draft decision that we are about to vote on: Project! DECISION On the Annual Activity Report of the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2018 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 3, para. 3 of the Law on the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report on the Activity of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2018 There's a vote coming up. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. They voted 133 MPs: 131, none, abstention 2. The proposed draft decision has been adopted. Thank you, Mr. Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Congratulations on that. Congratulations to everyone whose activity and work is reflected by the Decision in the report that has just been adopted. Thank you. [[Applause.]] Honourable Members of Parliament, we have yet to meet and adopt a decision on another report on that of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory. I interrupt this session for 30 minutes, and then we will proceed to the review of the Report. We'll continue our work at 11.10. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u35	Dear Members of Parliament, we continue with the next item on the agenda: COMMISSION'S ENERGY AND WATER REGULATION REPORT 2018 The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is the importer. Mr. Boychev, come in with the Energy Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u36	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber the following persons: Ivan Ivanov. Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, Evgenia Haritonova... [[Noise and lines.]] ♪ I can't believe on the activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for 2018, No 920-00-10, submitted by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on 28 March 2019. At its regular meeting on 29 May 2019, the Energy Commission examined and voted on a report on the Commission's energy and water regulation activities for 2018, No 920-00-10, submitted by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on 28 March 2019. The meeting was attended by: Associate Professor Dr. Ivan Ivanov; Mrs. Evgenia Haritonova, Mrs. Georgi Zlatev, Mr. Remzi Osman, Mr. Alexander Yordanov, Mr. Vladko Vladimirov, Mr. Dimitar Kochkov and Mrs. Penka Trendafilova, Members; Mr. Plamen Mladenovski, Director of the Central Regulation and Licences Directorate and Mr. Ivaylo Kaschiev. The report was presented by Mr. Ivanov, who said that in the past 2018, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission conducted a regulatory policy aimed at supporting the joint efforts of state institutions to speed up the implementation of reforms in Bulgarian energy. The main focus of the efforts of the regulator was the stimulation of further liberalisation of the electricity market and the development of the exchange trade in electricity, the creation of prerequisites for regional connectivity of the electricity and natural gas markets and in the perspective of the involvement and active participation of our country in the integrated European energy market. In the energy and water regulation sector, in 2018, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission defined successive premiums for electricity from renewable sources and from the VECP produced by plants with a total installed electricity capacity of 4 MW and more than 4 MW, estimated market price per producer group, depending on the primary energy source, as well as an estimated market price for the technology costs of the transmission network operator and electricity distribution network operators. The amendments to the Energy Act and the Renewable Energy Act in 2018 also imposed a change in the regulatory framework and in this regard the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission adopted amendments to Regulation No 1 on the regulation of electricity prices and the rules on electricity trading. In order to achieve cross-border connectivity, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the Hellenic Republic's Energy Regulatory Authority, the RAE adopted a joint Decision on an Agreement on Cross-border Expenditure Allocation for a Project of General Interest lv. the Connecting Europe Facility. In order to achieve national synchronization with European legislation, the Commission also adopted decisions on the implementation of the regulations and network codes of the single European electricity market. With the amendments to the Energy Act implementing the European Regulation REMIT, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has gained new powers to monitor and control the exchange trade in electricity. They shall open the possibility for the regulator to conduct investigations of transactions on the energy exchange in order to ensure transparency and integrity of the market and, in cases of proven manipulations, to impose effective sanctions against market participants. In this regard, the Commission has taken action to establish a specialised administrative unit of experts and is about to deliver and integrate specialized software to monitor stock transactions. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission fulfilled its commitments in 2018 to adopt the necessary regulatory framework in order to create conditions for competitiveness and liberalization of the Bulgarian natural gas market as part of the market in the European Union and in Eastern Europe, to open the national gas market and to ensure access to it for all participants. In connection with the amendment of the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2020, including a concept for the construction of a gas distribution centre "Hub," in our country the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission adopted a decision approving the documentation for conducting the engaging phase 3 of the Open season procedure for the project for development and extension of the "Bulgartransgaz" system from the Bulgarian-Turkish border to the Bulgarian-Serbian border. The Bulgarian regulator contributed to the creation of a regional gas market through the construction and commissioning of infrastructure projects in the region. In this regard, the Commission adopted a final joint decision with the Energy Regulatory Authority of Greece and granted temporary release to the Interconnector Greece JSC from the requirements of Directive 2009/73/EC and of the Council of 13 July 2009 on common rules for the internal market in natural gas. The Commission in 2018 provided regulatory support for delayed water sector reforms to achieve the European quality of water services provided. The regulator carried out a large-scale and complex work on the analysis of the 5 year business plans submitted by the water operators for the regulatory period 2017 - 2021. Over the past year business plans and prices of services of 11 water companies were approved. With this, the total number of companies with approved business plans reached 27, covering more than 77% of the country's population. In compliance with the regulatory requirements, the regulator shall apply pricing based on the implementation of the imposed 29 quality indicators of the water services and strict reporting of the threshold of social tolerability of prices. The business plans of the water operators concerned were necessarily approved by the relevant municipal councils and the Association for Water and only after that were discussed by the Commission. Many of the business plans were repeatedly returned for processing and, at the KEWRC's insistence, all economically unjustified costs were dropped, allowing the regulator to limit the price increase of services. Taking into account the importance of working with citizens' complaints and in order to improve access to information and ease the submission of applications, KEWRC developed and implemented a dedicated Single portal for providing information and services in 2018. It provides users with 24-hour electronic access to administrative services, including complaints and requests for access to public information, verification of the status of the complaint lodged, access to public registers of licences and contracts, etc. In the implementation of measures to alleviate the administrative burden on businesses, the Single Portal enables companies to submit applications for issuing, amending and suspending licences and the water operators can submit their required reporting data. Active international cooperation during the year in bilateral contacts with energy and water regulators and participation in European and regional forums showed the increased international authority of the KEWRC. The implementation of the programmes under existing co-operation agreements with the regulators of Romania, Albania, Kosovo, Greece, Macedonia, Montenegro, Georgia, Turkey and Serbia continued. In May the KEWRC hosted the 15th meeting of the General Assembly of the Water Regulators Network in Europe (WAREG) with the participation of water regulators from 22 countries. In order to expand multilateral cooperation in the region, the KEWRC has launched an initiative to establish a Regional Forum of Regulators from the Balkans as a permanent platform for the exchange of regulatory practices and harmonisation of regulatory frameworks for member states. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held which ended with the following results: 10 votes for.... 5 votes against............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As a result of the discussion and subsequent vote, the Energy Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision adopting the Commission's Energy and Water Regulatory Report for 2018, No 920-00-9, submitted by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on 28 May 2019: Project! DECISION on the 2018 Energy and Water Regulatory Commission Activity Report The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 10, para. 3 of the Energy Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission's Activity Report 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u37	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u38	Mr. President, I ask you to put to the vote for admission in the hall of the following persons: Mr. Ivan Ivanov. Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, Mrs. Evgenia Haritonova Member, Vladko Dimitrov Member, Penka Trendafilova Member, Remzi Osman Member, Alexander Yordanov Member, Georgi Zlatev Member, Dimitar Kochkov Member, and Svetla Todorova Member.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u39	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the members of the Commission to the House. Before we open the debates, I will ask the President of the Commission Mr. Ivanov to present the report. You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In accordance with art. 20, p. 4 of the Energy Act, the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory annually presents by 30 March a report on its activity for the previous year. On this occasion, the Commission, by its decision of 28 March, voted and presented to the National Assembly the 2018 Report. The report, which they read on behalf of the Energy Commission, largely shows in summary our work. I will therefore allow myself to stop your attention on several aspects that I consider the most important of the activities of the KEWRC. Firstly, the Commission devotes much of its efforts, decisions it makes, and regulations to actions relating to the liberalisation of electricity and gas markets. This is an activity that brings us closer to the creation of a united regional market in electricity and natural gas. Secondly, the Commission creates prerequisites with its legislative documents for gradual liberalisation and, above all, diversification of natural gas supplies to the Republic of Bulgaria. In the various segments of our activity, I would briefly like to point out that in the field of electricity in the past year 2018, the National Assembly, that is, you, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, voted on amendments to the Energy Act, which made possible further actions in the area of liberalisation. On this occasion the Commission in its price decisions took out on the free market, and it is currently only the organized stock market in Bulgaria on the Bulgarian independent energy exchange, all electricity producers with four megawatts installed and more than four megawatts. This has increased the liquidity of the Exchange. On the other hand, something that is also very important for the national electricity transmission operator, as well as for the four electricity distribution companies, required all the energy they needed to cover their technological costs to be purchased precisely from the Exchange. The result was that this energy was significantly reduced for technological costs consumed by individual companies. With regard to an important segment, and it is the Commission's price decisions on energy and water regulation, I would point out that, in essence, this activity of the Commission should gradually be dropped in full liberalisation and it will only continue after a few years to set regulated prices for energy vulnerable consumers, which is a requirement of the European Commission and which has been laid down in the directive since 2009. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in its price decisions is always guided by two principles: solutions to be transparent and, secondly, to be balanced because, in order to have a sustainable energy system, energy companies must not be allowed to fail. A possible bankruptcy of companies would lead to catastrophic results for society. The Commission therefore takes into account, to a certain extent, the need to maintain and develop the networks, the services they provide. At the same time, taking into account the level of revenues of Bulgarian citizens, the Commission does not allow sharp price changes for both electricity and natural gas and heat. In today's globalised world, I would like to point out that more and more these prices will depend on non-national factors, and they are also inaccessible. I am referring to the cost of CO2 emissions, which, according to the European Commission's decisions, all energy companies operating on coal and natural gas are obliged to buy a price that has grown nearly five times in a year and a half, and a price that we need to include in the spending part of the budgets of these companies. It shall not also affect the price of the relevant energy for end-users. The other factor, too, is the price of natural gas. It is directly related to the price of oil on the free international markets and its price depends on a number of events outside Bulgaria. Of course, what is happening around Iran, in Venezuela, in Libya and every shock in any of these countries We are therefore obliged to take these changes into account in our decisions. With regard to natural gas, the essential thing that I would like to point out as done during the year is our contribution to legally ensuring the construction of the interconnector with Greece. "Comotini Stara Zagora, an extremely important element of our interconnection, because it will allow Bulgaria to have three independent external suppliers of natural gas. At the same time, due to the drop-out, in fact, already in this year, the timely balancing measures, the Commission is accordingly considering and is currently to vote on changes to the Trade Rules, the Balancing Rules and the Methodology for determining the daily imbalance fee and the balancing neutrality fee. With regard to the water sector. In fulfilling the requirements of the two water regulations and regulation of the water services and the two accompanying regulations, one is particularly important for the quality of water for the Bulgarian consumers. The Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory has already adopted the business plans of 27 water operators, thus covering, with accepted business plans, 77% of the country's population. I know there are reproaches on the fact that there are still water operators whose business plans have not been accepted. The Commission strictly fulfils the requirements of the Law, which is why several of these business plans have been returned to the applicant for appropriate adjustments until it reaches a stage in which they fully comply with the regulatory requirements. And that is why, when these business plans are adopted, they really thank the Commission's experts for energy and water regulation for their expert assistance. With regard to international cooperation. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has bilateral and multilateral contracts with almost all countries in the region of Southeast Europe. This is largely in line with the policy conducted by the Republic of Bulgaria with a view to the Western Balkans. Our co-operation agreements with Serbia, with the Republic of Northern Macedonia, with Albania, with Kosovo, with Montenegro, all those countries that are not members of the European Union allow us to give them the good practices we introduce and to help them implement and harmonise their energy legislation with that of the European Union. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, be assured that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in its decisions, in all its actions, will protect the public interest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Shopov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, what you have exposed, we listen to it every year in this regular but very banal report. Nothing new. And it's what you say, and it's not. But the Bulgarian citizens had to hear from you will electricity prices increase? That's what they care about the most. I say to you: you must not increase because there are no reasons. And if they increase, it will be a matter of unfinished business, of priorities that have not been realized, politicians have not done their job. We must clearly and honestly say that for this not to increase energy prices, there are several things that need to be done, or to strive to do them, or to do them in the years from now. The most important issue, we all know, is to build the new nuclear power at the nuclear power plant at Belene. The government is going to do it, and hopefully it will, which, of course, is still under question. Because we have to tell each other clearly if it doesn't happen, if there isn't a new nuclear power plant, we end up with our last high technology, we become a third-rate state and we go, figuratively speaking, to the monkeys. Second question. It is not so much the question of crossing the interconnector links with Greece through the country, where we will receive the hypothetical liquid gas or gas pipelines that are not connected to anyone. You remember the whole story with "Nabuko" how it ended gloriously. Let's not make any illusions, it's great to find gas on the Bulgarian Black Sea coast, but God knows whether it will happen or not, that's another matter. Through Bulgaria it must go again, as it has been going on so far, a pipeline on which Russian gas can flow, no more, no less, no matter whether it is liked by some geopolitical factors or not. Just as it passed through the North Sea, one, two, and one must pass through Bulgaria to make us significant again, because at the moment we no longer receive what we received for the gas that was passing through Ukraine. The third question. Finally to decide and split this boil, which is the two American power plants that upload, raise the mix and despite 4.3 Here last year, it is the responsibility of the government, we have allowed another leak and another reason for increasing the price of electricity. We need to take into account from now on that electricity prices will go up and for that reason. In water regulation, if we don't throw a few billion leva in the next five to ten years in the construction of facilities to carry and take water to many cities, like Vratsa, I say one of the most hypothetical, the most relevant examples will be in the 21st century, in a European country, continuously on regimes. It's time for this matter to be resolved. The end of the concession period of Sofia Water is beginning to be seen. Hopefully all this drama and this disgrace will be over, started during the reign of so-called democratic forces, smiling prime ministers, as mayors, who are absolutely innocent of crimes committed by the Bulgarian courts, you know what I'm talking about. And no one, the good thing is that they no longer dare, because only until three or four years ago the question was up and on the edge many people in this room do not remember to start concessions and give to our and foreign guests the water by region, to individual cities and villages. Those are the big problems. It'll fill holes, leaks. The price of electricity and energy carriers can not only remain the same, they can be lowered down as long as it is achieved to work on these issues, the other is from Lucavago.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Are there any lines? I won't. You have the floor to speak, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, honourable commissioners, colleagues! Today we are discussing the Commission's Energy and Water Regulatory Report, what was done in 2018. Of course, the Commission is called upon to implement the Energy Act and, in this capacity, I think that they precisely and clearly respected this law. But not only that, they had to achieve some balance of interest. They had to balance the interests of energy actors so that they would not decapitalise, not have any collapse or harmonise and balance the interests of both consumers and suppliers of electricity, of gas, of heat supply, in the water sector even. If I start talking to you about the water sector, because we are all talking about reforms, we want to create some reforms based on the Law that we have all adopted. We note that this reform had to be carried out precisely in the water sector so that European funds could be used, to create these water associations and to break down the water sector. But what are we looking at? We see a great difficulty, resistance in these reforms. The resistance comes from below, comes from interests and we see how hard it is to protect the business plans in the Commission for energy and water regulation, although the Commission is making all the effort and helping to create these business plans, because on this basis and on this basis they will be able to receive the appropriate means of renovating the water structures. The resistance is great, unfortunately hard to go, but still going. Provided that they already account for 77%, I think this is a good percentage based on all the resistance that, even politically, exists. But we don't have another way to go. This infrastructure is completely obsolete and it needs renovation, needs billions of levs to enable consumers to receive a quality service. I welcome that. Of course, dialogue must go along with the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, we are promised some changes or a new law on the water sector that we are waiting for. I hope that this will happen quickly so that we can help all of this happen, that this money will be used and that the quality of the service will, of course, be lifted repeatedly. In the gas sector, thank God, many good things have been done. I do not speak on behalf of the Commission, but on behalf of the government, which encouraged quietly and slowly, but 100% did its job so that we would not be surrounded, to be a transit country. We can already see that it is acting, we have a decision from the day before yesterday of the Bulgartransgaz (Bulgartransgaz) for negotiations with the second participant, because the first was unable to implement all of the legal actions related to the signing of the treaty. We hope that soon the contract will be signed and that this infrastructure will be built, which will lead to the already famous "Balkan Stream" which, as the Prime Minister calls it, will not be surrounded by the gas flows that are yet to be created on the basis of geopolitical interests. But not just that. We're also looking for diversification. We already know the route that is built with Romania, we made a first crack with Komotini, where Bulgaria should connect to the so-called ICGB with Poseidon, so that Bulgaria can receive Azerbaijani gas. We are walking and a company has already been set up that is hub "Balkan" with a platform on which gas will also be traded. So it is yet to come before parliament and the next step to be able to create the conditions precisely for this gas exchange to develop. Of course, it is necessary for the participants in this exchange to be given licences because they do not currently have licences. They can quite freely, as independent companies, trade in some way, not yet regulated in the law, each other gas, not that there are still different amounts of gas in Bulgaria. The largest gas supplier, of course, is Bulgargaz, based on the contract that he made with Gazprom Export. But given all the connections we've listed, given God willing, finding fields in the offshore areas of the Black Sea, we're hoping this gas exchange will work. We expect to have, as Mr. Ivanov said, at least three sources of supply, different routes, which will precisely create an opportunity to say that the gas hub is working hard. This is coming and I think that the Energy Commission should be one of the initiators to regulate all this activity in the Energy Act. We need to use one model.. except for countries that have a well-developed gas market, this model can be, of course, the electric exchange with which we have already had enough experience, and offer it in the development of the model and for the gas exchange, so there will be changes there. From the point of view of market liberalisation, where I would say that Parliament is also the most active participant with its legislation, and where, I think, the whole committee, regardless of the parties that support this particular model and we are going towards it, there is already an increasing need for liberalisation. The last step is to liberalize all participants and producers who are above one megawatt. However, households have to go on a regulated market anyway. Romania is already going pretty hard and has ahead of this step. As of next year, we need to think about whether or not we should make some of the percentage of households go to a liberalised market. When I say percentage of households, I don't mean part of households, and I mean percentage of their accounts. Or the other option, as Mr. Ermenkov said, I will quote it: the other option is a corresponding amount of energy that protects vulnerable energy poor consumers, to be protected at a specific price by the Commission for energy and water regulation, and the amount needed over that to be given from the free market. The other option is that we, if we raise prices, as the KEWRC said in their interim report, by the extent, even below the rate of inflation, ultimately burden the poor people, because the rich take advantage of this cross-subsidisation and burn big houses, pools may and so on, with a low price of electricity. Of course, we must ask for the energy poor to be identified more quickly by the executive. Eventually, to create a fund with which to secure the fluctuations from the free market and the possible higher price on the free market, so that we can protect the energy poor, but all other people have to pay on the market and at the competitive price of the electricity exchange. We need to think about this subject. We protect the energy poor, but others need to go to a free market as quickly as possible, because otherwise through cross-subsidisation, whether the business, whether the energy companies, subsidize them, and this is not a good way and a good model. There are a lot of bold decisions to be made in this Parliament, perhaps in the next, but we must not be afraid of these steps, and we must go hard to the goal that we have set out to complete market liberalisation, to protect people who cannot afford to face the challenges of the free market, to search for energy sources, whether in gas, whether otherwise, to connect with neighbouring countries in a single energy market and to search for new sources of energy based on new technologies and green energies, so that we can protect both surrounding space and our air to be clean for our children. Challenges ahead. I would like to thank the Commission for maintaining harmony, thank God, working without scandals, there are always expectations of them, obviously managed to balance as much as they could, interests, so that there are no extremes, and that they strictly comply with the Energy Act, makes them absolutely independent and sustainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u45	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you are, Dr. Naydenova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u46	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear representatives of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, I would like to share that I will not be pleased with today's report on a personal basis, because in this report I have not heard anything about these water companies that are not consolidated. In 2016, they submitted their business plans in line with the law for 2017 and 2021. Now you are making a 2018 report. Unfortunately, almost all business plans concerning state-owned enterprises, state-owned companies, are being considered, but there are cases for which we have alerts, and for such companies that are not consolidated, that you as a Commission are either returning them or not considering them. You mentioned that one of the reasons you regulate the water market is that you think some of the prices are bloated. I will give an example that this is not true in some exceptions. For example, the Water and Water Department of Troyan has been working at prices since 2013, meaning they have not been changed, but at the same time your Commission finds no time to consider the business plan. I don't mean the salary of BGN 310. It's 520 leva. If this is how you keep things going, you know, the company will just be pressured, and there is already an economic pressure on something that we cannot agree with. It is good that you report 87% coverage of water companies, but you should also think about those that are not yet covered and allow them to work normally. That's why I can't be happy with the report, I'm sorry, despite your high professionalism.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u47	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Are there any lines? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Genov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u48	Dear colleagues! Dear Commission guidance on energy and water regulation, I have reviewed your report in detail. The colleague Nikolov mentioned some things. The colleague has shown a strong dose of local patriotism, shared the problems that the water service Troyan has, but its reproaches should also be addressed to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, not only to you. Here just now Mr. Nikolov said that there was resistance from below for non-happy water reform. Well, Mr. Nikolov, I only have one question: who is the principal of those who resist, who appoints the leading officers in this sector? You said there were different interests. I will complement you, perhaps there are different economic interests in place for this water reform not to happen. For years, we've been talking about a new law on water operators. It's been two years since this new law was so actively promoted. I remember both the former minister and the former deputy minister, we've gathered here, we've discussed, you've had our political support to ensure the social tolerance of the price, we've stated that in these discussions in advance, but somehow more than a year this law somewhere gathers dust. Is it the same economic interests to keep this law on someone's shelf because it's going to be a long time and dust more?! With regard to the funds. Colleague, those who are not in associations can say goodbye to European money. The money from the Operational Programme is only for those who are members of the Water Associations, those who have regional plans. What do I notice about the report? Somehow by no means, Mr. Ivanov, you are becoming an accomplice, as a Commission, in the non-happy water reform. I think you should have a more active position. And it's a lot more active! To say clearly and openly in this report does anyone communicate with you because the reform must make it the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and its management. You're a sidekick and a controller. But you're very aware of what's going to happen in years! We're talking about 10, 12, 14 billion that we need. How much collateral is there on the operational programs? Twenty, thirty percent. No one answers where others will be taken, how, by what mechanism will this funding become? Total silence. And not that what you wrote in the Report is not true, but it is, as Mr. Shopov said, boring, there have been changed numbers from past years, we have listened to these things. Mr. Ivanov, about the water reform, I think you should state a more explicit and clearer position in order to make it clear to both the MPs and the Bulgarian society who and why does not do their job. I think that from our group, most people will refrain from adopting this report and that will be one of the reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u49	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory! My speech will perhaps be a continuation of what Mr Manolov spoke before me, given the report that you have proposed to us by evaluating the report rather than the overall activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. I will start with a comparison that you will probably not like, but, Mr. Ivanov, an independent committee does not mean that the Commission is such that nothing depends on it. True, there is one such tractage of.......................is an independent one that does not depend on anything. It's not like that for you. There are a lot of things that depend on you. And when we talk about regulating public relations, they include not only those who offer services, and those who benefit from these services, they include not only price regulation, they include the overall complex of building these relationships, starting with laws, through implementation, controlling... And in my opinion, in your report, as Mr Shopov said, as has been mentioned by my colleagues, you have been more about statistics, more about what you have done, about how many reports, how many things. 140-page statistics in which, as in that famous film, lost in the translation, we have lost the problems facing the sector. And they are not few in the water sector and in the energy sector! I have here removed your powers under the Energy Act, and I have some questions that I think should be reflected in the report. First, it was just mentioned by Mr. Shopov about the so-called U.S. power plants "TPP-1" and "TPP-3." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: Article 6 21 of the Energy Act on your powers is written that you exercise control, analyze, periodically review and have the right to request an amendment and supplement of pricing mechanisms when they conflict with European Union law and are not in line with European Union policy. In your report, I could not understand what you have done on this issue and in relation to TPP-3. You remember that in 2013, a letter was sent to the European Commission before you in a composition of the Commission, I know that the answer was sent to the Ministry of Finance, but your report does not show what your interest was in the correspondence between the Ministry of Finance and the European Commission and where you are in this whole role! The next thing I would like to draw your attention to, we have even made a special joint meeting of the Energy Commission, the Economic Commission and the Committee on Regional Development and Public Works on the occasion of the so-called Rules for the Accession of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and the insane administrative burden that stands on them. Now, I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. 6 is written down that you define these rules. In my opinion, you should at least mention here what the obstacles to the Commission are so that we can really provide that investment climate and those working conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises so that they can have easy, fast and quality access to energy. I don't see that in your report either. I know this is not a matter for you as much as for legislative changes and changes in the relevant ministries, but your role is to signal as a light. Let's go, let's go, let's go, You remember that just a year ago here, from this tribune, the drama developed. We have adopted amendments to the Energy Act and introduced these amendments. 23a to para. 1 of art. 21 of the Energy Act, as I told you, where it says that you are allowing transactions in the form of an order of shares, not to concern you, here all colleagues have voted it, we know what this is about. As a result of the conversation held then and your almost refusal to comply with the law, because you have no criteria, we have concluded that such criteria must be developed. The Energy Ministry has committed itself to developing these criteria. A year has passed since then, but nothing is happening and this is still not reflected in your report. Excuse me, but CEZ is back on the counter! Tomorrow will come the time when you will still have to give an opinion and you will probably tell us again that because the criteria are not stated, there is nothing you can do. Surely so, but this should be reflected in the report as a problem for your work that needs to be solved. He's gone! We have established rules for you, and we have given you the commitment to control transactions at the independent power exchange. Whether they are transparent or not, but at the end of 2017 there was a problem with the price of electricity, which jumped immensely much on the independent market, although we all convinced that when we have a free market, when we have a market, there the price will be market, low and I don't know what else. Then you said you didn't have any tools. Now you have this toolbox and we understand that you have already organized the administrative part of the implementation of this law. Excuse me, but people are not interested in your administrative part, they are interested in the conclusions, recommendations and what happened on the stock exchange and what you will do in order not to do this and what we, as legislators, need to do in order to guarantee you the necessary tools. He's not in the report! Moreover, I thought that in your report as one of the problems that you will put and the so-called emergence of the new market that we want to do in Bulgaria is the so-called Gas Exchange with the hub Balkani (Balkani) and so on. Who will control the transactions there and whether they will be transparent and whether they will be legal? Mr. Ivanov, it is really one finding of the actions, but a report on the annual activity of an institution should follow the example that you had a moment ago by the President of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to put problems in it, not only statistical results what, how, where and how it was done, but to put those problems that you believe have been identified by you during the period that you need to change and make these proposals to make them. Otherwise, we do have one statistic, one report, and I'm not very sure if Mr. Manolov was right that we would refrain from adopting this report. Rather, I think we will vote against it for its content, for the gaps that have been made. This is the evaluation of the report you're offering us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u52	Mr. Ermenkov, I'm going out not to apostrophe you, but to thank you for everything you've said because you're absolutely right. After your speech and the speakers before you, the National Assembly became like itself. This is the National Assembly now. It really, as Volen Siderov once said, worked neatly, but the work of the National Assembly is here to have a debate. Such a debate would have been on many issues and many things about Bulgaria would have been resolved in another way and not in the one in which they were resolved in your absence. But I appreciate the speech most because it was addressed to Mr. Ivanov not to anyone else, and from this tribune, drawing conclusions, you gave him instructions. Yes, Mr. Ivanov is the most important person in this area in the country. This is institutional, for this is elected not the government, but Mr. Ivanov and the relevant commission. As you have advised him about some things, perhaps I would like to tell him and continue your words. Mr. Ivanov, it is your responsibility to say: in order not to increase the prices of water and energy carriers, the Bulgarian government must do punctually: this, this and this. Otherwise, I don't have the responsibility! Mr. Ivanov was supposed to say: through Bulgaria and to take a position the four pipes of the South Stream should pass, which will beat gas and now, in this year, I would have had about 400 million. Euros! Euros! Not leva! That would have been received as transit fees to block the holes. What holes? Which stem from the US power plants that come and come from the RES to make Bulgaria's electricity cheaper. Mr. Ivanov may say: Make the Burgas pipeline "Alexandroupolis," because there will come tens of millions that will also clog holes - an opportunity that we also missed lightly then, according to supposedly environmental considerations. So according to the environmental considerations, Burgas might not have passed, but they can travel, swim on the Black Sea warships of all countries, outside the countries...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u53	It's accounted for from the time of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u54	So there's something here that doesn't make sense that doesn't make sense. Yes, Mr. Ermenkov, these are the big problems. The other is the details. The report can pass today on the principle as in the barracks a day goes by, a samun dies, a report passed, adopted/unaccepted, about abstention. A lot of impressions the report will not make, but these are the problems. You also outline them, and we all need to outline them in general, Mr. Ivanov to know that he is the person responsible.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u55	That was a first line. The time delay was recorded from the time of the group. Is there a second line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u56	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Shopov, thank you for the assessment that our return to parliament has given him a full look. [[GERB lines.]] I would like to tell you that our leaving Parliament was not a whim, but as a result of this, to preserve parliamentaryism and as a result, that the debates were not heard. [[Replys from the right.]] I'll make the connection, don't worry! We didn't hear each other's arguments, we didn't understand each other's words and we imposed the dictation of numbers, not the dictation of reason. I hope that these three months in which we have been absent have still been useful to the general understanding of what parliamentaryism is, what debate means, what a dispute means and what work means in the interests of people rather than numbers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u57	Thank you. Are there any other statements? Mr. Atalay, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, firstly, to welcome the presence of BSP in this House. Secondly, to congratulate all political formations on participating in the European Parliament elections. Colleagues, two more sentences off the subject. Colleagues from BSP, you just heard Mr. Shopov so passionately welcoming you that when you are here there is a debate and when you are not there, he spoke quite differently. [[Radio.]] Now let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u59	On the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u60	Neither the Gas Hub, nor the four pipes, nor the Nord Stream.Nor Burgas "Alexandroupolis" are the theme today, nor are those investments that should be made in connection with the change in the price of electricity, is the Commission's direct commitment to energy and water regulation. It has an indirect commitment, but it is the government's, parliament's, and then we are already including the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. My fellow Members, I wish I could tell you that your report is good, but I will not be able to tell you. I will ask you, Mr. Ivanov, to take the reports from the previous years and what you present to us at the moment is only in certain figures. Otherwise, the very framework of the reports is not correct in my opinion. Of course, the adoption or non-acceptance of such a report will also give an assessment of your activities. I therefore welcome that all political formations have been able to ensure that this committee is not politicised, competent, qualified. But we have not been able to expand, to enable the Commission to have in numbers, in cash so many commissioners who can prepare the materials for this report not only with findings, but with the relevant conclusions based on what you have done, Mr. Ivanov. In short, not to denigrate you, not to spit on you, but in this report, I could not see, except for a list of facts, to focus on the final effects of the Commission's activities and its decisions. They're missing, Mr. Ivanov! That's why the reports are dry. That's why not a single colleague from here. [[sighs right]] Don't read them. We read them a certain circle of people, we read what happened over the years or during those years when you were chairman of this committee. In this report there is no explanation of how the Commission's decisions have improved the environment, created prerequisites and defined the direction of development of the process of full liberalisation of the electricity market in accordance with the European policies and legislation of the country. There are no conclusions as to how we have introduced the requirements of the Electric and Gas Directive, laws have been adopted, even in 2018 we have amendments. If the requirements have not been fully implemented, why has the Commission not asked for a corresponding amendment and re-fill them? I can list all the things that are missing, but let's stop here so it doesn't turn out that you haven't done anything at all. Just a few sentences in the part of the Electrics. In the Report, you note and impress the Commission's finding that there is a decline in the ecologically clean electricity production and you give the energy from coal power plants by 5.04; of gas by 4.05; of RES by 7.96. And here we ask ourselves the question: which types of RES have reduced production and for what reasons? We don't have an analysis! [[Heckling]] We can also ask the same question with regard to the power plants. For 10 years, we've all been promoting the idea of a low-carbon economy here. I am reading the report and after reading we cannot help but wonder: how will the low-carbon economy develop with the participation of high-carbon energy and what are the Commission's actions on this issue? Which of the Commission's decisions improve the production of electricity, and how do these decisions affect economic sectors and citizens? Because I see that some leaders from the economic sectors have a serious impact on the Commission, as the political formations once had a impact change. [[Heckling]] If that's not the case, you can tell us when you get out. A few words about the power grid. With regard to the ESO, you know that the 10-year plan for the development of the electricity system has been adopted, however, there is now no analysis of the activities carried out by the ESO in accordance with the established plan. In addition to listing projects, you have a common interest in a new intersystem power line and no information has been given on successful or unsuccessful projects on which you have pronounced yourself as the Commission. I'm done with this market. Let me tell you a few words about the stock market and just one number. From the figures here it is clear that the total traded volume of base energy marks an increase of 143% compared to 2017. However, there is no comment why, despite this growth, the traded quantities are significantly lower than the traded underlying quantities on the markets in the region. What do we compare ourselves to, and what do we do? I'm switching to a few sentences about electricity consumption. The report shows what is the market share of electricity distribution companies. A few questions arise, and I'll ask you one or two from here. How does price regulation affect energy companies? Do prices reflect the costs incurred for investments, repairs, emissions and to what extent? My next question is: how have companies reduced their costs as a result of energy efficiency measures? You must remember the last meeting of the Energy Commission on energy efficiency, and then Mr. Nikolov and I decided to get together on a committee and decide what we are doing with energy efficiency, because this year, you know, certain requirements are ending and we should give a corresponding report to which neither you, the Commission, are ready, nor the politicians are ready. I can tell you that the findings and questions about the part of the electricity, energy and energy are also relevant for the part of the part of the energy industry and for natural gas. This time I decided to ask you a few questions about another chapter. It is evident that the Commission has been working on the request you are a scheme. What conclusions has the Commission reached on the basis of the listing and the number of complaints described? Is there a change in the content of complaints against companies compared to the transitional regulatory period or the previous year at least? There is no description of what sanctions the Commission has taken to overcome the negative trend if they are repeated. It is not clear from the report what the damage to customers is and what action the Commission should take to improve the work of companies. Or did you create a system, get the complaints, respond to the complaints, and the caravan walks?! The complaints will still be the same number this year. They'll still be on the same topics, because analyzing, taking measures and no action! [[Heckling]] If there is, let me know! Colleagues, the Commission is useful, the Commission must work, the Commission is the institution that protects politicians from mistakes. However, the Commission requires a much larger number of commissioners in order for the MPs to have such reports on the basis of which we can draw political conclusions on the basis of which to say that the electricity price does not decapitalise TEC-2, the electricity price does not take part of the investment in RES. With the latest amendment you have proposed to us, where you, Mr. Ivanov, know that with the inclusion of the small RES in the free electricity market you have reduced their revenues so much that you will decapitalize them and in the near future they will land before the Council of Ministers to protest before Boyko Borisov. In other words, is the report as good as pages 140 and several? You've done a lot of work. The conclusions are necessary for the political class, for the executive authority.... how and in what way, where to start investment and what to do to improve the income of the population? Because, fellow Members, I will tell you one more sentence: the price of electricity in Bulgaria is not high incomes, the income of the population is low. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u61	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. - What's the line? Mr. Shopov, you have the floor for the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u62	Mr. Atalay, I'm not going to give you a line on the ground. I will not speak on your professional statement. I would like to disprove you at the beginning of my speech that you accused me of having had another behaviour and made a different statement with regard to BSP colleagues. I don't think you did it maliciously. I myself have always been well-intentioned to you, especially to you and to another member of the DPS, he knows who he is at the moment he is not in the Chamber. I always thought you were decent people, unlike many others in your party.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u63	Mr. Shopov, no qualifiers to the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u64	I dedicate it to the fact that you're beating the chivia in your mother tongue. Many of my colleagues will not understand what I mean. It's okay, I take it as a joke and a joke to me. I would like to say here to my colleagues from the BSP that all the time, in all my speeches, in all my actions as a parliamentarians, when you were away, I pleaded that your laws should be passed, that your laws should be dealt with. Everything valuable and good that has derived from them is to become legislation in our parliament. I have regretted many times that you are gone, colleagues from BSP. Many times I have invited you from this tribune to come back and support one or another good cause and to protect the majority of the madness that has been committed in several cases. [[Heckling]] I have always considered, and I believe now that this insane and counterproductive boycott has not only caused severe losses in your party. It has harmed you very much, but for me the more important and more fatal is that it has caused extremely severe damage to Bulgarian parliamentaryism, which we now have to catch up and correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u65	This was essentially a personal explanation, but you took advantage of the replica procedure, so I ask: is there a next line? Mr. Nikolov, come in, and then Mr. Atali will have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Atalay, I would like to address several topics that you have also addressed, as Mr. Shopov said: professionally. As of this year we have 40% more exports of electricity, which shows that in the region we have good prices, i.e. they are competitive on neighbouring markets. On the other hand, we pour money into some of the companies. This means that they are decapitalised, which shows that we subsidise neighbouring countries with cheap electricity, which shows that we must take measures in this direction. We need to take substantial measures. Thank God, with an order based on the Energy Act, the Energy Minister has taken action so that the TPP - Maritsa - East 2 - fill in the quota gap. Thus, at least the energy market is not threatened and allows the TPP to work without losing. There are some difficult solutions ahead, but, of course, we need to work towards reducing the costs of the TPP - Maritsa - East 2 and increasing efficiency - so that we can keep the work of many people who are in this sector. We know that there are 10,000 people directly affected. I have been mentioned and will take advantage of the replica in connection with the water sector. I would comment that even these statements show the political risk that is being created in front of a reform of the water sector. That's the political risk. It is not important who is appointed, it is important that the reform is carried out. Of course, executives also have to do their job. I'm not saving criticism for her, I just need to work harder on this subject. Perhaps it is not wrong for our Commission to provoke such a debate to see how to stimulate, provoke the new law on the water sector and the ways in which companies should be stimulated to make business plans, but before that to make their associations. Mr. Atalay and I had decided to have a discussion. Mr. Atalay, I'm a man of my word. If you want, by the end of next month, you and I can both be pioneers and maybe with other colleagues to provoke the debate on energy efficiency because it's in pain. Unfortunately, the methodologies are not ready yet. The assessment of the money to be invested is also unclear. So we have to provoke. Apparently, parliament is one of the catalysts for implementing faster reforms. Let us be this catalyst and provoke the various institutions that are clearly difficult to harmonise to want this thing. Of course, the deadlines are running. Of course, it is clear who pays at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u67	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Is there a third line? Let me remind you that we are in line to Mr. Atalay's statement. There's no third line. Here you go, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, it's nice when we start having professional debates, then come up with the relevant solutions. To make these decisions, we need serious reports with relevant analyses. That's what I told the KEWRC. As for Mr. Shopov's question, Mr. Shopov, you are a man who is often taken into consideration on the subject as well, but you are politicizing everything. Of course, this must be the tribune from which to politicize everything, but sometimes it's as if you're slightly overreacting and saying what you're not supposed to say, so my banter was done like this. On the subject of energy efficiency, Mr. Nikolov she did not hurt! The theme of energy efficiency has been in 2008, it has been planned and should have been in order by now. She rots, she smells. It smells and from this point of view I'm turning back and I'm telling you: with the investment in energy we're so late! With as much time as you manage! How long I don't know. You can manage so much more, but the troubles of not investing in energy, the troubles of not having made Silistra's fathers Kalirash, Nikopol.. Turnu Mugurele, the troubles of not allowing green energy and what was needed to develop, for we have reduced the price by pushing, again I tell you, those financial and economic environments, pushing Mr. Ivanov to keep low prices, we today TPP-2 have decapitalized it. Colleagues, I can tell you that TPP-2 and these 1600 megawatts, if in a short time no measures are taken, will fail. If we pass as the German hydrogen industry, which I do not see in Bulgaria how it will happen. If, God forbid, we should start buying cars of electricity, only when all the cars in Bulgaria are changed are needed 30 thousand megawatts of electricity, new capacities to drive these electric cars. We are also thinking about what was behind what was going on during communism, how Ivan Kostov stopped the Synth instead of standing on this stand and thinking about what will happen in 15 years to keep up with Europe. We have sent our representatives to the European Parliament. I hope these 17 understand it, and as we of the DPS are getting all the reports from the European Parliament relating to energy, I hope you will also get to know them. I am not saying that we are the smartest, but I am telling you that this is necessary to do for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u69	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Any other speeches? Are there any other statements? I won't. Mr. Ivanov, you took notes. He had questions for you. Here you are, you have the opportunity to give answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Many speeches have been made, for which I thank everyone who took part in the discussion. Obviously, the interest in the Commission's activities for energy and water regulation is great. At the same time, in not a small part of the speeches were questions that just made me think that you were addressing me as a minister of energy because some of these issues concern energy policy, and under the Energy Act there are clearly defined and distinguished powers. The National Assembly shall adopt the laws and adopt the Energy Strategy, which is, in fact, the track on which the policy is to be followed. The Ministry of Energy conducts policy and seals the Energy Strategy with specific sites that need to be implemented in order to ensure the country's energy security and all that is necessary for it. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is a regulatory authority. He has 43 powers which are clearly described in the Law in art. 21. They became 44 when last year it was you, the MPs, who gave us additional commitments related to the sale of large energy sites. You meant CEZ. Nevertheless, I will, although briefly, try to answer so as not to be considered as running away from the answers. I'll start with Mr. Shopov. When he talks about the nuclear power plant, it is indeed a matter that is not related to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Mr. Shopov knows that the three months after the publication of the advertisement in the official newspaper of the European Union is being published and investors are being sought, which I would like to stress, should offer offers that are strictly in line with the framework set out by the Bulgarian National Assembly one year ago, in June 2018. With regard to the supply of natural gas. Mr. Shopov said we only have to rely on Russian gas because he's sure the others are going, they're not going. Mr. Shopov, when we rely on only one external supplier, whether from the United States or from Russia, this puts energy and national security at great risk. You remember, I suppose, almost everyone in the room, certainly when in 2009 for 16 days due to a conflict in the gas sector between Russia and Ukraine, Bulgaria was deprived of natural gas supplies from the only supplier. This is Gazprom's export. The then Minister of Economy, Energy and Tourism Mr. Petar Dimitrov officially announced here, from the platform of the National Assembly, that the economy of the country has suffered losses of 500 million. lv. The losses that no one has covered. It is therefore in the national interest that we have a diversification of natural gas supplies. Moreover, what has been happening in the last few months, the price of liquefied natural gas is lower, between 20 and 10% lower than the pipe gas that we are currently receiving from the Gazprom export. It is in Bulgaria's interest that if there is any stopping from one supplier, we should be able from the other suppliers to provide raw material for the industry and heat for the people during the winter months. At the same time, the Commission is performing its functions because we have done everything we need to support the documentation presented to us by the Commission for the extension and construction of our internal network from Turkish to Serbian border from Malclar to Zaichar, so the Commission is making its contribution. With regard to the US power plants, I do not see here either how the Commission can do something that is different from what we have done over the years. Yes, it is true, Mr Boyan Boev, one of the previous presidents had asked the European Commission. We answered in correspondence all questions and inquiries by the European Commission. From us the question was: when will they come up with an opinion? There is no official opinion, but in the end, I believe that the government has a commitment to negotiate the current treaties with the two US power plants. The Commission is obliged to respect the contracts because, in a distant 2014 year, during the same Mr Boyan Boev, it was administratively reduced the price at which the energy from the US power plants is bought out, resulting in three months NEK suffering losses of 300 million. lv. This experiment will never happen again! With regard to the "Sofiyska voda" it is a concession between Sofia Municipality and Veolia. There is no way for the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to intervene and modify the concession. I say for a reason: where the responsibilities are borne by other state authorities. I support what Mr. Valentin Nikolov said that perhaps a project that was launched about a year ago for the Law on Water Operators must find its place in order to actually put in a much clearer regulatory framework the functions, the obligations of the water operators, the sanctions imposed when they fail to fulfil their commitments. For natural gas, because this issue has been raised by some of the speakers involved in the discussion, I would like to point out that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission will first support any legislative change that will lead to an accelerated introduction of a natural gas exchange. This will initially be a non-balance trading platform that will grow into a natural gas trading platform. The Commission's commitment is in the event of a request for such an exchange, we issue a licence as we issued a licence for the Bulgarian independent energy exchange and in relation to all accompanying documents for the exchange. This commitment will be fulfilled by the Commission. It's her commitment. Of course, the experience that exists in Europe will be used. For the Bulgarian independent energy exchange was used the experience of the "Nord pulsa" Norway, and for the gas exchange the nearest large European hub, which represents a large gas exchange, this is the exchange "Baumgarten" near Vienna. I hope to enjoy the experience of this platform, because there things are decided in the best way. With regard to the price of electricity, enough has been said, but I would still like to point out something. Mr. Shopov insists: "Don't raise the price of electricity!" He didn't even specify whether it was a regulated market or a free market. If there is talk of not raising the price of electricity only for the regulated market, then the difference between the price of electricity on the regulated market and that on the stock market, where the Bulgarian industry draws energy, will become so big that they will actually all start to return to a regulated market, which is in absolute contradiction with the need for market liberalisation. If he talks about not raising the price of the free market, it's an impossible action. Impossible! That's a thought from 40 years ago! Because if the price of the Bulgarian Energy Exchange is low, all electricity will be exported to neighbouring countries. We will actually feel a deficit of electricity, because Bulgaria is no longer an isolated country in terms of its energy, both electricity and natural gas and heat. We are really moving towards a European market and in this respect we cannot artificially hold prices again, artificially speaking. We're looking for the right balance, but we can't keep them artificially. Next, I congratulate the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which largely listened to the recommendations made by Minister Petkova and I myself to introduce more and more comprehensive social assistance for heating. In fact, these are energy aids. Families that fall into this category, out of 210,000 now, are growing to 255 thousand. The amount of energy aid increased by 22%. This is the policy that we must follow. People who need and cannot meet these daily costs can be helped through a social assistance system. The rest must pay the real price of electricity as it is. To Mrs. Naydenova, I would like to say that I will check the situation with the water and sewerage network, but I hope that you have clearly heard what your colleague Mr. Manol Genov said that municipal companies will not receive European co-financing for projects to improve the water and sewerage network because the requirement is to be broken down within each region of the country and municipal water and water companies in order to form one, I would say, a district water company. I know the problem, which occurs mainly in mountain and semi-mountain municipalities, because so far they have used water prices on a gravitational basis, and now they have to go to uniform prices. This is a requirement of the Law, which was voted by the National Assembly that prices are introduced uniform for each water operator. Mr. Manol Genov rather made his remarks and criticisms to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. I would not like to get into this conversation, but the reform is actually being carried out by the executive authority. Last for a relatively long time, business plans are being considered. The reason is that requirements were introduced that didn't exist before. For example, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission checks the business plans..................................................................................................... And when that is not the case, mandatory recommendations are given. Secondly, I can assure you that thanks to the National Statistical Institute for each water operator it is checked that the water price is below the limit of social tolerance. To date, the Commission has not voted on any cost to a water operator that exceeds social tolerance. Some of the questions that Mr. Ermenkov asked me, I think we had a debate yesterday in the Energy Commission, regardless of that because he mentioned about the gas exchange, it will be presented in our next annual report because the gas exchange is for 2019 and our report is for 2018. With regard to the criteria for the sale of electricity companies, we will make it possible for us, through intensive correspondence with the Ministry, to call them to actually submit a draft criteria. Mr. Ermenkov, I assure you that even if we do not have criteria that have been presented to us, whether by the Ministry or by the National Assembly, there has been a proposal for criteria by MPs, we will fulfil our commitment under the Law. This will not be an excuse not to rule, but, as it is written, we are the last institution to rule after having pronounced the KPC, the Ministry of Interior, the DANS and others that have been referred to. What do we do in cases where the connection of business sites is slowed down, in general, by consumers to the relevant electricity distribution networks and, above all, electricity distribution networks? Mr. Ermenkov, this year we have conducted a comprehensive inspection of all electricity distribution companies in the country. We've made thousands of unsaved deadlines. Thousands! We have issued forced administrative measures that must be complied with because otherwise very severe fines threaten each of the electricity distribution companies. Believe me, in a few months, I'll tell you what the effect is, but they finally realized they couldn't. I don't want to go into the details to tell you what the number of objects that are not joined without reason or seriously delayed objects is. Secondly, if you'll allow me, I will add: this is largely the fault of the respective municipalities when they have to issue detailed planning plans, a design visa and so on. These are documents, which for most of the municipalities in Bulgaria are being delayed beyond the prescribed deadlines. If you'll allow me, I'll get to Mr. Ramadan Atali. Mr. Atalay, since I've written down all the questions on three pages, I'm trying to focus on the most important ones. Regarding energy efficiency, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission does not have a special body. It is the Agency for Sustainable Energy Development, which together with the Ministry, are the two bodies to decide on the fulfilment of the energy efficiency requirements. With regard to complaints. First of all, I would point out that there is a large increase in the complaints on which the Commission is saying something that has not previously been so. Secondly, wherever complaints are justified, we give mandatory prescriptions to the electricity distribution companies for recovery, power supply, zeroing of improperly reported electricity. This is actually for all the other companies as well. However, in the area of heat supply, the main commitments are the Ministry of Energy because they are the ones who have created and implemented the Regulation on heat supply. In the water sector, we often refer them to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works because they are in the portfolio of the principle of these companies. Let me say that I have listened very carefully to each of the speeches, and although the Commission is really working very seriously, I assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that we will do our best in the next annual report to really draw the conclusions, recommendations and conclusions to another level in order to be truly recognizable with regard to all the reporting information we give. Thank you very much for your active participation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-30.u71	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov, for the detailed and accurate answers. We're putting an end to this debate. We're going to vote. I shall put to the vote the following draft decision: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 10, para. 3 of the Energy Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission's Activity Report 2018 Vote 128 MPs: 94, against 29, abstention 5. The decision has been adopted and the report has been adopted. I will read you parliamentary control reports on May 31, 2019 on Friday: - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova will answer one question from MP Tanya Petrova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer two questions from the MP Galya Zhelyazkova; - Justice Minister Danail Kirilov will answer two questions from the MPs Iglika Ivanova Sabeva and Radostin Tanev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva will answer two questions from the National Representative Alexander Matsurev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer five questions from the MPs Daniela Dimitrova, Alexander Matsurev, Petar Hristov Petrov, Stanislav Ivanov and Borislav Borisov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question from the National Representative Tanya Petrova; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov. Due to the use of sick leave, the Minister for Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Dear Members of Parliament, this is the end of our work for today. Tomorrow, a regular meeting at 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
