ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, in connection with yesterday's conclusion of the sitting. We were at the Chairman's Council this morning, and after having a conversation, we decided that Mr. Gurnevsky would be punished under art. 156 with a reprimand. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, please wait a minute. I understand Mr. Gurnevsky wants to take the floor and say a few words about yesterday's event. Mr. Gurnevsky, come in. Colleagues, a personal explanation wants to make. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Gurnevsky, in the manner of conduct, let's say. Mr. Gurnevsky, come in. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, let's be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, yesterday was indeed an insane parliamentary day when the country's budget was adopted. All day long we witnessed both provocations and insults. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u3	Mr. Gurnevsky, tell me! [[Strong noise, lines and banging on banks from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Hold on, guys! Colleagues, please, please, wait!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u4	Here, you're showing your behavior again.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u5	Mr. Gurnevsky!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u6	At the end of the parliamentary day yesterday, something happened that should not happen in this Parliament to surround the stands of the National Assembly [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] People should call on the President to be removed from the place where the sitting is taking place. That provoked me, and I took the liberty of saying things that I shouldn't have done. I'm sorry about that. After everything that has happened, I call you all today and tomorrow the most responsible and worthy MPs in cold blood and calmly to discuss and adopt the budget of Bulgaria. I'm sorry again! [[Heckling]] I hope there will be no more excuses for such words. If anyone felt offended by what I said, I'm sorry that they got to know each other and I apologize to them. [[Noise, screams and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u7	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. [[People from BSP for Bulgaria are asking for the floor.]] Colleagues? Mr. Gyokov, in the manner of conduct. Let us continue and in a moment I will tell you what else has happened at the Conference of Presidents. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Gurnevsky, Madam President, don't apologize because I didn't hear the word. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u9	He said, "I'm sorry."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u10	I don't care what Mr. Gurnevsky feels sorry for, I want an apology because I felt offended by what he did. Until he apologizes and you give him adequate punishment, we won't continue. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u11	He apologized and said, "All those who...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u12	No, he didn't apologize. We didn't hear the word "I'm sorry." When we hear the word "sorry" from this tribune, then he apologizes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u13	Mr. Gokov said: "I apologize to all those who have felt affected. " [[Replys from the MP Georgi Gokov away from the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u14	No, I didn't take it that way. In the manner of holding Mr. Chenchev, please come in. After all, this is the first time we've imposed punishment on Mr. Gurnevsky, and that's why there has to be a gradation. We don't usually punish like this.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u15	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In my opinion, Mr. Gurnevsky has been punished from previous meetings as well. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] He said it, he said it, but he didn't fix it, because, first of all, it's indecent to insult like that, and there's a record of the scandal. That's the least of it. The second is a reprimand. If tomorrow any of us, because he uses epithets that do not resemble any MPs, but if I turn to someone with a blue trash, you will give me a reprimand, and this goes to the Bulgarian Parliament?! That is why we insist that Spas Gurnevski be removed from the Chamber for at least one sitting. You have the right to remove him from three. But we insist on it because tomorrow some other MPs will afford it and get away with reprimanding. Understand that this is a matter of principle. Yesterday was the border crossing. [[Noise and lines.]] It's good that Gurnevsky realized it. It's very nice that he realized it, although, as he started his apology this morning, it's still a good thing that he finally said the word "I'm sorry." [[Noise.]] We're holding a suspension penalty. This is justice, Madam President. This is what he has clearly earned, and we demand that he be removed from a meeting. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u16	Mr. Zablyanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u17	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Madam Minister! I think we have entered a stage that is not productive for our work, and we are dealing again with the consequences. At the heart of what happened yesterday was the refusal of Mr. Emil Hristov, chairman of the sitting, to put to the vote the proposal, which was made by BSP, to vote by standing on the ground and to announce how the respective MP will vote on a specific point. Mr. Hristov's refusal was not motivated, a very clumsy attempt was made to refer to the Rules. If anyone has to offer an apology, I think that at first this should be the cause of the situation and then, in the chaos, Mr. Gurnevsky really crossed some boundaries of our communication, he apologized. I suggest we continue our work. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u18	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Colleagues, let's continue after what Mr. Zablyanov said. Just to continue, to tell you what happened at the Conference of Presidents regarding Mr. Hristov's decision yesterday. The procedure made by Mr. Popov will be allowed today at the meeting. I understand, however, that previously the DPS wants a re-vote of their proposal. So we will allow for a re-voting of your proposal. [[DPS lines.]] I knew it would be like this, and then I'd give Mr. Popov the floor again. [[People from BSP for Bulgaria are asking for the floor.]] I'll tell you what, and I'll give you the floor. I'll give Mr. Popov the floor to make a motion to vote by getting up. [[Heckling]] In the program, the first point is state social security. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u19	We didn't vote on the program!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u20	Because we got into procedural issues and we didn't vote on the program. Let's vote on the program! Colleagues, forgive me, this is my pass, since we've started very emotionally. I hope you'll forgive me. [[Relations from MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] Mr. Karadaye! Draft programme for the work of the National Assembly from 4 to 6 December 2019 There are no proposals from the parliamentary groups. Today is the first Wednesday of the month and there are no proposals from the parliamentary groups for this week. "1." Second vote on the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2020. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2019. The first vote was adopted on 12 November 2019. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 2. Second vote on the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2019. The first vote was adopted on 13 November 2019. 3. A bill for ratification of the International Contract (LOA) BU-B-UCA "Licenses and technical support of the JCATS (Jont Conflict&Tactical Simulation) system including Linux operating system licenses, version Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) and training for the absorption of the new equipment. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 22 November 2019. Point 1 for Friday, 6 December 2019 4. A bill for ratification of a Purchase and Delivery Contract between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the State of the Netherlands for the purchase of mine hunters Importer is the Council of Ministers on 22 November 2019. Point 2 for Friday, 6 December 2019 5. Draft Law on the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, such as Garant, and the European Investment Bank, as beneficiary, in connection with the Financing Treaty of 10 October 2019 between the European Investment Bank and the Bulgarian Energy Holding. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 21 November 2019. Point 3 for Friday, 6 December 2019 6. Parliamentary control comprising: 6.1. Debates on the inquiry by the MP Anton Kutev to the Minister of Culture Boyl Banov on the policies of the government to guarantee freedom of speech in Bulgaria; 6.2. Answers to questions and Please vote on the presented Programme. Vote 217 MPs: 152 against 1, abstention 64. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Firstly, I would like to inform you that while the representatives of the BSP for Bulgaria and I attended the Conference of Presidents, it was not agreed that Mr. Gurnevski should be punished with reprimand. We have clearly stated our position that Mr. Gurnevski must be removed from one sitting of the Rules of Procedure up to three. It is your right to judge how much you will punish him with. I would like to remind all MPs and Bulgarian citizens who see that Mr. Gurnevsky is not doing this for the first time. He insulted the parliamentary group many times from this tribune, publicly from the hall, sending us to Siberia, calling us thieves and yesterday calling us red trash. However, behind this parliamentary group are one million Bulgarian voters. If you think you're only insulting Georgi Svilenski or Cornelia Ninova, that's not the case, Mr. Gurnevsky. The worse in the whole situation, honourable Members, is that Mr. Gurnevski is a member of the Parliamentary Committee on Parliamentary Ethics. This is the person who should tell us, to follow us, to guide us to follow the Rules, not to violate it, to hold an ethical tone, to respect each other, to respect the Bulgarian citizens as well. We also ask this question: is it right for such a person to be a member of the Committee on Parliamentary Ethics? Madam President, on behalf of the parliamentary group, we insist that the decision of the parliamentary group is to suspend Mr Gurnevski from plenary. [[Noise and lines.]] In order to restore confidence and parliamentaryism in this House, everyone must suffer punishment. If I broke the rules yesterday, I probably broke the rules. [[speaking indistinctly]] I also ask to be punished by the punishment I am being punished for coming and seeking the rights of the parliamentary compliance group. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u22	Procedure Mrs. Daritkova. And you procedure, Mr. Shopov? Yes, I'll give you the floor, let Mrs Daritkova say.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have done all we can today at the Conference of Presidents to restore dialogue, to seek consensus, so that we can continue working on looking at the country's budget. For us as rulers, this is extremely important because we are responsible for the adoption of this law. I understand that opposition colleagues have decided in every way to interfere. I think that if we take out the transcripts, we can find a lot of reasons on each side of the room to be angry because they called us all sorts of offensive epithets. There have been situations like this, and if we pull out the transcript, we may have reasons to ask many colleagues of you to be removed from the Chamber, there have been such occasions. However, if we really try to change and care about the rating of this National Assembly, we will do our best to restore dialogue, continue the work in a spirit of parliamentaryism, and I think it is wrong to violate the Rules by giving a parliamentary group the opportunity to determine the extent of the penalties. I propose that we reunite and discuss, but in no case here the dictatorship group should impose on the President a punishment which she considered proportionate to the infringement. Because verbal address is no less severe as an insult than the physical one that you did yesterday with the presence of this tribune. [[Applause from GERB.]] I ask that we really do not interfere with the work and continue because this does not in any way increase our ratings in the eyes of the voters. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u24	Thank you. Mr. Shopov, come in for a procedure. In a moment, I will announce a 10-minute break and gather the chairmen of the parliamentary groups in my room. Please, Mr. Shopov, just let's get this procedure over with.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u25	Wrong, Madam President, wrong, it's a very big mistake! It's also a mistake what we're doing right now. A problem that doesn't exist, words, words, words that create someone, because who would be Mr. Gurnevsky if he hadn't spoken periodically, for twenty years now, some such words. In Bulgaria, we are a representative sample of the Bulgarian people, so it is in society, there are such and there are red communists, there are blue communists, there are probably blue trash and there are red trash and that is our trouble. I've told you many times here how the masters, colonial superiors want us to hate each other and keep doing it? Apparently, there's a way to keep doing this. Here the wisest was Mr. Zablyanov's statement. Today, when we have to look at the state's most important Budget Act, we start the day this way. The serious debate, the meaningful debate was yesterday, first of all, for the election of the new minister "Mrs. Sacheva," and then the conversation, the battle was for the three hundred leva minimum pension "yes or no." Opinions have been made, we voted and it has come to this. I want to reassure young BSP colleagues not to be so explicit and not to make this unnecessary legitimization that they are making at the moment someone. Because that's gonna be the subject again today. Colleagues, this is not parliamentaryism, this is not parliamentary maturity anymore in the thirty years since the beginning of the changes. We are here several old parliamentarians, and Mr. Markov is here from BSP, there is a colleague from the Grand National Assembly. How long will this children's disease of Bulgarian parliamentaryism continue?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u26	Time, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u27	Punishment, someone apologized here... I think some young BSP colleagues also seem to be trying to legitimize themselves as somehow.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u28	Time, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u29	Therefore, there are no presidential councils. We are entering the topic in art. One of the budget and let's move on. What happened yesterday so scary and dramatic? These are banal parliamentary practices, including going out here to parliamentarians, and this has happened.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u30	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u31	Therefore, I call you to wisdom, parliamentary and democratic treatment of various speeches, various opinions, various opinions, if you will, and insults are such. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u32	Thank you, Mr. Shopov, for your balanced speech. Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u33	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm one of the people who's offended by Gurnevsky's red trash. With him, it's a relapse. He was here when he said, "Better a fascist than a communist." Crawling fascism also enters this hall, not only in Vitosha, when it is Lukovmarsh, where fascists come from all over Europe. It can't be allowed. How many times has he said that this parliamentary group, the Communists, have sunk to the elbows in blood? Colleague Slavcho Velkov wore black gloves so he wouldn't bleed out of his hands. Indeed, Mr. Gurnevski, this is the Bulgarian Parliament. You are from a civil quota, do not act like a blade and a bigger Catholic than the pope, than the people of GERB. After all, you were also the mayor of Plovdiv, we know all your work, we know your proletarian poetry...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u34	The procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u35	The procedure is to be punished with at least one removal from the room. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Revelations and lines.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u36	Colleagues, take 10 minutes. I ask the chairmen of parliamentary groups to come to my office. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u37	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. The Conference of Presidents did not agree on Mr. Gurnevski's punishment. It remains as it is, as I put it, under art. 56, t. 3.... rebuttal............................................................................ The apology he made from the stands is accepted by one of the chairmen of the parliamentary groups. The good thing is that we have agreed on one thing from now on, honourable Members, not to have the language of hatred, not to use insulting qualifications, and for every insulting qualification I personally undertake to punish the MPs with all the strictness of the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, Mr. Vigenin, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Despite the effort to find an acceptable solution to yesterday's case, that didn't work out. Our parliamentary group accepts the intention from now on that such language will not be present in this House to have insults to colleagues or to entire parliamentary groups. However, we do not accept what Mr. Gurnevsky said as an apology. It's normal for those who weren't offended by his screams yesterday to accept that as an excuse. We regret that the GERB parliamentary group does not understand the gravity of what happened yesterday and cannot understand why our parliamentary group, behind which are close to one million voters, does not think that such an action should be carried out simply with................................................................... We continue to insist that Mr. Gurnevski be suspended for a meeting within this parliamentary week. We understand your problem with the quorum and with the budget vote. Let him remain and vote on his proposals, and on the GERB parliamentary group within today's and tomorrow's sitting, but we insist that if this cannot happen today or tomorrow, he be removed in the Friday's session. We believe that the Bulgarian Parliament should give a clear sign that such rhetoric, such an attitude towards the MPs is unacceptable. Together with this, we propose and insist the parliamentary group of GERB to make a proposal for the removal of Mr. Gurnevski from the Committee on Parliamentary Ethics, as this is systematic behaviour [[SPEAKING SPANISH]] . This is a proposal, honourable colleagues from GERB. You will or will not comply with your work. We're giving you advice. [[noise and lines]] We're entitled to this without insulting you. We do not believe that this person may be in this committee, which should be watching for parliamentary ethics in the National Assembly, unless you have put him there for that purpose. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Bills and draft decisions for the period 27 November "3 December 2019: A bill to amend and supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure. It was brought in by Cornelia Ninova. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. A bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. He was brought in by the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft declaration relating to the 100th anniversary of the signing of the Neucoal Treaty. It was introduced by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. Distributed to the Committee on Foreign Policy and to the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. Draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Vice-President and two members of the Communications Regulation Commission from the quota of the National Assembly, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, as well as the procedure for selection by the National Assembly. It was introduced by the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Proposal for a debate on questions, No 954-05-39, dated 17 September 2019 by National Representative Anton Kutev to the Minister of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria Boil Banov on the policies of the government to ensure freedom of speech in Bulgaria. It was imported by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. A bill to amend and supplement the Currency Act. He was brought in by the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies, Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for Chairman and Members of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, as well as the procedure for selection by the National Assembly. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the importer. Colleagues, we are moving to the first item of today's agenda: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR THE BUDGET OF THE STATE PUBLIC COUNTERPARTY FOR 2020 I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Mr. Popov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u40	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is for direct broadcast of today's plenary session on BNT and BNR. [[Noise and lines.]] We're looking at important texts about...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u41	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u42	...the development of Bulgaria for the next year and years, so that the examination of the state social security and the big budget should be broadcast directly on BNT and BNR to get acquainted with the Bulgarian citizens with what awaits them next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u43	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I put to the vote the procedure Mr. Popov just did for the direct broadcast of today on BNT and BNR. They voted 211 MPs: 99, against 64, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Letifov, come in. We have voted on the proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi, which is not supported by the Commission. On this occasion Mr. Letifov is doing the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Please re-vote Mr. Mustafa Karadaye's proposal and a group of MPs in art. 10, because there was no order in the House last night in this vote and many of the colleagues failed to vote. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u45	Please, a voting regime to re-vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. Vote 215 MPs: 101, against 52, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. I'm voting on Mr. Nedyalkov's proposal. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Both yesterday and today we are renewing our proposal on how to vote, namely by getting up from place and announcing the vote. This will show to the Bulgarian citizens, to the voters of all presented parliamentary groups who will personally, individually, MP how he will vote on the proposal of Mr. Nedyalkov and of the BSP for Bulgaria to increase the minimum pension to 300 BGN. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. I put to the vote the proposal Mr. Popov made. They voted 210 MPs: 87, against 88, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Milko Nedyalkov. Vote 215 MPs: 100 against 50, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial for art. 10 on the Commission report. Vote 214 MPs: 137, against 61, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u48	Dear Madam President, colleagues, we continue with art. 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 11. Under art. 12 has a proposal of the National Representative Krastina Taskova and group: ................................................................................... Art. 12 is amended as follows: Art. 12. The amount of the monetary compensation for raising a child up to 2 years of age under art. 53 of the Social Security Code for 2020 to be the minimum wage for 2020 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and group: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The 12th number..380.. is replaced The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 12. [[Replication from the BSP for Bulgaria "A" Article 11? "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u49	You may speak under Articles 11 and 12. I missed art. 11, because there were no offers. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u50	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! With art. The amount of the monetary compensation for raising a child up to 2 years of age shall be determined. There are three suggestions. One of them is the importers - 380 BGN, i.e. freezing the same levels at which the compensation has been so far. The other proposal is from colleagues from Volja. That is to be equal to the minimum wage, i.e. BGN 610. The third proposal is from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. It's for £650. and de facto follows the logic of the proposal and of the colleagues from Volja. who say that should be equal to the minimum wage, but because we propose the minimum salary for next year to be 650 BGN, so our proposal is that maternity for raising a child in the second year be 650 BGN. I'll try to motivate our proposal. The motivation of the proposal stems from the fact that monetary benefits for maternity and paternity are paid to insured parents. I note to all Members of the National Assembly that these are benefits, not benefits for parents. The benefits must replace the work income when the insurance event takes place, in this case, while those insured are on maternity or paternity leave. This compensation, this social protection must be adequate in terms of both the amounts of replacement income and the duration of their receipt. It must also be proportionate to the income from labor on which the mother was provided. And now tell me how £380. replace the income of, for example, a young woman who provided an average wage of 1200 BGN for the country?! That is to say, the government is offering an employment replacement rate of 31%. With this replacement income, the child should also be raised, and this is not an easy job at all, because children's foods, clothing and so on are expensive, and you do not even want to discuss reducing value added tax for these goods. Therefore, I do not know the logic and I do not understand the stubbornness of the budget makers for state social security to freeze for another year the compensation of mothers for raising children from 1 to 2 years at 380 BGN. All prices grow, life rises, even the minimum wage increases. If you had offered to raise this compensation by the percentage that raises the minimum wage, for example, I would not have agreed, but at least I would have reported that you were following some logic. Now, how you defined these 380 leva, no one in this room is aware, unfortunately, and it is also not clear to people how the amount of benefits is determined. Expenditure in the budget for child benefit, including after the first year, is reduced. Due to the demographic crisis, the amount of compensation remains BGN 380, and I think it is cynical. How does this relate to your declaration that you see the demographic problem in Bulgaria and that you will work to overcome it, that the priority of this budget is raising the incomes of the Bulgarians?! Aren't these young mothers Bulgarians Bulgarians? Aren't they Bulgarian citizens?! How to raise a child with 380 leva. for the parent at the poverty limit BGN 363?! The motivations I hear are good because in this crisis in the labour market, mothers should not be motivated to stay unemployed or in paid leave, borders on cynicism and shows complete ignorance of the processes of the labour market. Only adequate conditions for raising children and a better, motivating payment would bring them back to work earlier, not your sanctioning behaviour to freeze benefits. Offer attractive bonuses, reliefs, offer them a legal opportunity for a shorter working day to have time to take care of their children, offer them good service to their children in kindergartens and places in kindergartens and they will return to work on their own. The proposal of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) to create better conditions for raising children by increasing the amount of maternity in the second year to the amount of minimum wage, you see it in the Commission report. It is not supported by the Commission, but this does not prevent the House and the Members of the National Assembly from considering the matter and supporting it. In conclusion, this covers about 60,000 mothers who have provided themselves. The necessary additional funds amount to 75 million s, which is extremely achievable and unloading the budget. I believe that all MPs who are concerned about future generations are obliged to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I can't see. Here you are, Mrs. Jeleva, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u52	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Our proposal in art. 12 f: the amount of the monetary compensation for raising a child from one to two years of age is determined to be changed art. 53 of the Social Security Code so that the minimum wage is linked to this compensation or, as we said, we want this compensation for 2020 to be BGN 650. Similar requests and proposals have been made in previous years. Why? In previous years, when we were managing, this compensation may not have been formal, but with the budget vote, it was increasing compared to the increase in the minimum wage. It should be borne in mind that the compensation for raising a child from one to two years of age is for mothers with insurance history, that is, in the past, insurance contributions are made against them, which are due to mothers until they are included in the labour market. These are insurance rights that are now being cut. Unfortunately, there is no instrument and mechanism that is fair to regulate this compensation over the years, but in no case should this be an justification or thus neglect these social security rights and freeze the compensation again to such low, insanely low levels. Nothing that we are talking about right now, then we will talk about in the state budget, about the increase in wages; the insurance increases, the inflation increases, but in this case we are still freezing, although insurance contributions for each mother, for each father, for each working man are increasing on the basis of minimum wage, because we all... both mothers and fathers pay these benefits until the time of this maternity and then until the end of their entire work experience. Mothers are entitled to this compensation after their leave for pregnancy and childbirth has ended. The social security contributions to General illness and parenthood, I say again, we make them for the rest of our lives. Should this compensation be frozen, moreover, that I would like to emphasise, this compensation should not be regarded as encouraging? Insurance payments are a substitute payment of income. What's going on? Instead of providing insurance payment to replace the income from one to two years of the mother who raises her young child, she gets for another year 380 BGN. Extremely shameless low levels, close to the poverty line. In the end, I'd like to address you, Madam Minister. I would like you to comment on this question: is this fair? I want you to give your opinion as an expert and as a woman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u53	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u54	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that we should debate on this proposal because we have a national security problem... we are simply disappearing as a nation. There's no other country that can melt so fast. We believe that when a person has provided himself, it is not for people who are waiting at ATMs on the 27th to receive benefits, but when a person has provided himself for this insurance risk, which occurs from one to two years to look after his child, it is normal for the state to respond properly because this person has been correct to the insurance system. Here, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about raising a child from one to two years old. I do not think that this is a major budget problem and that we cannot provide these funds, because in the end it is about the future of this country. We want to raise this help for children from one to two years from the funny 380 leva. on the minimum wage. Why the minimum wage, colleagues? Because whenever BSP was in power, this is always how it happened. This compensation was equal to the minimum wage. This happened even during the short period during which the Oresharski government was. Is that right? That's right! We wish to continue this practice because it is for absolutely all Bulgarians, for absolutely all young people, for absolutely all those who need support. Yes, some will say: this is not enough incentive or, hardly necessary. After all, of course, for a young family, for a young mother, to raise her child, it matters whether she gets 380 levs. Or 650 leva. Of course, there is a difference and that these funds are necessary to buy the child the necessary products. And if we are so concerned about a fissure fact is that this money will not be saved, and 20% will immediately return in the form of VAT, because they will enter the consumption, I do not understand why we are stubborn, given that we have such a problem. I understand, having some huge birth rate, already chasing 10, 11, 12 million, wondering what to do... We're depopulating! We're out of here! Now is the time to show that we do have some concrete proposal. Okay, not that... Then tell me who the others will be. We cannot tell young people and families: we do not take care of you in any way. Of course, this is a complex approach, of course, that this is related to both our education system and our healthcare system, and what utility services are offered, and at municipal level what is the role of the municipality itself to the extent that it is committed to politics for children. But in the end, when a person has provided himself and when that happiness has happened to him and he continues to raise his child from one to two years old, it is quite normal to have that compensation. Another point is that he may want to get back to work quickly. Yes, there is an incentive that we welcome by the first year to receive part of the compensation, but this mother may think she wants to stay home and continue to look after her child within two years. Only we say, "No, you can't! We're gonna freeze this settlement. It will continue to be 380 BGN (BGN), which is incomprehensible to us and I do not see the point of continuing to be stubborn every year. I understand that you are proposing some great program to deal with the demographic problem to say: "Well, you from BSP are looking for an excuse to pick on each other. " Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is that you simply do not offer anything to deal with the demographic crisis. That's the problem. It depends on you, on every single MP, but in the end, this is about the future of the country, given that we have such a huge problem. It's a shame we're... I would even think about what Standard and Poor's would say about the way we compensate Bulgarian mothers for raising children from one to two years old. [[GERB lines.]] We boast so much, but we are at the last place on the economic indicators, which really show the way Bulgarian citizens live, but this is another topic. I don't want to get into it. In the end, this is about, again I say, people who have been correct about the insurance system, who have provided themselves and it is quite normal for the state to be sympathetic to their joy and to stimulate them, because indeed the problem is not these families, it is not GERB, it is not BSP, it is not DPS, it is about the future of the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? I can't see. Other speeches. Here you go, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. newly elected Minister! In the way the debate is going, I see that much of the House is disinterested on one of the most important social issues that we are discussing today through the budget for the state social security budget, which deals with one of the main social problems related not only to the size of pensions, but also, of course, with the basic policy regarding the demographic situation of Bulgaria. You all know the tables that rank Bulgaria at the head of all negative rankings in terms of demographic indicators, in terms of mortality, birth rates, migration, incomes, poverty, size of pensions, all that determines the state of Bulgaria in a demographic crisis. Today we declare to you our desire to deal with these issues by offering a package of measures and we are consistent in our actions and desires by participating in the work of this National Assembly and for the third year in a row we are proposing our legislative activity Today, in the budget for state social security, we propose an increase in benefits for mothers for raising children from one to two years of age, and we believe that this is one of the very serious and important issues related to the demographic state of Bulgaria. I can say that the condition of mothers and young families in small municipalities is extremely worrying "where kindergartens are lacking, where jobs are not available. With the way in which today you are participating in this discussion, by not participating, you show a refusal of desire to deal with the most important issues in front of Bulgaria. And I want you here, dear Minister, as I see the reluctance of your parliamentary majority group, you as its political representative, at least you to come out and participate in this debate, to say what your political will is. Do you want to deal with this issue because it is a long-term process? There is no way with one-off efforts to increase, there is no way with the freezing of all these social payments to solve severe demographic problems. State your political will how to deal with it. Where are they scheduled in the budget for the state social security that we are discussing today and the next budget that we are going to discuss? I want to hear them from you as political will expressed through your policies and measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u57	Thank you, dear Mrs. Lecheva. - What's the line? I can't see. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva, for this question. I think the measures taken to promote birth rates and support mothers are far from being limited to this proposed text. I get the impression that really in the debate right now more important are numbers, and it's not important as if reason and meaning. You're well aware, and yesterday I also pointed out... [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I think you put the debate on ethics, didn't you? Let us implement this debate on ethics with content. Yesterday I mentioned that the qualities in my biography are precisely that I worked in three sectors. Therefore, today, when you are putting the issue of mothers, I would like to tell you that, of course, first of all, stimulating to have children does not just go through money and money alone. It goes through the perspective of the young people concerned and of what the young people in Bulgaria want. Mothers most of the time would like to get back to work. Of course, this budget, the philosophy of this budget, is aimed precisely at bringing people back to work and not depending so much on social services and social payments. It has also been mentioned by you, Mr. Stoinev, for the possibility of a return supplement and when mothers return, to receive 50% of the compensation. In addition, you know that the government announced very soon that in the next three years, 70 million each year. lv. will be set aside for the construction of kindergartens. A project has also started to pay fees to kindergartens for children from socially weak families. Therefore, 22 million of this project are targeted and another 10 million will be given by the government to cover fees for kindergartens. There is currently a working group which, together with the National Association of Municipalities, discusses how this will happen and how it will be stimulated. With regard to small settlements, where kindergartens cannot be revealed for understandable reasons, additional mobile service opportunities will be directed, including to provide part-time care for children both through the budgets of the Operational Program for Human Resources Development in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and through the programs of the Ministry of Education. I believe that the government has a comprehensive policy in this regard, which does not run out of numbers alone in this budget. The last thing I would like to draw attention to is that this budget really needs to balance all interests, between revenue and expenditure and between the interests of absolutely all people who depend on the budget that you are going to adopt today. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u59	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sacheva. Mr. Zablyanov said a statement, Mrs. Klisurska and Mrs. Tasco Ermenkov. Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u60	Mrs. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly, Mrs. Minister! The debate on the public insurance budget raises a big question for me, which you have just made, Madam Minister, an attempt to answer. What is the philosophy of social policy in Bulgaria, what is it aimed at? Yesterday you correctly noted that the Ministry, besides social policy, is also of labor. I think the first thing to stress is that between these two areas, to call it that, there has to be a connection. Labour and social policy must be connected in some way in order to make sense for Bulgarian citizens to work, to be provided so that, at times when they cannot work, they can live decently. Pretty much assuming that this is the common goal of social policy. The aim of social policy is not to equalize the citizens, I speak, to level them in a social sense. And we're aware of that. So where should social policy be directed, what do we want to achieve with it? You just said in your speech that the aim of social policy is to achieve some balances. Balances in society in terms of income and inequality are initially impaired. They are violated by the dominance of market relations, by inequality in incomes, in opportunities and in the exploitation of human labor.. alphabetic things in politics. Well, then I put the following question, since you say that the budget is not about numbers, but mind: well, since you can't do pensioners, and since you can't do mothers, you can't do the old ones, you can't do the young ones, who's the social policy? Let's get the mothers back to work faster, so I understand you by stimulating them with the pay gap or the social assistance they provide. Look what, so no social policy, anywhere, has given any result. I am telling you this with a clear awareness of the limitations that stand before you.. budget, political, inherited momentum in the field of social policy. The point of today's debate is that we as MPs and you as an executive representative, your fellow ministers, should try to change our understanding, because we have already talked several times about the demographic situation in Bulgaria. I think there is no doubt about what the situation is in this matter. Well, well, we're thinking with financial parameters, or you're suggesting we reason with reason. Then let us reason with the mind of the ordinary Bulgarian citizen who is standing on the other side and who sees what the prices of children's goods are. Apart from the amount that separates the state through the budget, there are also the realities of the market. Well, do you know what the prices of children's goods are? We all know that. What does this market look like? Well, the clothing is higher than the adult goods, individual items and all other items. And what do we tell Bulgarian mothers? That we're not gonna give them that money because they want to get back to work faster. Look, this has inherited momentum for me since the early times when the principles of Bulgarian politics and social policy were formed, which he thought would correct the shortcomings of the market with some state payments. This is already impossible because the differences in both the labour market in terms of pay and the market for goods and services are such that they can hardly be compensated by the inertial financial parameters staked in the public security budget. That's what this is about, rethinking philosophy. Because these financial restrictions that you are talking about are no longer based on elementary financial logic, because if we believe the Prime Minister, our country is currently in good financial condition, in economic growth and in growth of citizens' incomes. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Now is the time to devote funds...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u61	Please complete the statement, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u62	...to fund motherhood. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u63	Thank you. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In yesterday's debate, I was concerned with the fund that provides child benefit between the first and the second year, but I will repeat some things today. And that's what they are, let's talk to facts. Currently, about 12 thousand Bulgarian mothers will receive such compensation for raising a child between the first and the second year. Since 2013, for six years, child benefit has been almost frozen. In 2018, we took a timid step of 340 BGN. At 380 leva. The increase was 40 BGN, which is equal to BGN 1.33. an increase for the month for this compensation. For the third year in a row, mothers will receive compensation of 380 BGN. I pay attention to everyone, my colleagues said it, but it is important to say it many times that during all your work experience all active and efficient mothers and fathers in Bulgaria import into this fund in order to receive some real adequate compensation when there is a risk. That is why there is such a fund. Each of you who is familiar with insurance systems in the countries of the European Union and who has read, most likely knows that there are 11 Member States of the European Union where there is no such fund in which countries take this risk at their expense because they care for young families, for active and working people. Dear Minister, when you spoke a moment ago about the balance, I believe that in no way can the balance be broken with regard to the compensation for raising a child between the first and second years, if our proposal is accepted, because mothers who decide to raise their children between the first and the second years are insignificant. Unfortunately for me, if we look at the statistics, a very large percentage of Bulgarian families do not decide on the birth of a second child. The big problem is that you, in the face of the government, do not take absolutely any adequate steps in terms of stimulating active life, in terms of combining this active life with personal and family life. Because what preferences do we offer for young families, what tax benefits do we offer? Our parliamentary group for the second consecutive year in the alternative budget makes a complex of such measures, with which to first stimulate the opportunities to increase the incomes of the active and working people, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to stimulate the ability to decide to give birth to a child in Bulgaria. Look at the stats. Every year fewer children are born, every year Bulgarian families do not decide on the birth of a second child. It must be a signal lamp for everyone, a signal lamp to turn the way with regard to farming policies, for birth, for stimulating families for active and working life, because, I will say one more number and I will repeat it today by the end of the debate. 688 thousand Bulgarian citizens get close to the minimum wage and after they pay their contributions, taxes, through consumption and VAT, their funds go to the poverty threshold. In this situation are the active, the young and the workable. So let us allow at least 12 thousand Bulgarian mothers to receive adequate compensation for raising a child. I don't think the insurance system's gonna get hurt. Accept our proposal, and it is to have an effective tool with the minimum wage. We believe that its growth should be more significant, in line with the economic situation of 650 BGN, which is a significantly better amount for raising a Bulgarian child. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] When you provide enough seats for children in kindergartens, then, ladies and gentlemen in charge, when you provide babysitters to all Bulgarian mothers who are unable to accommodate children in kindergartens, then freeze the maternity allowance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u65	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Ermenkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam Minister, the budget is not numbers, the numbers in the budget are a policy instrument. I've said it a few times, and I'm gonna say it from this tribune. Because if you turn the budget into numbers, it becomes clear your attitude the less costs, the less numbers in the cost value, the better for the budget. Unfortunately, this cannot be the policy of a country in which its Constitution states that it is social. There's no way you're talking about motherhood, we're almost comparing it to heilazing, and we're paying him 380 BGN. Just as much as moms get, it's not without anything. Motherhood is labor, hard work, and at the age when a child first adapts to the world and where motherly flattery is most needed. With what we offer, we give mothers the opportunity to choose whether to stay home and watch their children, because children need their care, or to decide to go to work. With what you propose in your budget, this choice is gone. This choice says this: the faster you go to work, the better. The more you go to exploit your work, the better for the employer, the better for the fissure, the better for that country that is called neoliberal. It has nothing to do with the social state that we are talking about, because this money is being given so that a normal generation can grow and be cared for and raised from the very beginning by mothers. One of the prides in Bulgaria was long motherhood for a reason. But I am convinced that because for you everything is numbers, it is no wonder that in the near future you will reach for the term of motherhood, so that you can do even faster, not with the right to choose, but by law, to get mothers to go to work early. This cannot be a policy, this cannot be a fight against the demographic crisis. I urge you to support our proposal. Our proposal does not resolve the issue of the demographic crisis cardinally, I would even say a disaster, but it is a first and necessary step towards solving, part of the complex of measures to be taken. It's true, it's just money that doesn't work, but it doesn't work with slogans. Therefore, we should start with small steps to solve these problems and the first small steps are named for what we propose the maternity benefit to be equal to the minimum wage, and we propose this minimum wage to be 650 BGN. Otherwise with everything you do, your balance is on the back of the poor. We balance to get from the poor to give the rich, we balance the poor to be even poorer, so that the rich can be even richer and finally take account of some macroeconomic successes that do not shine at all the ordinary person on the street. You know what the condition is, you can go ask anyone who is the first to meet if they are satisfied with life in Bulgaria. Once again I call on you, let us return to the fact that our country is social and help mothers to have the right to choose whether to look at their children at home during the two years in which they will receive normal compensation or if they want to go to work, but not to force them through low benefits to go to work. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Genov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u68	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! I will not enter into extensive statements on this proposal of BSP, which reads: in art. 12 the number 380 to be replaced by 650, which basically means that in the second year for raising a child the monthly amount is equal, as you suggest, to the minimum wage. There were a few, how do you say, inaccurate terms. We're talking about social security. The fact that someone is provided does not mean by defolt, by obligation, that the second year for raising a child from one to two years will normally be taken over by the state. That's not what that means. Let's see how it is in other countries. I suppose you are aware that from the whole European Union in Bulgaria motherhood, as motherhood from zero to the first year has been paid and is one year. In all other countries in the European Union, maternity is three, four, five months maximum, in Italy is 22 weeks. You can see this on the Eurostat page. In Bulgaria, motherhood for the first year... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We're talking about the second one, yeah. For the first year is 45 days before birth and then one year after birth. Then, the second year Everyone says it's a small sum. However, I have a question for BSP: do you think that if we make this amount 650 BGN, this will lead to an increase in birth rate? Or can you approach in another direction, as is the idea of the Ministry? The point of this is precisely to give mothers opportunities to stimulate themselves to get back to work and make a much better income and have a standard for raising the child. Those opportunities have been said. I will repeat the two main options: one is to get in addition to the salary, half of their motherhood. I can only say as a statistic that in the first nine months when this measure came in, 12 300 women took advantage. Now it's supposed to be over 20,000. What does that mean? That means moms want to do this thing. After that, the other measure, which is financed by European funds, was financed by parents in employment. One question is that most parents would go back to work, but they have no place in kindergartens or no one to help them raise children. Here, in this measure, can rely on help parents whose children are not admitted to the garden and this scheme provides them with a babysitter for 18 months, which can be a close relative as long as it is registered on the market. In general, motherhood in the European Union is short. True, with larger amounts, well paid, but it's short. Again, in most European countries it is of the order of 3, 3 and a half to 4 months, in Bulgaria is one year. Very often, comparison is made with our northern neighbour Romania. It's 126 days, it's less than six months, and mothers get 85% of their salary and leave. In any case, the models laid down in European countries are such that they stimulate a more recent return of mothers to work, and that is exactly the point of the proposal in art. 12 of the Project Budget for this year. Moreover, our national legislation sufficiently protects and pays special attention to pregnant women, mothers, nursing women, focusing on protection against dismissal, regulation of night work, labour development and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. - What's the line? Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, the Minister is gone, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, I listened very carefully to your speech and the statistics that you presented to us. Yes, but Bulgarian children are not statistics, Bulgarian mothers are not statistics. Twelve thousand people went back to work. How can they not return when you condemn them to poverty with 380 leva? And how to survive with 380 leva. BGN 17 above the poverty line?! Humiliating, isn't it? In Europe, mothers have many bonuses that they do not have in Bulgaria. Something that yesterday you rejected the free medicines for children up to 14 years old, in Europe it is not in Bulgaria. Europe has flexible working hours for parents. Where is the flexible working hours in Bulgaria, I ask, or a mother who is twice absent from work because of a child's illness is asked to leave work forever?! How do Bulgarian employers treat young mothers with understanding?! Not at all, not at all! How to enter a nursery in Sofia, in Burgas, in Varna, difficult. And why, Mr. Genov, do you think that better for Bulgarian children will take care of babysitters, babysitters than their own parents? The best thing for a child between one and two years is to be watched by the mother. And you know it very well. At the moment, with this decision of stubbornness you condemn the Bulgarian children. No empathy from the state to the parents, none! Genocide is called this. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. Mrs. Klisurska?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Genov, yes, really in Bulgaria motherhood is high - mother can use 410 days, only, dear Mr. Genov, you have read the facts, but not to the end. In order to receive the mother's child benefit and those 410 days, you know, two years ago, along with the state social security budget and the state budget, we changed the rules............................we introduced requirements for mothers to have been provided two years back and the income they receive within these 410 days is not one hundred percent. I want to ask Mrs. Minister a question, I regret that she is not there, but at the bottom I see representatives of the NSI, let them say how many Bulgarian mothers do not have an interruption in the insurance service two years back and what real compensation do they receive within these 410 days? So let us look at European statistics and European data as they are. In the last European report, I have it with me, I can give it to you to read, to see about the large tax preferences of families with children across Europe, not to speak in the world. We don't have such preferences. Yes, you have read the European projects that are currently developing, but I would be very interested to see how many parents have benefited from them. In small towns and places where there is no accessibility to administration to help those young families who want to get back to work but cannot benefit from these European projects, who is helping them? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Yes, in the big city of Sofia, if we show the sample, most likely the babysitters have happened here, but in those poor settlements mothers can hardly benefit from these programs and projects, and the compensation is so low that really mothers...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u73	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u74	...in no way can they raise their children properly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u75	For the third line, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, Dear Mr. Genov, Dr. Genov, here you have done some strange things in your speech. For example, just because someone is provided does not mean that in the second year they should receive benefits, and adequate benefits. That's a very strange statement. A few years ago, even with GERB it is constantly like this, we went back 24 months in determining the compensation for the mothers. So when determining the compensation, we can artificially reduce it in the first year, going back 24 months, because with rising incomes, this is a living reduction in compensation, in normal 12 months to go back, because this is a substitute income, it is not a punishment for the mother to receive lower compensation, but a substitute income that provides adequate compensation, proportionate to what she received before the insurance event takes place. So you're not right here at all. You kept saying to see how it was in other countries. Well, Mr. Genov, give our every speech to see how it is in other countries the size of pensions, let's see how it is with the size of wages, let's see how it is with the standard of life, let's see how it is with the length of life. However, you should not quote when it is convenient for you that in Bulgaria we only have better conditions than other European countries - a good motherhood by duration, not in the amount of compensation, and take it. Now you say: they are given the opportunity to return to work and receive salaries. Do you know, Mr. Genov, how many of the Bulgarians receive minimum wage? Why would the mother go back to work to get a minimum wage?! Those 12 thousand, you quote, must be getting a good paycheck and going back to work. Okay, okay! What about the others? In our opinion, if you provide a motivating payment to people, not a sanctioning behaviour to freeze benefits, but attractive bonuses, reliefs and legal opportunities for a shorter working day...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u77	Time, time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u79	...child gardens, babysitters, that's when it'll be done.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u80	Time, time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u82	With sanctions for holding it hard work!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u83	Finish the speech. The hole is dear Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will not use corresponding words similar to genocide and so on to make the line. I just want to say that you are accusing me here that we are comparing ourselves to European countries. I think Bulgaria is going in a direction in which it is necessary to compare with the European countries. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So in all countries, things are like this, and there are incentives. In all countries, young mothers are equally encouraged to return to work so as not to escape their professionalism and professional skills. Because I suppose many of you have worked in a variety of different collectives where such a specific activity takes place and when a mother returns in two or two and a half years, because we know that a little more can be absent from work, then things are quite complicated. This is about Mrs. Sidorova's question. As for Mrs Klisurska, yes, we have changed the rules in this way because of the many abuses. You know very well that there have been employees or workers before that, which are not provided for for a long time, prefer to receive the entire amount in an envelope and have nothing to do with their contribution to the system. At the next moment, when they find out or when they decide to have a child, they make insurance contributions and then receive this state aid. About Mr. Gokov. Mr. Gokov, you say not to compare ourselves with other countries so precisely, but are they provided there? They're being secured!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u85	Do they go back 24 months?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u86	Then why is maternity leave like 3 and a half months, and then the next period, which is most often about 60 or 70% of the amount, is paid? For example, it is another 3 months, i.e. the maximum that can be reached by maternity leave and the next period is not more than a year. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. We continue with the speeches. Are there any other statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I'm putting an end to the debate and moving on to the vote. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. [[Noise.]] We're looking at art. Article 11 12 of the Bill. I will put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal to art. 12 by the MP Krastina Taskova and a group of MPs. They voted 193 MPs: 91, against 4, abstention 98. The offer is not accepted. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What is it, Mr. Gokov?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u88	Revoting, revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u89	Mr. Chenchev!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u90	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Members of Parliament have entered the Chamber, who have failed to vote, so I propose a re-vote procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u91	Thank you. Revoting the unsupported proposal of the National Representative Krastina Taskova and a group of MPs. 200 MPs voted: 96 against 7, 97 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. 200 MPs voted: 94, against 2, abstention 104. The offer is not accepted. I will now put to the vote the text of the importer for art. Article 11 12, supported by the Commission. They voted 201 MPs: 117, against 77, abstention 7. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u92	Art. 1 (1) (a) Art. 13 to art. 17 are by importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer as members from 13 to art. Seventeen included.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u93	Statements? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Come and make suggestions if you want. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "We don't have one, we don't have one."]] I don't understand what you're trying to say! [[(Replys from the BSP for Bulgaria: A Article 11, Article 11?)(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] Yes, we vote Articles 13, 14, 15, 16, 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u94	We voted. They say we didn't vote art. 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u95	That's not true! Article 11 shall be voted in conjunction with Article 11. 12, the two texts were voted at the same time. If there are no speeches, I will put an end to the debate and move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the following texts of the importer for Articles 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17, supported by the Commission. They voted 193 MPs: 125, against 68, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u96	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Paragraphs 1 and 2 by importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u97	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of the component text of the importer and the text of the importer for paragraphs 1 and 2. Vote 178 MPs: 123 against 49 abstentions 6. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u98	Under § 3 there is a proposal of the National Representative Krastina Taskova and a group of MPs: "1." In the Transitional and Final Provisions, in § 3, item. the following point 7 is inserted: (a.k.a. 5 is repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in Transitional and Final Provisions: 1. A new article shall be created. 14a: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 100, para. 1 the words "from 1 July" shall be amended by the words "from 1 January." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: In Transitional and Final Provisions, § 3 is hereby established. 22a: 22a. Paragraph 7d shall be established in Transitional and Final Provisions: , §7. (1) Employment pensions granted until 31 December 2016 shall be revalued from 1 September 2020, with the individual figure multiplied by the country's average monthly social security income for 2016, after which the pension amount shall be determined under the conditions and in the order of art. 70, 75 and 79. (2) The recalculation of pensions under para. 1 shall be carried out if this is more beneficial to the person. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In the Code of Social Security (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4a, para. 6, p. 4 after the words "or in non-personalised companies" a comma shall be added and a person shall be charged according to the order of art. 26, para. 7 of the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) paragraph 7 is amended as follows: The guarantor shall be obliged to: 1. to hold for a period of 50 years from 1 January of the reporting period following the reporting period to which they relate, payrolls, employment contracts, additional agreements, appointment orders, additional agreements/orders for reassignment, orders for unpaid leave in total over 30 working days in one calendar year, orders for termination of employment or service relationships; documents shall be kept in accordance with the order laid down in the National Archive Fund Act; 2. at the request of an insured person or his representative to issue for free, within 14 days, insurance and/or benefit documents and/or work category for periods prior to 1 January 2000; 3. at the request of the officials referred to in Article 3. 40, para. Art. 3, Art. 54g, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 98, para. 1 issue free of charge, within 14 days, insurance and/or social security documents, and/or work category of persons insured with it, as well as certify facts and circumstances relating to such documents; 4. to the 25th day of the month following the month of termination of the insurance, to submit to the National Insurance Institute a document certifying the duration of the insurance service of the first and/or second category of work acquired by the person; the insurance officer shall also record in the document the corresponding provision of the Employment Classification Rules for retirement (e.g. and/or by the Ordinance on the Classification of Labour in Retirement, on which it proposes to respect the insurance service. (b) paragraph 8 is amended as follows: The contents of the documents under para. 7, p. 2, 3 and 4 and their order of presentation shall be determined by an instruction issued by the Governor of the National Insurance Institute. The data in the documents shall be used for the award and calculation of pensions, cash benefits and benefits. (c) in para. 10 sentences first and second are amended as follows: 7, p. 1 as well as the workbooks not received by the insured persons, issued certificates of employment/security service and insurance income and other documents stored by the insurers on the basis of which insurance and/or insurance income may be established, and/or category of work, shall be transmitted to the respective territorial unit of the National Insurance Institute on the basis of a written application on the basis of a model, unless another order for their preservation is laid down in a law. The application shall be submitted in accordance with the order laid down by the instruction under para. 13. (d) in para. The 12th sentence first the words the paying payrolls shall be replaced by the salary notifications. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 11, p. 3 after the words "or in non-personalised companies" a comma shall be added and a person shall be charged according to the order of art. 26, para. 7 of the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 in the text before t. 1 the following shall be added after the words.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1): (b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: For insurance internship in retirement of persons over the age of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 shall also be considered the time they lack as an insurance internship to acquire the right to a pension under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 and 2 but not more than 5 years if insurance contributions have been paid in accordance with para. 3. (c) in para. 3 a sentence 2 is created: the amounts are entirely on the account of the persons, calculated at the date of their entry into the amount fixed for the Fund for the persons born before 1 January 1960 on the minimum monthly amount of the insurance income for self-insuring persons determined by the State Social Security Budget Act for the year concerned; (d) paragraph 6 shall be repealed. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13c, para. 1, t. 4 all over the world after the words "child rearing" is added to "up to 2 years of age." 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 5 are created t. 16, 17 and 18: ..16. keep a record of the documents referred to in art. 5, para. 7, p. 2, 3 and 4; 17. keep a register of persons with insurance internship under art. 9a; 18. keep a register of the decisions of the medical committees under art. 98, para. 4. (b) the creation of para. 8. The National Insurance Institute shall carry out an ongoing exchange of information with the National Revenue Agency in connection with the implementation of their powers in accordance with an instruction issued jointly by the Governor of the National Insurance Institute and the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. The first sentence shall be replaced by a personal payment account marked by the International Bank Account Number held by a payment service provider licensed by the Bulgarian National Bank or by a branch of a payment service provider operating in the territory of the country. (b) in para. 4 in the text before t. 1 after the words "child rearing" "up to 2 years of age" is added. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49, para. 2 after the words "child rearing" "up to 2 years of age" is added. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54g, para. 4 the words "personal bank account' shall be replaced by a personal payment account designated by the International Bank Account Number, led by a payment service provider licensed by the Bulgarian National Bank or by a branch of a payment service provider operating within the territory of the country. 10. Article 69d is repealed. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 70, para. 17 sentence 2 is created: "Recalculation shall be carried out from the date of submission of the application.' 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 75 is created. For another three-year period prior to 1 January 1997 under art. 70, para. 17................................................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 79 is created. For another three-year period prior to 1 January 1997 under art. 70, para. 17................................................ 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) c. 1 sentences shall be created second and third: The order shall be issued within 4 months from the submission of the application or from receipt of the necessary documents and/or data as provided for in the ordinance under art. 106. In the case of the implementation of an international treaty to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country or of the European Regulations for the Coordination of Social Security Systems, the order shall be issued within one month of receipt of all necessary documents and data. (b) c. A sentence 2 is created second: The order shall be issued within one month of receipt of all necessary documents and data. 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 101, para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 106 words are settled by an act of the Council of Ministers and are replaced by a decree of the Council of Ministers. 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. The orders, the bills and the mandatory prescriptions shall be served to the persons in charge personally against a signature, by means of a licensed postal operator with a return receipt at a specified address or at the relevant address under art. 18a, para. 8 of the Administrative Procedure Code or by electronic means under the Law on Electronic Governance. Where the service cannot be carried out in accordance with the order of the first sentence, a notice shall be placed on the notice board in the territorial division of the NSI or on the NSI website for a period of 7 days after the expiry of which the document is deemed to have been served. 18. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 114, para. 5 words by para. The following shall be replaced by the following: Three and four. 19. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The first sentence shall be amended as follows: The insurance contributions for additional compulsory pension insurance shall be paid within the time limits laid down in art. 7. 20. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) 1. A new para is being created. 2: A person born after 31 December 1959 who is not subject to compulsory insurance for an additional pension in a universal pension fund whose relationship with an institution or body of the European Union which has been provided in the pension schemes of the Union has been terminated shall be entitled, of his choice, to transfer the funds that he has acquired under that scheme: 1. in the Fund of Pensions, respectively in the Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. 69, of state social security; for a person under art. 127, para. 5, born after 31 December 1959, which has not exercised the right to choose insurance under art. 4b, the funds shall be transferred to the Fund of Pensions, respectively to the Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. 69, of state social security, as well as of a universal pension fund, or 2. in an additional voluntary pension fund that pays life pensions, or 3. of an insurer entitled to carry out an activity under point 3. 1 point (b) of Section I (b) of Annex No 1 to the Insurance Code. 2. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it after the words. 1, t. In addition, paragraph 1 (b) is replaced by the following: 2, p. 1.................................................................................. 21. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) 1. A new para is being created. 2: When the person makes a choice under art. 343c, para. 2, p. 1, The National Insurance Institute shall allocate the funds received from the Union pension scheme in the following order: 1. in cases where funds are transferred to the Union pension scheme in accordance with Article 1. 343a, the amount equal to the amount of the transferred funds updated at the date of the transfer shall be transferred back to the Fund. 69, of state social security; in cases where for persons under art. 127, para. 5 who have not exercised the right to choose insurance under art. 4b, funds transferred under art. 343a, para. 1, t. 2 in the Union's pension scheme, the funds shall be transferred back to the Pensions Fund, respectively, to the Pensions Fund for the persons under art. 69s, state social security and the relevant types of supplementary pension funds from which they have been transferred; 2. of the amount remaining after the allocation of the funds under point 2. 1 respectively the funds received in cases where funds are not transferred to the Union pension scheme under art. 343a, funds shall be transferred as follows: (a) for a person who, at the date of election under art. 343c, para. 2 is not subject to compulsory insurance for an additional pension - in the Fund of Pensions, respectively in the Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. 69s, to state social security; funds shall be transferred calculated on the basis of the remuneration on which the person is insured at the time of termination of his relationship with a European Union body, the amount of the contribution at the time of transfer and the insurance periods of a real service in the Union, as well as any other insurance periods covered by the Union, except those of the Republic of Bulgaria; (b) for a person who, at the date of election under art. 343c, para. 2 is subject to compulsory insurance for an additional pension in the Fund of Pensions, respectively in the Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. 69s, the public social security and the universal pension fund chosen by the person; funds shall be transferred calculated on the basis of the remuneration on which the person is insured at the time of termination of his relationship with a European Union body, the corresponding amounts of the contribution at the time of transfer and the insurance periods of a real service in the Union, as well as any other insurance periods covered by the Union, except those of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it after the words "al." 1, t. In addition, paragraph 1 (b) is replaced by the following: 2, p. 1.................................................................................. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it after the words. The following shall be added to the list: 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5. 22. In the other texts, the words "growing up a small child" are replaced by "growing up a child to 2 years of age."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Dear colleagues, the exhibition "With Bulgaria in the heart" will be opened at the Club of the National Representative. The exhibition presents 30 canvases of landscapes and genre paintings. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u100	Colleagues, we're continuing the debate. I'm opening the debate on § 3. Mr. Gokov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u101	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Among other things, § 3 is our proposal to recalculate pensions. I allow myself to take the floor, first of all, to present our proposal and, secondly, to say that this proposal has not come up spontaneously from us. It is consistent, principled and has been for a long time. I mean, I don't know if the Minister is following these things right now, but there are a lot of protests going on in the country from pension organizations. They collect signatures and want this recalculation, write calls. Let me just take one of those calls. [[the MP goes to his place]] sent by the participants in the protest rally of a pensioner organization in Shumen region. They claim they've collected 1,800 signatures so far. [[Sends Minister Sacheva sheets.]] I want to tell you that this is not an idea that spontanely arose by the BSP. I'll try to motivate her somehow. I'm going to start by saying that the problem with low incomes is the most serious amongst pensioners. I guess no one in this room is gonna deny that. Insurance and age pensions in our country are inadequate and unduly low, and in the pension system are accumulated problems and distortions, for which this budget of state social security does not offer a solution. However, the budgetary policies proposed here, against the backdrop of the growing number of elderly people and the increasing number of insured people, will in practice lead to more pensioners living below the poverty line, relying on the pension system for their maintenance. Once again, I will note that a 6.7% increase in pensions, and not until 1 July 2020, when inflation will have eaten it, does not solve the problem of inadequately low pensions that Bulgarians receive will not compensate for inflation and will not be enough for 2 million 150 000 Bulgarian pensioners to live at least as they have lived in the past 2019. For 11 years after the pension implementation in 2008, there has been in some cases a lag in the size of the old pensions compared to those newly granted with an equal contribution to the insurance system. This is because the principles in the insurance legislation and the policies for updating and indexing pensions are being violated, especially those allocated before 2002. This has led to a lag of pension incomes from growth of economic development, the growth of annual social security income and in general at the country's vital level. We, as a parliamentary group, and I look at the calls of the pensioners, believe that urgent measures are required that do not violate the basic principles of insurance and to disprove the young Bulgarians to be provided at all. One such measure is the recalculation of pensions. We therefore propose that employment pensions allocated by 31 December 2016 be recalculated by multiplying the individual figure by the country's average monthly social security income for 2016, after which the amount of the pension shall be determined under the terms and conditions of the Social Security Code. Of course, recalculating pensions only happens if it is more favourable to the pensioner. The latest and only such recalculation dates back to 2008 with the average income for 2007, which was then 398,17 BGN. You all know from whom this proposal was proposed and implemented. Now the proposed recalculation of pensions with medium-term income for 2016 would partially clear the problems with inequalities, but further steps must be planned for adequate pensions. I personally believe that this is only one of the necessary steps to seek a lasting solution, but it is important because otherwise the problem with one of the basic principles of insurance, as is the equal treatment of insured persons, will deepen. I believe that our proposal to recalculate all pensions in the sense of the proposal that we have made between the first and second votes is worth paying attention to it because it contains solutions both to raise the incomes of pensioners and to overcome the differences between old and new pensions. I appeal to the House: since we have no other proposal to resolve the problems of the pension system, to discuss this proposal of ours and to make the right decision, but I think we have done it between the first and second vote on the state social security budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you are, Mrs. Asenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u103	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Madam Minister! In practice, the budget of state social security will not solve any of the social problems of our pension system. And in 2020, Bulgarian pensioners will continue to receive the lowest pensions in the European Union, despite the fact that last year poor elderly people have increased by 30%, and more than 1 million 300 000 Bulgarians receive pensions that are below the poverty line, from the parameters laid down in the Public Security Budget Act, this situation will not change. On the contrary, it may get worse. The income of pensioners will not increase, but at the same time the poverty line will become BGN 363. At the same time, colleagues on the right voted the minimum pension to be 250 BGN and social 141 BGN. That is, elderly people will continue to live at risk of poverty and social exclusion. No small part of our parents will experience difficulties with their pensions to cover their expenses for medicines, household bills and their most necessary food products. And you and I, honourable Members, should at the very least be embarrassed by the fact that we cannot reach agreement and political will to provide them with decent old age. The proposal we make to recalculate the pension will cost somewhere around 560 million. lv. [[a line from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova]] which, against the background of the costs we make, for the purchase of undeveloped aircraft are insignificant. Dear Mrs. Angelova, then you will have the opportunity to replicate me. Yesterday, you yourself said that we have no argument that the recalculation should happen, and we are arguing when to do so, where and how to have the conversation. The newly released pensions are currently twice as high as the old pensions. For example, a teacher who retired before 2000 received 300 BGN. a pension, and a colleague of his who has retired in recent years gets £600. pension and this difference will increase by each year. The recalculation we propose is a small step towards overcoming this injustice. Honourable Members, the proposal is financially justified, timely, reasonable and fair and deserves to be supported. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u104	Thank you, dear Mrs. Asenova. - What's the line? I can't see. Here you are, Mrs. Christova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u105	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! I'd like to introduce you to the proposal we made. As early as July, we introduced legislative changes to the Social Security Code, which suggested that the first three days of temporary incapacity should be taken over by the State Social Security Fund. This proposal has once again aroused the spirits in the country. Other suggestions began to rain from one to the other extreme. Firstly, I would like to say that in 2010, the obligation, i.e. the administrative burden, was transferred to the employers on the basis of an agreement between the state and the business. It was a temporary anti-crisis measure. The reasons for this measure were the financial crisis. That is, the business of agreeing to support the state during a financial crisis. The other reason why this was introduced was also the disciplinary effect, as you all know that a lot of companies abused this, forced their employees to take hospital sheets, and thus made savings for the Fund. In our view, this temporary measure should have been extended for one year, then extended for two years, and then, with the change that we propose to cancel,.......................................................................................... 5 has been introduced as a legislative measure. Employers have been paying the first three days of temporary incapacity for almost 10 years, despite the fact that both employers and workers are paying their social security contributions. In our view, this measure should already be dropped or at least returned to the old situation, when the first day was at the expense of employers who paid 100% of the compensation for temporary incapacity and the next one was taken over by the Fund for Public Security at 80% even if it was, as it is now, at 70%. Why do we think that? The first reason for the introduction was the economic situation in the country, the financial crisis. For years the government has said that Bulgaria has good economic development, we have good economic growth, for years the revenue is underestimated, at the end of the year is generated about two billion surplus, which is distributed at the end of the year with ministerial decrees of choice of the government, so the first reason has been dropped. The second reason why this anti-crisis measure was introduced was to contribute to reducing the so-called fake hospital sheets, but for three years they are no longer shrinking, and on the contrary, they are increasing dramatically. That is why we believe that the reason for the multitude of false hospital sheets and the increase in the cost of their payment is not in who will pay them the public service fund or the business, and the reason is in control, in the genesis of the process of the payment of temporary incapacity benefits. What do you get in practice? Employers and workers are paying their insurance. Three countries are involved in the process - first, employers and workers who pay their insurance; second, they are paid out by the public-service fund, which pays them on the basis of hospital sheets issued by doctors. In our view, in order to deal with this problem, changes need to be made to the health system and to find ways for the state, with its ability, through the labour and health ministries to control the procedures for issuing hospital lists and their payment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u106	Thank you, dear Mrs. Christova. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Ademov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u107	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our parliamentary group has a proposal under art. 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions and it is for the creation of a new item. 14a. We propose updating pensions instead of 1 July to take place from 1 January each year. This is the proposal we are making because in multiple meetings with voters, we are always asked the same question: why update is from July 1st and not from January 1st? However, I would also like to touch on the other topic, which the colleagues from BSP spoke about in Bulgaria a little while ago, if I may say so, on the benefit of pensions. I would like to recall that Mr. Gokov provoked me to recall what happened in 2008. Before that, however, I would like to say that from 1 October 2008 pensions with the insurance income for 2007. The second measure that was taken has increased the burden of each year internship from 1 to 1.1. The next measure of April 1 was an increase in the minimum pension and the social pension for old age by 10%. The next measure was an increase of the maximum pension from 490 to 700 BGN. And the next measure was a 9.7% increase in pensions from July 1st. This increase in the minimum pension and all pensions was deliberately divided into two.10 per cent plus 9.7%, because otherwise under the Swiss rule the update had to be 19.7%. So much for enthusiasm, because everyone who thinks, and you, colleagues on the left, and you, colleagues in this country of plenary [[sighs right]] If you think that this way you win electoral support, you're very mistaken and I'll tell you why. Because in 2009, you know who won the election right after these measures. Immediately after these measures in 2009, the elections won colleagues from GERB. In other words, relying solely on this policy is not enough to gain the voter's trust. I say this for a reason, but because politicians are, by definition, tempted to help by all means their constituents, and there is nothing wrong with that. However, I would like to say something very important in relation to the proposal of my fellow Members. You, fellow Members, are proposing a recalculation of pensions from 1 September 2020. For September, October, November and December, you are calculating expenditure for four months, you just said it, amounting to 560 million. lv. In just four months, an additional 560 million. lv. With the additional 560 million. lv. However, what do you say to over two million and a hundred and several thousand Bulgarian pensioners? You say: we spend on solidarity, because this money will come not from insurance, but from taxes. By increasing the transfer, you say to them: we propose to spend on the country's solidarity money an additional 560 million. BGN, like 937 thousand, if memory of the number does not lie to me, will be excluded from this measure. Two million. 100 and a few thousand pensioners, 937,000 won't get a pension recalculation. Who are these groups? "Those who are on a minimum pension for internship and age; those who receive the maximum amount of pension; those who have retired after 2016, because they are provided with a higher social security income; you know that the average insurance income for the country is included in the formula for calculating income for 12 months before the date of retirement multiplied by the individual pension coefficient; and pensions unrelated to employment. 937,000 pensioners will not benefit from your desire to shorten the scissors between pensions with the same individual coefficient allocated at different times. That is the great concern in your proposal. Otherwise, I appreciate the measure and my concern is that in this budget, the issue of scissors between the so-called old pensions and the newly released pensions is expanding more and more. That's the problem with the pension model. Again, I will not tire of repeating the definition of pension: the pension cannot solve all the problems of social policy in Bulgaria because the pension is a substitute income for income from labor. That's the definition of retirement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u108	The weather, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u109	Thank you, Madam President. In this sense, I respect your proposal, but under these circumstances you should consider whether it is reasonable to support it or not.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. The line, Mrs. Klisurska, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u111	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Dear Mr. Ademov, you were wrong. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] Yes, because I will tell you: this recalculation will be recalculating the pensions of a million and 300,000 Bulgarian pensioners.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u112	What about the others?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u113	This is a much larger number than what we are currently doing with the increase of the minimum pension. This is a reasonable measure, which I believe that if we look at the five principles laid down in the Social Security Code, where solidarity goes, and if we talk about the replacement income received by the Bulgarian pensioners and what we do with the minimum pension, let us also think about those million and 300,000 Bulgarian pensioners who will be affected by our proposal. Let's be exact in the numbers. You said 700,000 people would stay out of range.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u114	No, 937,000. I just checked it out.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u115	That's not true. Half of them will remain out of range because we have a letter from the National Insurance Institute in the middle of the year when we made this proposal. Anyone can open up and see the opinion. Indeed, 400,000 Bulgarian pensioners will remain outside the scope. But what we are doing is the solidarity attitude towards all who live below the poverty threshold of a million and 300,000 Bulgarian pensioners receive pensions below BGN 363. This is an opportunity to really make a more serious commitment to pensioners, and the Social Security Code allows it to us because it has been done, you said it, in 2007 is happening. The management program of GERB also contains such a recalculation. Honourable gentlemen of GERB and the United Patriarch, at least fulfill your promise, which you have written in your program.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u116	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Mr. Gokov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Dr. Ademov, I agree with much of your statement. I will not agree with the figure that you mentioned, 900 and how many thousands, because there are really about 400 or 500 thousand, and this is normal in a recalculation of pensions with a medium-term income not from the last year, but somewhere from a previous year. We did this by 2016 so that we would not put the budget of the Fund at risk and so on. I think this is one of the steps that can be taken in this direction to overcome the scissors between the old and the newly released pensions. Far from it, I'm not saying it's the only solution. Even when I motivated our proposal, I allowed myself to say that other adequate steps need to be taken, such as increasing the burden of each insurance year. I remember in 2007, when I followed these processes outside the parliament when you were Chairman of the Labour and Social Policy Committee. And all pensioners should now thank you, including the then Minister Emilia Maslarova, including you as Chairman of the Labour and Social Policy Committee for this adequate decision at that time, because in our retirement model, what is written in the Social Security Code in art. 100, far from reflecting indexing the way it should happen in pensions. That's why old-fashioned pensions fall behind the newly released ones. Even you had an interesting proposal in this direction to change the burden of increasing the insurance income and inflation depending on which is greater as a figure. It is also an interesting proposal. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm running out of time, even though there's a lot more I want to tell you. Imagine if pensions were not recalculated in 2007, what would be the levels of the current pensions. And imagine if Simeon Djankov had not violated the Bulgarian legislation for three years not to apply art. 100 of the Social Security Code, what pensions would be like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u118	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Is there gonna be a third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u119	Thank you. Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I never said there was no such problem. There is such a problem between old and new pensions. And he gets deeper every year. We have an agreement on this. As far as the numbers are concerned, I've never said any numbers out of this tribune that I didn't check before. The NOI actuaries are here, they can confirm the numbers. This one, first. The second thing, honourable Members, the solidarity we all rely on is an extremely important element of public relations in every country. However, solidarity, when it crosses an invisible border, passes into the field of so-called super-solidarity and begins to irritate those who are affected by this over-solidarity. This is extremely important to understand, because Bulgarian citizens are solidarity in the pension system to the different social groups. They are solidarity to the sector. They are solidarity to miners, metallurs, chemists, to the different groups of farmers. Solidarity comes a little too much. And when we want to redeploy solidarity through the Social Security Code, we need to ask ourselves whether the other Bulgarian citizens agree with this type of proposal. Otherwise, Mr. Gokov, I thank you for your reminders for 2007, but you missed something very important, let your colleagues hear it: in 2007 during the Triple Coalition the mandate carrier was the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u120	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Any other speeches? I can't see. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Imam": "Imam"]] Colleagues, when I ask, raise your hand so I can see and record you. Here you go, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u121	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Minister! In this room, it sounded something, I'd say, very disturbing and interesting. I dare say that I agree with what our fellow Member in the Committee on Rights and Freedoms has also said about the fact that during one of the successful mandates, we have not really met this mass support from the elderly in this mandate. Obviously from GERB and on the right they understood very precisely these signs, so they didn't do anything after ten years. But it is already a fact for all Bulgarian citizens that we have a political party in power, which in today's government is guided only by how to stay in power and not to answer for the main problems and issues facing Bulgarian citizens. This is the distinctive feature of this governance because it is also characterized by the lack of any reforms in all social systems and spheres, even in the pension system, to those issues that concern a million Bulgarian citizens, such as today's issue of pensions, which we are discussing. It is distinguished both by a policy made in pieces and by a policy in the way in which the funds of Bulgarian taxpayers are spent........................................ so that the average European standards as quality of life can be reached, such as the amount of pensions and incomes where we are at the bottom of the table. That is why I believe that this is the only reason I have political stubbornness, not because there is a lack of opportunity through the budget to provide these funds to the Bulgarian pensioners. By the way, I am sure that in your activities outside the parliament you meet many Bulgarian pensioners, pensioners' organizations, clubs. I was especially at such a meeting at a general meeting with my colleagues from the United Patriarchs in the regional pan-European pension organization. Of course, their report began with this: when will it be updated, when will this drastic injustice be reduced between old and new pensions? Finally, they said:.............................................in Bulgaria.......................................... As you can see, we have shown through our estimates and with our proposals in the budget that there is an opportunity to recalculate pensions and take the first step to reduce this deep injustice. So, honourable Bulgarian pensioners from Veliko Tarnovo region, and all of you, there is no way we can unite around this proposal of those who offer it to us by the majority in question, now a third year in a row. We will remain on our idea whether or not we will receive your mass support in the elections, because you are the people who have suffered the most difficult Bulgarian transition, you are the poorest people in the European Union with the miserable pensions. There is an opportunity for this budget, as long as it is spent effectively, as long as it is spent politically correctly and with will, to solve the most important social problems facing the Bulgarian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u122	Thank you, dear Mrs. Lecheva. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u123	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to address the issue of recalculating or updating pensions. My fellow Members, I do not believe that this issue is an object or subject to the wishes of the government or parliament. I believe that we are constitutionally obliged to periodically recalculate pensions. I am convinced that 10 years of non-calculation of pensions puts the National Assembly in breach of the Constitution and I will explain why. According to art. 51 of the Constitution citizens have the right to social security. This provision only makes sense if it is read: The citizens have the right to adequate social security, i.e. one that provides them with the execution of art. 4 of the Constitution, namely that: "Bulgaria guarantees the life, dignity and rights of the person. It is absolutely unacceptable to leave people who have fulfilled the legal requirements in order to acquire a right, this right to be exhausted from a time-expiring content. The formula for determining the pension is what the budget allows, as the parameters allow, but it must be updated with the indexes of economic development, so that we do not get into a situation where someone who has done absolutely everything that is necessary, who has respected all legal requirements, finds himself in an unenviable situation to be miserable. I put aside even the fact of the injustice that exists between these people who worked the same profession at the same time to take a pension, at times different, only because of the date on which they retired. This, in my opinion, is also constitutionally unsupported. What is the only thing that needs to be done, and it needs to be done regularly? The pensions have to be recalculated. You say: "But it will cost a lot of money! " It will cost exactly 1 billion. Seven hundred million. BGN if you accept our proposal. Every year it will cost more and more because this measure has to be done at some point and this is the only way to have cost systemism. Here is also the question of the stability of the system itself. Sooner or later, under the pressure of the street, due to a change of majority or due to the simple return of common sense, the measure will be taken. Any delay will be a greater risk to the next budget, as it will represent a greater burden. You will say: "Nice, but tell us where to get that billion and 700 million. lv.♪ I'll tell you, according to the Ministry of Finance and it announced it three days ago, as of November 2019 it is expected that the excess of revenue over the expenditure of the consolidated fiscal programme will be in the amount, do you know how much? One billion. Seven hundred million. lv.! This surplus should not be as it has been so far, packed, hidden in the next budget, in order to allow in the last weeks of the year promiscuous spending without Parliament's sanction, but must be read. It must be written in this feather! This will not be a victory for anyone other than over a million and a half Bulgarian citizens who expect this measure. Believe me, they'll insist on it! You say the draft budget is balanced. No, it's not balanced. It's missing that billion and 700 million. BGN, which is due to the pensioners. It's like one of you has to take 10 and give 20 and decide that you will only give 10 to balance his account. No, the deficit of a billion and 700 million. lv. exists. You simply make sure that it does not appear in the budget, but in the pocket of the Bulgarian citizens. This is also unconstitutional. After all, what is being violated, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, is art. 29 of the Bulgarian Constitution, according to which no one can be subjected to torture, cruel, inhumane and humiliating treatment. For years Bulgarian pensioners have been subjected to one! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u124	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Ninova, come in for a statement. Then Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u125	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Once again, we are making such a proposal from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria to reclaim all pensions in the budget of the state and rather in the budget of the DVO. Here Mr. Ademov referred to their proposal on the following grounds: "There is no meeting where we have not been asked by our voters why the update has been made since July and not January? "......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Why are we doing this? We can talk a lot about actuarial estimates, about insurance claims, this is important, but we do it because of the following: you can't, you can't live with 200, 250 and 300 BGN. Whatever expert explanations we are giving, whatever roads we are looking for, we cannot! And you know it. So we have to give these people a solution. What do we suggest? Recalculating with a new average social security income something we've done. So it was proven possible, it wasn't populism, and it had an effect. We have assessed the income from 2016 so that the financial stability and security of the DVO budget will not collapse, so that there is no drastic deficit. I mean, we've done it wisely. What reasons do we use? I will refer to the Prime Minister's words. He keeps saying that we have a serious growth in the economy, that is, in gross domestic product as well. So we workers produce more every year and gross domestic product increases. He says unemployment is record low. Therefore, maximum number of Bulgarians work and we import our insurance. You say you have a record surplus of another income to increase pensions. Then why don't you?! You've got one answer, there's no money. We offer you where the money comes from by increasing the maximum insurance income, from the surplus. And another place that surprises me that no one raises the question: honourable rulers, where are the 10 billion from the Silver Fund? When it was created according to forecasts, because of privatisation and concession fees, it had to have 10 billion in it today. lv. and they had to be a buffer for the problems in the pension system. There's between two and three. Today we are talking about a billion funds needed to recalculate all pensions, and there are no seven-eight in the Silver Fund. Where are they?! They would have been enough for seven years to recalculate all pensions. There's money! It's about what purpose are you setting? What choice do you make? What problem do you want to solve? You put the choice like this: deficit in the NSI or genocide, as the pensioners themselves wrote in their petition to us, of these nearly 2 million Bulgarians. Well, between the choice of deficit or genocide, we propose a third reasonably financially, justified budgetary and fair solution for those who have given their whole lives for the construction of Bulgaria and to whom we owe at least this today. Accept our proposal and you will receive that respect that Parliament should deserve for such a decision. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u126	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Kutev made a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u127	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Madam Minister! Not only on this point, today we will have many points where it will be directly about justice and how millions of people live in the country. For me, one of the greatest deficits of modern society accumulated in the last 30 years is actually justice. If there is something that we all feel with our fibers in society and is a constant topic of conversation, this is injustice. This point and this proposal of ours to update pensions is undoubtedly part of the problem of injustice. I don't expect any of your speeches to rise up awful and vote on it now that you clearly have orders not to. The question, however, is what is the meaning and what is the cost of this conversation? Because the injustices that neither begin nor end with the update of pensions are embedded in the structure of our society, in fact, lead to the situation in which we find ourselves in a way that makes no sense to the elites. I must tell you that if there are elites at the moment, you are much more so. With these actions, you are deprecating yourself above all because you represent power at the moment. Are we going to solve the injustice problems if you now take, so by some miracle you vote on this text? No, we're not gonna solve it. But we're going to take at least one important step. By the way, within today we have at least 20 steps that we could take. Someone has already said that we have updated pensions in the past has not led pensioners to vote for us. That is why the proposal is not populism. That if you accept it, it will not lead anyone to vote for BSP, for DPS or for GERB it will lead to a reduction in the sense of injustice, which will not be enough reduction to not hate us all, and especially you, because you are in charge. I mean, here the big problem for me is in this: are we able as a political class, as a National Assembly, as some elite in this country, if at all people like us can represent such a thing, are we in any way able to show people that something is changing, that there are some steps that are going in another direction?! Again, this is not the only text. Where do we get the money? There were a lot of arguments. Only this problem we put into place last year. And last year, the arguments, in order not to update pensions in the same way, were the same! However, in the meantime, within this year we have 3.25% of gross domestic product for military expenditure! We've given billions for military spending this year, and people's pensions have been unuptended! Within NATO at the moment, after the United States, Bulgaria is the next country by a percentage of gross domestic product for military expenditure and the only one with more than 3%! The majority of NATO countries have less than 2% for military spending And we're in 18th place in absolute military spending! That is, you, with your vote, with your management this year, replaced the updating of pensions with money that went directly to Washington for American planes that we will get another time! [[GERB lines.]] This is the result of what you have done! I hear calls here if anyone thinks it's wrong to come and tell me that we're going to get into a conversation. Basically, the calls are cartwheels. I don't believe it's suitable for here. So let's go back to basics. Instead of military spending, what we're offering you is a little more justice! And I assure the callers that you need this justice because you are the ones who bear this responsibility and you are the ones who will bear it in the end. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u128	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. The line, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister! Dear Mr. Kutev, with one part of your speech I agree. I don't agree with what? You're looking for some kind of subservient, accidental, or legal expense to transfer it as a cost to state social security. The difference between buying airplanes, spending money on something else, for example, for renovations, is that the pension system requires sustainable funding! If we bought planes this year, where are we gonna get that money next year? The issue of sustainability, with the receipts in the pension system is extremely important because otherwise this system will fail because there will be no sources of funding. From this tribune I have said: if, for example, the Sultan of one of the Arab countries decided to give the Bulgarian pensioners 10 billion this year. The Bulgarian pensioners will be extremely happy, as is the budget of the Fund. The Bulgarian pensioners will be very happy because their pensions will be increased by 100%. But next year we have to look for the other Sultan. Do you understand? That's the big problem. The main issue is the sustainability of the funding of the pension system.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u130	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Ademov, you said what I might have said less professionally. But I can't agree with the arguments, not the weapons, yes the pensions. I will conclude with a proverb that the nations who forged ploughs from the swords work today for the nations who kept their swords.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u132	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. Third line? Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u133	Dear Mr. Mihov, this military position doesn't surprise me, frankly, but it offends me. I mean, if you're going to fight someone right now, that's your problem, and I don't think it's something you should impose on the majority. In fact, it seems unfair to your colleagues, because I see a lot of humanitarian people here who are not as fond of armaments as you are. With regard to whether arms or pensions and whether it is a permanent policy, Mr. Ademov, I agree with you. Of course, the main problem is that it is a permanent policy and that, in fact, our big problem in this case, perhaps the biggest one, is that, questioning the functioning of the pension system, we constantly discourage those involved in it, making it increasingly difficult and impossible. The pension system has its own problems in terms of demographic problems, meaning it is entering an increasingly difficult phase in itself. And because many people remain unsure because of distrust in the pension system, we make it even more drastic. And that's something that future generations will have to decide on. You're absolutely right here. The problem, however, is that we will vote Friday morning as an item on the agenda some mining hunters... two in number. I mean, we, when we bought the planes, will now buy ships from the Netherlands! They're probably not very expensive. They're probably second-hand, and they're probably important for defense, which I generally agree with. But I want to tell you that this is not a one-time thing, it is a policy, and it is not a coincidence, because from the purchase, you will be welcomed in Washington, somewhere else, someone will be happy, and the commission can also be taken. I don't know what the motivations are. As long as the pension payments are gone, these jobs are gone! It's no coincidence that you go to a whole other expense. So all this consistency of pension policy is important to do year after year we are obliged to do so. Again, I turn to the majority: dear colleagues, you will pay the price of the fact that at the moment I see that two thirds do not even hear me, not for the first time! And it's not the first time I've seen this whole system turn around, and many of you are then left with their reckoning. I hope there's more people out there that you can at least take the credit for. That you won't vote now, I understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u134	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Jeleva. Then Mr Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u135	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Judging from the debate that took place yesterday and today, it is hopeless that you may not agree with our proposal to recalculate pensions; judging from the fact that, in previous years, logic is what the finance minister defined as a framework, such should come out of this Chamber. However, the debate is needed because, through the state budget, we state our policies. And yesterday, and today you said yours, agreeing barely to see how much we would give to the pensioners, 250 leva. minimum pension. Our policy is fairer the one we have been fighting for years is the recalculation of the pensions of a very large part of the pensioners. I'm not going to agree with what we just said here, Mr. Ademov, that this is how we fight for voters. No, that's not true. Regardless of who voted for us or for another political power, we are MPs. Everyone has sworn to be guided by the interests of the people. That is why we are making this proposal today because we are protecting the rights and decent lives of the elderly. Much has been said on this topic today by my fellow Members, I will not continue to motivate our proposal. But I want to finally express the will of the pensioners and because we are chosen to be their voice in the National Assembly, to read a letter or part of it, because it is long, on behalf of a very large group of pensioners. I have to do it because I've been summoned to do it. Dear gentlemen and ladies of Parliament! We decided to write you this letter, provoked by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova's last statement. Once again, we're tired of the lies she's given so in cold blood. She claims that minimum pensions are obtained only by people who do not have full insurance or are provided on a minimum salary. There may be such pensioners, but all of us who have worked for many years have and have provided ourselves with justice and dignity in this service for 38 years. Excuse me for maybe not getting along well somewhere, but it's written by an old man himself. [[Shows the letter.]] I go on to say that Mrs. Stoyanova and Minister Goranov claim that we with minimum pensions receive low incomes because we are unqualified people, with unqualified work or incompetent. In what other country are they treating this way and thus talking about the pensioners so mercilessly about the elderly, who have worked honestly and dignifiedly throughout their life and have dedicated themselves to working towards the state?! Do the rulers not have the strength to deal with the theft in all sectors of the state so that at least our pensions can reach the poverty threshold so that we can have decent old age and take a breath of air? Finally, they call for you to vote on your conscience because this huge injustice to pensioners must be corrected. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, vote on your conscience.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u136	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. Mr. Angelov, come in. Then Mr Nedyalkov, let's alternate the groups. [[Reply from MP Julian Angelov.]] That's a good point. Are there lines? I can't see. Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u137	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that in the last two days, the most active topic are the pensions, the increase in pensions, the minimum pension, themes that are really important. We all know and know that the elderly in Bulgaria are struggling with the income they receive. But this is a fact due to the management of various political parties over the last 30 years and 45 years before that. We all forget those moments. Everyone is very good in opposition, when they propose, they want, their proposal is the best, they are in line with people's demands. But where were you when the United Patriarchs offered the indices, i.e. the claim of all pensions, and a minimum pension of 300 BGN.? Why didn't you, as a social party, put him in your program then? I am glad that today all parties in the Bulgarian Parliament have recognized these proposals of ours, and you are defending them with teeth and claws? We are very happy about this! [[Reply from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska.]] We're very happy about this! We have obviously made it possible to change the outlook of all political parties in the Bulgarian Parliament! [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Gokov.]] Today, all: both DPS and Volya and BSP one to one our proposals! Yeah. Why didn't you make them over the years? [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Gokov.]] Why 2013 - 2014 didn't you do it when the minimum pension was 150 BGN.? How much did you lift it? $4.50. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Gokov.]] How much did you index pensions for 2014? 3%! Why have you forgotten these moments? Why are you lying to people? You are taking advantage of people's misery and poverty to deceive them, that is the truth. Because when you rule, all those things you say now, you don't do them! Unlike you, the United Patriarchs are fulfilling their commitments step by step. And we don't do it for votes and for elections, because in the last parliamentary elections, 10% of the voters for the "United Patriarchs" are pensioners. But it doesn't matter to us. We're consistent and we're working on it. So you can look at your management, you can see them and find out how pensions become 3 dollars, how the minimum pension is 150, unlike our governance at the moment, which is in common with GERB, and will become 250 BGN. Why didn't you do these things? Where have you been? You're a social party, aren't you?! And nowadays you are talking almost that you will be the saviors of the poor and difficult people in Bulgaria. Well, that's a complete lie! If you wanted to take care of those 30 years when you were in the department, you could have done these things. I'm sure that even if you came to rule the state again, you wouldn't do those things, because fairy tales are one thing, work is another. And what we, as the United Patriarchs, are committed to, we are doing it not because of elections, not because of voters, but because you are our principles. Because it is important for us to take care not only of the elderly, but it is important to take care of the young Bulgarian families as well. That is why we have proposed the next year's exemption from fees for children - four and six-year-olds in kindergartens to help young Bulgarian families! And we do it consistently. We don't just talk about pots like you and broadcast all day on your party TV debates, bragging and watching each other. We don't share with each other on Facebook all day long lies that are pre-prepared for you as anchor points and distributed to each and every one of you, and all day they share them on Facebook to set people up. We can do so much now we're 21 MPs, so we can do it, but we do it, unlike you, who are eighty-six and you do nothing! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u138	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Mr. Gokov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Angelov, you have given a passionate speech here. I don't see where you are because I have to look at you by making a line, but this passionate speech and this speech will hardly change things and the fact that you owe an answer to the fact that during the election campaign 2017 you told the Bulgarian people that you will make a recalculation of all pensions and increase the minimum pension to 300 BGN. Our party also recorded this in its election program: recalculating all pensions. Now we offer such a recalculation and give you the opportunity to keep your promise. A few points ago, a minimum pension of 300 BGN was voted here. You didn't support that. I can't understand is it your proposal or any other proposal? And what BSP hasn't done is clear. You can say that she didn't do anything, only a moment ago in her reply or in her speech Dr. Ademov said what the Triple Coalition did, in which part of the government was BSP, and ordered by order what she did. And I say that at that time the pensions of the Bulgarian pensioners rose by about 120 " 130," to 150%. [[Noise and lines from the National Representative Julian Angelov.]] But the fact that you're saying that she didn't do anything BSP and you're yelling...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u140	You have the right to the back of your head, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u141	...from there I won't say like what, so the chairman won't punish me. By yelling, you don't downplay those things that BSP did. You think that by neglecting other people's offers, you stand out. Well, you don't stand out! You just don't keep your promises and you have to make it out of the stands. It won't get any easier if you neglect BSP's proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u142	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Kutev, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u143	Dear Mr. Angelov, I purposely try on rare occasions now when I speak from the stand of the National Assembly, to suggest the idea of responsibility, of personal responsibility and that I see many cases in which each of us can speak, but I do not believe that he should do so every time he can take the floor. Personally, I've always preferred to say something so that it weighs and makes sense that it's somehow universally recognized. Not to jump into the stands and wave the Byrak. We can do that a lot of people, but there's no use for it. This is just part of that lost rating of the elites and parliament, which is why people generally - taken quite harshly look at us. So when you're waving the Byrak, let me tell you. First of all, it's not true that BSP didn't do anything. All the time, years in a row, we made this proposal, including during the time of Maslarova, and we fulfilled it. So we're consistent there. More inconsistent, I would say, are colleagues in your person from the United Patriarchs, because, my dear gentlemen, you are sitting in this Chamber, elected by people who voted against GERB. Your votes, your entire election parliamentary campaign was with rhetoric, which was scheduled against GERB, then you directly betrayed your voters and went to rule with them. Everything you said back then, including pensions, is the opposite of what they do. This is a good tool for GERB. They didn't do it for the first time, it was Yane Yanev, it was the reformers, it was ABB now it's you. They always rule with voices of people who didn't vote for them. You are the ones who bear the responsibility for betraying your constituents and that those who did not want to see Boyko Borisov and GERB, you now, with their votes, are voting for this government. Why? Well, because it's good for you to stay in your seats, to be deputy prime minister and vice presidents of the National Assembly, to exchange some contracts. It's very nice, but it's betrayal! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u144	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Mr. Kostadinov, here's a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u145	Madam President, Madam Minister, honourable Members! Mr. Angelov, I have a line with three dashes to you. Dear Mr. Angelov, thank you for your support. Thank you for supporting the proposal for the recalculation today, for having come a very long and difficult path in this proposal, and I hope now, as you have said from the stand, although with a very critical tone to us, that you will support it. The support, once again, thank you for what you will do, is the natural conclusion of all that you have claimed to your constituents in the election campaign and in all your actions oriented towards the Bulgarian disadvantaged citizens. With regard to the so-called TV station, it is open, Mr. Angelov. Anyone who wants to say something to cover a part of the audience we have a specific audience is welcome, so don't worry, come, feel normal, as, again I say, once again we are in the same direction today with you. And with regard to what BSP has been doing in its long history and has not done, this is a very long conversation, which is not the time for it now. We can take responsibility for what the BSP has not done in terms of education, culture, training, the first seven years of human behavior, because the fruits are extremely, extremely clear and visible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u146	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Mr. Angelov, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u147	Just, Madam President, let me ask you: if I mention the names of the replicators, you won't give them a personal explanation, will you?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u148	No, I'm not going to give the replicators a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u149	Because they're going to ask for a certain personal explanation for that.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u150	You should address them, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u151	Let's get this straight, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u152	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u153	To Mr. Gokov. Mr. Gokov, during the Triple Coalition, when you multiply a zero by even 300 percent, it's still zero, isn't it? If you're going to increase it by 300 percent, it's still zero. How much did the minimum pension become then that I don't remember? Did you have 100 leva?? [[Noise and lines.]] Anything else. At the time of the Triple Coalition, the only thing people will remember you by is the kisses of the Eagle Bridge. [[Noise and lines.]] With the kisses of Eagle Bridge! [[Noise and lines.]] With the kisses of Eagle Bridge, that's it! That's all you've done. [[Noise and lines.]] It's over! And that's why people punished you and punished you for every choice. To Mr. Kutev. Mr. Kutev, you're not the man to keep tabs on me from the stands...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u154	He didn't insult, he didn't say...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u155	...what I would like to say and if I have the right to say it! I can say as a MP what I think. I didn't come out, unlike you, to be two-faced...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u156	But within acceptable limits!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u157	...and lie. Isn't that right? I have expressed a position that I think is right. And it's not right for people who say they can do something and help people, and they have that opportunity, they don't. And the other thing I'm going to tell you: don't worry about the electorate of the United Patriarchs! We in the previous parliament were also part of the majority, but you seem to have forgotten. And we supported. And we didn't lie to our constituents. Apparently, you don't remember that either. I'll tell you one more thing. In the European elections, if we had lied to our constituents, there would not have been two MEPs elected from our list. There was not in the local elections of 120 municipal councillors VMRO to have 240 municipal councilors and six municipal mayors a double score. So voters can make their own judgments about who's lying to them and who's not. Because you've been stared at for 30 years! [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u158	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Lord Nedyalkov, then Mr. Apostolov made a statement. [[Noise and lines.]] We're good tone, aren't we, colleagues?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u159	Of course, Madam President. A good tone must always be observed. He was a bit challenging in the previous statement...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u160	Emotions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u161	...but let's get back to the subject. I can't accept the arguments my speech will be in this direction that the stability of the system without its upgrade in this case is one of the arguments to do nothing. Do not do anything with minimum pensions or update or so-called indexing or so-called recalculation. Look how many terms people have come up with, and we brought them here. I think a system is designed to solve some problems, and public insurance is a system that is called on to solve precisely the problems in the field of social security. And pensions are one part of it. We're talking about this particular part. Everyone has the agreement that the problem of reclaiming, updating, the indexing of pensions is a major problem that is growing over the years. At the same time, we want to keep the system in these parameters, so that it does not fall accidentally or worsen its parameters without solving the problem. This is a closed circle of government that does not produce good results. This system is called upon to decide these results. You know, state social security is one thing, and we already have private insurance. So, what was the effect of what was done? For the first to receive pensions from the two pillars of public insurance, the sum of pensions will be smaller if this is only in state social security. As far as solving the problem, which is fully recognised between the new and the old pensions, a problem of injustice in the system, it must be solved precisely in this system, but by causing some shock therapy. There's nothing else! The system itself has shown that it can survive, it has shown it when once the pensions have been updated.. I will not speak to you from which government, under whose rule. She endured and continued to evolve. Plus, we're talking about a stable development of the country. We are constantly bragging about increasing the credit rating, and we are not taking any action precisely to solve the problems of the poorest layers of.. million and 300, million and 400,000 Bulgarians. Let's do this shock therapy or at least starting today in some direction! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u162	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. - What's the line? Mr. Apostolov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u163	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! You are accustomed to going out on this stand as a multi-suffering Genoveva only to cry for the benefit of your constituents, to whom you do not, however, in any way, defend the rights. And just to remind you, as an heiress to an old, old party of yours, where did the pension issue begin? The problem with the dog's pensions is buried, as people say, in an elementary robbery that took place immediately after 1944. Yes, with the two billion on the stories of the chief treasurer of BNB, the two billion leva pension money that was exported from the BNB vault and went to the Soviet Union along with six wagons of the country's gold reserve. These are documents you can't speak against! And from then on, I want to ask you: our grandparents, on whom you charged the so-called sunny day, which I have seen in my grandmother's notebook, and there it was, wrote: Do we have to pay pensions with this money? You are well aware that at the moment those who are working pay the pensions of the current pensioners, and do not spend money on their pensions for subsequent times. You've allowed this system to be drilled decades back and it can't get back on its feet. Right now, you're going out on the stand here, smearing your own behavior, declaring to your constituents that you're defending their rights, and at the same time you're pushing their heads into the swamp. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u164	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u165	Thank you, Madam President. It's a very short line. Dear colleague, cases don't lie! Lying with an act is impossible. You've been trying to do it since yesterday and today. That's not gonna happen! Your move was to press the green button for what you promised, and all fairy tales and demagogy just keep them home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u166	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Second line, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u167	Dear Madame Chairman, Madame Minister! Colleague, what you are accusing our party of right now shows that you do not know pension insurance at all. The way workers pay pension insurance, people will tell you it was accepted by Otto von Bismarck in 1862, if I'm not mistaken. Even then, the workers provided people who were in retirement age. So this is not the Bulgarian Socialist Party. Get acquainted with the history of retirement insurance and then make your statements on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u168	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Is there gonna be a third line? I can't see. [[Heckling]] For the doppelganger? Mr. Apostolov, will you do the back?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u169	Madam President, it is very exciting to talk about pressing the green button. And I like to push the green button, and I don't like to rub, unlike you, red carpets here, because we've come to do something, not like some of you for decades to sit on these banks. Okay, but let me get to the point. If you had pressed the green button in 2016 and one part of you hadn't snuck out of the room, then we would have a pension of 300 BGN. And right now we were going to talk about exceeding the poverty threshold, because with the recalculations under the Swiss rule, it would now be BGN 378. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u170	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Mr. Shopov to speak. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Svilensky. Others? I don't see anyone else. After Mr. Svilensky, I'll close the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u171	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Don't you notice how wise and cleverly they keep their mouths shut from GERB?! [[Reply.]] Well, they keep their mouths shut, what do they say?! And how they get the chestnuts out of the fire from each other. What do we do with them? We couldn't teach them, and their future is as clear as the waters of the Rila lakes. So this story about how someone took away 30, 40 or 50 years ago Bulgaria's Pension Fund told it to me in the dawn of democracy, in the time of the blue-red fog and is part of that folklore from which were today the insults for blue and red junk and some continue to live and waste on this wheel and be some in Bulgaria. I'm not going back that far. Is it true, isn't it?! Maybe it's true, maybe it's not true. Things are more up-to-date. Just two and a half years ago in the election campaign, and I talked about it, I admit it, we recorded it in the election program of the United Patriarchs. With the third on the list of the Haskovo multi-mandated electoral district Nikolai of IMRO, I don't know why they cut his head off from IMRO, we talked extremely passionately about how they're going to recalculate what I'm telling you, one of the sources on which this pension recalculation could take place. We talked about it, we talked about it all the time about how the pensions would be calculated by making drastic changes in insurance, taking out the fake hospital of 600,000 people. Is that right, fellow Members, from the United Patriarchs? [[Replications from OP.]] That's right, what am I asking you?! We deafened people's ears. That was one of the sources. And what happened during that time when Mr. Simeonov was Deputy Prime Minister on these issues, when NFSB currently has a Deputy Prime Minister on these issues? Mrs. Mariana Nikolova, when IMRO has a Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and, as you can see, Mrs. Sacheva is a photograph of Mr. Simeonov. We all know that, and we need to know that. [[Noise and laughter from OP.]] I wonder why this echidic laughter is, Mr. Simeonov. You should be proud, you should say it and say it in a straight text. So, here's something that wasn't done, which wasn't done, and that was one of the reasons why we at Ataka, when we reminded and talked about it, our election promise, to be so hated. Therefore, Madam President, with your crucial help, our heads have been cut off and we are now independent in quotes of MPs. And I'm telling you, here's one of the sources when pensions are not indexed in 2020. Here, this is one of the sources, this is one of the feathers on which this could have happened, colleagues. And other things that we've said that we've been saying about the fiscal reserve, which is very billions, we soon specified it, over six, which stands for a minor interest rate. That's the money for the Silver Fund, isn't that where the money from the privatisations went?! This money focused on the pensions of Bulgarian citizens. That's one of the reasons. We have been talking about natural monopolies for 15 years! Fifteen years "That Water and Water" Sofia could work for the Bulgarian pensioners, not for the Czechs, not for the English ones, who knows what nationality in Europe is currently working for. Countless businesses could have been state-owned, but they were broken down, mostly during Kostov's reign, which was then also justified by the fact that the pension funds were eaten, were blown away and unknown where they were taken by some previous rulers. These are all topics, topics, topics, and we will continue to socialize poverty, blaming each other, hating each other, blaming ourselves until we take strategic, decisive, general measures to finally stretch out on this Monetary Board with regard to the International Monetary Fund and say: enough!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u172	Time, Mr. Shopov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u173	Because we're determined what pensions should be, what do you think you're thinking?! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u174	The weather, Mr. Shopov, you can finish in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u175	You think something will change if you rule? Well, your frame is set, the model is set.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u176	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. There will be a line from Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u177	Mr. Shopov, you've been practicing on pensions for two days. Yesterday Mr. Veselinov said a truth which is a fact and I will confirm it because I was at the negotiations when they were held with GERB about our common program. Then your leader Mr. Siderov agreed to 180 leva. a minimum pension and said: we will tell people that there is no more money in the budget. If it wasn't for Mr. Simeonov and Mr. Karakachanov then they would insist on raising the pension threshold yet, this wouldn't have happened. Then, at all the coalition councils in these years, I even regret that we did not release you from the group earlier when the issue was raised either by Valeri Simeonov or by Karakachanov to increase the minimum pension and the indexation of the other pensions, Mr. Siderov boycotted and made it so that this would not happen and did not support it at coalition councils. And GERB said: of course, first the three parties and then let's talk. It's the truth! I'm really sorry we didn't get rid of you before, because the pension would already be 300 leva. That's the truth. [[Noise, lines, applause]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u178	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Is there another line? Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u179	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Shopov! First, the pension could have been 300 BGN if yesterday the United Patriarchs had voted. And the Bulgarian citizens should know that only the United Patriarchs opposed the pension to becoming BGN 300. [[Noise and lines.]] That's, that's, all the others, if they had agreed, the pension would be 300 BGN, just "United Patriarchs" didn't fulfill the promise. Two. Mr. Shopov, you're wrong here about some drained funds and so on. There's never, ever been such a drain, because our system has never been capital, it's on a cost-covering basis. So this mantra, that almost once had been drained here, I didn't want to qualify for their knowledge again, but it never was. It's just the current employers, with those who are now working, are paying the pensions of the current pensioners. This is, fellow Members, a cost-covering solidarity principle! Another is the question, however, honourable Members, what happens to the second pillar?! What happens to the third pillar?! What do we have there, what are people's lots, are we stimulating people in any way? This should be the big debates.. in the sense we feel that the train is coming towards us, but we have to debate on them, because this is indeed a huge, huge problem, where within a year or two we have to find a concrete solution. After all, 300 BGN. It would be the pension, but the United Patriarchs refused to vote on it. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u180	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Another line please, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u181	Mr. and Mrs. Ministers? Dear Mr. Shopov, let's take the years back. Ten years ago, what was the relative share of the minimum pension compared to the minimum wage? The relative share before GERB came into power was about 53%, now the relative share is about 39% and will become about 40. [[Noise and lines.]] This shows GERB's attitude towards Bulgarian pensioners. [[Noise.]] Something you said, and I will disprove you. You said: "Your party will not make the change when it comes to power." And I say that we will make the change, we will do the recalculation of pensions and those alternative budgets that we are proposing in the last three years, show the attitude of the parliamentary group, the attitude of BSP to all socially vulnerable groups, because we are all in this room today and now, all of us in this House today must change, not in the past, when you are talking about past decisions of past parliamentary groups. We will do this recalculation when we come to power! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u182	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Now Mr. Shopov. That rila lakes thing was really good!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u183	Really?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u184	Very nice comparison, very beautiful, poetic.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u185	Not to mind my time, but you made me take things back a little bit. I have always said that a Bulgarian man should go to three places in his life at least once: the Rila Lakes, which you said, the Zograf Monastery and the Rila Monastery.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u186	Thank you, Mr. Shopov, go with the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u187	To Mr. Stoynev there is nothing to answer, I have nothing to argue with. Yes, Mr. Stoynev, today the minimum pension would have been a fact for the Bulgarian pensioners - BGN 300 if the VMRO and NFSB had voted yesterday. This would have raised the base for all the other pensions, and today we were going to recalculate, as we are currently debating, because the debate on the recalculation of pensions is also directly linked to this because, when the minimum pension was raised, some money would have entered the economy. According to Keynes, the clock turns, the wheel turns, the economy goes, and everything goes on. And here, Mrs. Klisurska-Zekova, I do not agree with you that you would do so if you were ruling, because you are not radical opponents of the colonial model, because you would also comply with the International Monetary Fund and the Board, which was imposed in Bulgaria and which determines the parameters of this budget. But how can you lie like that, how can it be faked like that? This is disgusting, Mr. Angelov, that Siderov wanted the minimum pension to be 180 leva. Because you're all stained up with this debate...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u188	Mr. Shopov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u189	...because you were completely discredited because you collapsed. To please, you were wondering what kind of tail lies to make up yesterday. Mr. Chukolov was talking about a neighborhood in Ruse. There are three or four similar ones in Plovdiv. One of them, the most emblematic of them, is Stolipinovo, and there is no such lie, Angelov! [[Noise and lines, laughter.]] And if everything that was said from that tribune wasn't protected and had absolute immunity and that's why none of us are wearing...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u190	We're not going to insult you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u191	...criminal responsibility, it wasn't like that. You were court-martialed to be convicted of this. Siderov is the one who has been talking since 2005 about the incomes of the citizens and the plan Siderov talks about a pension of 500 levs [[Replications from the O.R.]] What we did with you for 300 BGN was a compromise, and it was a huge compromise of ours. And we pointed out the sources for the pension to be 500 leva. We were defending our thesis and telling where the money was going to come from. So...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u192	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Get it over with.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u193	...stop it already and don't continue to stain the patriotic and nationalist idea and become a relic.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u194	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. I think we're all patriots in this room. Mr. Svilenski for speaking. This is the last statement for this article.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u195	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, it is really important, in the spirit of good tone and ethical speeches, that we speak truths from this tribune. And here I address my fellow Members from the United Patriarchs and rather to the colleague who, yesterday in the Referendum, gave a lie. Today, out of this tribune, he said it once again and thinks that by saying it ten times, people will forget that it was the United Patriarchs, ruling Bulgaria for more than three or four years [[SIGHS]] , more than three or four years, yes, since 2014 - 2015 did not make the pension to become 300 BGN. And I give you facts: write them down, colleagues, and remember them or take them out of the stenogram. We are talking about that proposal, that proposal at the forty-third National Assembly when you proposed it. [[Noise and lines.]] Open the door "Attack" 11 people, total "32; there may be a small mistake, you are right, as the transcript of parliament gives everyone who has turned around in the group. Maybe there were 17 of them. You're right. Right, you're right about that. 17 and 11 is 28. Do you know how many people were supported by these 27 people? Do you know how long he's been supported? It was supported by seven people, honourable colleagues, and they had not reached and could not pass by four votes. That is, not BSP, which is in opposition and which cannot support the proposal, is responsible for the fact that your 300 leva did not pass. Your two-faced behavior then and yesterday and today shows that you want to lie to the Bulgarian citizens, you want to lie to those million and two hundred Bulgarian pensioners because even if you have hesitated between the power and to satisfy the Bulgarian citizens, yesterday all 19 of you were against it, and none of the best man's shame voted for it, at least have eyes now to come out and make a reply to me. All of you voted out to 1 9 people. You've got that duplicity on your face. A whole campaign on the back of the pensioners and finally here twice, three votes, three proposals you voted against the three hundred levs. It is very important not to return to 1945, and what was the fund? It is very important now that we do something. I called yesterday and tried to do something, unfortunately, there is no hearing in this room. In a few hours we will be looking at the big budget, where you propose that the 500 million of the concession at Sofia Airport go somewhere else. Here's $500 million, guys...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u196	Now we're still down.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u197	...500 million, Silver Fund, pensions one step. The other colleagues said the other proposals: airplanes, ships, mortars, cuckolds and what else we buy. Let's go with the vote each one to show the attitude towards the Bulgarian pensioners. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u198	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? I can't see. Line. There are no more speeches. Yeah. The last statement was this.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u199	Honourable Members, continue from the stands of the National Assembly speeches which I can describe as honest lies. The previous speaker first determined that, in the last term, the United Patriarchs were a ruling political force. [[Replications from OP.]] Absolutely, absolutely false, IMRO wasn't involved in management in the last term. A second lie was definitely that we had 21 MPs in the last parliament. Absolutely not true! Absolutely not true! The United patriots came in with 19 MPs. At the time of the vote on the budget and the proposal for 300 BGN, which was ours, the group constituted 17 MPs. The next lie is about the vote. In the re-vote for 300 leva. Of the 17 MPs from the "United patriots" voted 14, three were absent on that day, were not for respectable reasons here. So check the transcripts, check the protocols and let's not manipulate the public opinion, as the debate from today's National Assembly meeting will be broadcast. And what you are trying to impress on Bulgarian citizens is an absolute lie and does not respond in any way to the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u200	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. [[Applause from OP.]] Second line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Svilensky, will there be?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u201	I thank you, Madam President, for the opportunity given, once again to tell the Bulgarian citizens why they do not have 300 BGN today. pension. Mr. Bogdanov, I have corrected you are not 21, 17 you are, but it is a fact that four votes did not pass, and four votes were not from you. Four votes were gone from you! It's a fact! There's the shorthands. Put that down. How many people were in the gym yesterday? [[Replications from OP.]] Nineteen. Do you know how many votes didn't pass the offer for 300 leva?! Seven. Well, Bulgarian citizens, you know why you don't have 300 BGN. Because those 20 people lied to you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Because they let you down because they voted against having 300 leva. minimum pension. Keep trusting them, because with your voices they do then...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u202	What?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u203	...trades. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u204	Colleagues, I'm closing the debate. Procedure, Mr. Ivanov? I closed the debate, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u205	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Madam President, I suggest that you put to the vote the procedure for extending the time of today's plenary session to 20:00 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u206	Until 20 o'clock. Procedure? We have such understanding at the Conference of Presidents. [[Replys on the left.]] Let's announce this procedure and I'll give you the floor. If it's not related to reverse procedure, I'll give you the floor. Please vote on Mr. Ivanov's procedure for extending the working time of the National Assembly until 20:00 p.m. Vote 217 MPs: for 176, against 17, abstention 24. The motion is accepted. Mr. Chenchev, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u207	Thanks for the opportunity. Dear Madam President, dear Mr. and Mrs. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The procedure will really be very brief for me and it consists of the following. Madam President, since there are many important votes to come from now on so that there are no calls from the back of the House, please, after showing the results of the votes, give the results of the vote and groups to each vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Please be on each vote, put it in groups, without announcing it all the time, because I might miss. Colleagues, we'll start with the vote. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Kristina Taskova and a group of MPs. Colleagues, because we're all voting at once, the system is shutting down. Wait a minute, everyone will be able to vote. Just not that there's a problem, it's clogging up the system. Isn't that right? It's okay. There's a problem with me, too. Cancel the vote, I also have a problem, and many of my colleagues. Cancel this vote. Please vote on Mrs. Taskova's unsupported proposal and a group of MPs. [[Noise and lines.]] I have cancelled the vote and we are now voting again. In rare cases, the House is so full and so many MPs want to vote, so these problems come about. We'll wait for the coworkers. I can see they've all been able to vote. They voted 219 MPs: 104, against 12, abstention 103. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. They voted 215 MPs: 102, against 12, abstention 101. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Please vote. Vote 218 MPs: 106 against 28, abstention 84. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u209	Thank you, Madam President. I want a re-vote procedure because the group of the United Patriarchs may have gone wrong in the vote. [[Heckling]] We want the re-voting, so that after a year there are no disputes about who was present in the Chamber, how many people there were, who supported what and what did not support.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u210	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. I get it...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u211	At present there are 20 people from the United Patriarchs and not one of them supports... [[The National Representative continues to speak to off microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u212	No, Mr. Gokov, the procedure is clear! [[Noise and lines.]] The procedure is clear! Order, please! I re-vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 221 MPs: 108, against 44, abstention 69. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines. Communicating.]] Let's move on to the vote. Order, please! We are going to vote on the version of Paragraph 3 of the Commission Report. Vote 216 MPs: 129, against 74, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u213	Thank you, Madam President. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ Those submitted until the entry into force of Paragraph 3 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 10 applications under the repealed art. 69d of the Social Security Code for the grant of pension shall be dealt with in the current order. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. The applications submitted before the entry into force of Paragraph 3, points 21 and 22 of Part Two, of the Social Security Code for the transfer of pension rights shall be dealt with in the new order. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up new paragraphs 6 and 7: ........................................................... In excess of the planned expenditure on the budget of state social security, the Council of Ministers may approve an additional transfer under the budget of state social security under the Public Finance Act. § 7. Within one month of the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal, the Council of Ministers together with the National Insurance Institute and the National Health Insurance Fund shall carry out an analysis and develop measures to limit the abuse of short-term cash benefits under the Social Security Code. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In the National Security Service Act (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 116, para. 1, t. 3 (c) The words "s53 years' shall be replaced by the words "s55 years' and shall be replaced by the words "s55 years'. Proposal of the MP Dimitar Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 9: ..................................................... In the Law on State Agency "National Security" (prom., SG No. ...) in art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1, p, 1 the number The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u214	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. I vote on: the amendments to paragraphs 4 and 5 of the Commission Report; the creation of new paragraphs 6 and 7 supported by the Commission; the version of § 6 which becomes § 8 of the Commission Report; the new § 9 created by the Commission; the text of the importer of § 7 which becomes § 10, and § 8 which becomes § 11, supported by the Commission. They voted 122 MPs: for 103, against 19, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u215	First, I ask for a re-vote and a separate vote on the paragraph concerning... [[Definitions between MP Philip Popov and Chairman Tsveta Karayancheva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u216	I will put to the vote the re-vote procedure, but then they are two separate procedures... Firstly, we must put to the vote the separate vote on all the paragraphs, i.e. all the paragraphs to be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u217	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u218	Okay. [[Noise and lines.]] However, Mr. Popov, we voted them in full. All we can do is rethink, and only a re-vote procedure can we vote. I'm rethinking the paragraphs I read just now from § 4 to § 8, which becomes § 11. They voted 122 MPs: 102, against 18, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. For a negative vote, Mr. Yankov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u219	Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against it and I strongly oppose the increase in the retirement years of the employees of the National Service from 53 years of age to 55 years of age, and of the employees of the State Agency from 60 to 63 years of age. This proposal with transitional and final budget provisions, without discussion, without taking the opinion of the regular staff, is simply your decision, without complying with the reality of these two power offices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u220	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. [[Noise and lines.]] Mrs. Angelova, please also offer the voting apps.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u221	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! The following are Annexes 1 to 5, which the Commission supports by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Please vote on Annexes 1 to 5 by importer, which the Commission supports. They voted 115 MPs: for 103, against 12, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Popov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u223	Thank you, Madam President. With regard to the proper reading of my vote, I declare from the stand that, in paragraphs 8 and 9, I voted for.......................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u224	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Colleagues, we have completed the work on the state social security budget. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u225	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I would like to propose an increase in the time limit for written proposals under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems, No 902-01-61, to the maximum period of three weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u226	You're asking for a maximum deadline, okay. Please vote. They voted 114 MPs: 105, against 5, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. And the second procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u227	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, again on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the deadline for proposals under the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, 902 01 62, to be extended by another six days, i.e. until 10 December inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u228	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Please vote on the procedure Mr. Ivanov made. 110 MPs voted: 106, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW PROJECT FOR THE STATE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA FOR 2020 Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u229	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am making the procedural proposal to invite at least the Minister of Finance to see this law. Thank you. [[Reply from GERB: "He is here. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u230	Minister Goranov is here, so we can proceed calmly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u231	Dear Mr. Chairman, I ask for a procedure for admission in the hall by the Ministry of Finance: Rositsa Velkova Zheleva.. Deputy Minister of Finance, Dobrin Penjurov. Director of the Directorate of Budget, Vladimir Petrov Director of the Directorate of State Expenditure..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u232	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. Voted 103 MPs: 100, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite the admitted persons to the Chamber. Please continue with the presentation of the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u233	"The State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020" The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u234	Statements? I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. They voted 109 MPs: for 101, against 6, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u235	Under art. 1 has a proposal of the MP Vasil Antonov and group: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1, II Costs, i.e. The 5th number s..81 400,0s. is replaced by.80 500,0s. 2. In para. 1, II Costs, i.e. 5,1 the number..80 000,0..................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Julian Angelov and Georgi Yordanov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in Section I, Revenues, benefits and donations: - in line I. Revenue, aids and donations the number - on line one. Tax revenue the number of sq.25 029,700,0s. is replaced by sq.25 030 070,0s. 2. In para. 2, Section III "Budget relationships (transfers) " " net': (a) in row III. Budgetary relationships (transfers) (b) in row 1. Transfers provided for: the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva and Ivan Chenchev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2 the following amendments and additions shall be made in Section III "Budget relationships (transfers) ': 1. Line one. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 2. Row 1.6 shall be created: ..1.6. Additional funds for the implementation of PMS 129 of 2000 to determine minimum differentiated amounts of money for physical education and sport 3 200,0 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Krasimir Bogdanov and Julian Angelov: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments shall be made: (a) in para. 1, in Section I, Revenues, benefits and donations: - in row I. Revenues, aids and donations the number - on line one. Tax revenue the number..25 029,700,0.. is replaced by.25 031 571,1. (b) in para. 2, Section III "Budget relationships (transfers) ': - in Row III. Budgetary relationships (transfers) - on line one. Transfers provided for: the number - in row 1.1, the municipality number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Maria Tsvetkova and group: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments shall be 1. In para. 1, in Section I, Revenues, benefits and donations: (a) of row I. Revenues, aids and donations the number (b) in row 1. Tax revenue the number..25 029,70,0 " is replaced by..25 029,825,0. 2. In para. 2, Section III "Budget relationships (transfers) ': (a) in row III. Budgetary relationships (transfers) (b) in row 1. Transfers provided for: the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and group: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) of row I. Revenue, aids and donations the number (b) in row 1. Tax revenue the number..25 029,770.0.. is replaced by..26 827 866,0. (c) of row 1.1. Corporate tax the number of the number of the company is replaced by the number of the company of the company of the company of the company of the company of the company of the company of the company (d) of row 1.2. Taxes on dividends, liquidation shares and incomes of legal persons the number (e) of row 1.3. Income taxes on natural persons the number (f) of row 1.4. The value added tax is replaced by the value added value of 11 730 000,0 and is replaced by the value added tax of 11 844 997,5. (g) of row 1.5. The number of the actcizi is replaced by the number (h) of row 1.7. Customs duties and customs duties shall be replaced by 2. In para. 2: (a) in Section II. Costs: - in line two. The cost of the number s. s.14 346 274,3 "s.' is replaced by s.15 896 574,3 "s.'; - on line one. Operating costs the number ss 11 327 108.1 is replaced by s11 934 951.6 - in row 1.1. Staff number s. 5 768 103.0, is replaced by s. 6 096 973.8. - in row 1.2. Subsidies and other current transfers the number - in line 1.2.1. Subsidies and other current transfers to non-financial corporations the number - in row 1.4. Current transfers, benefits and benefits to households the number - in row 2. Capital expenditures the number - in row 2.1. The acquisition of fixed assets and the major repair of the number?2 468 - Row 5. is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. Reserve for the sustainable development of regions, unforeseen and/or emergency costs 881 400,0. - Row 5.4 is created: "B" is equal National Investment Fund 500 000,0 - create row 5.5: "5." Fund for North-West Region 300 000,0 (b) in Section III. Budgetary relations (transfers) - net: - in line III. Budgetary relationships (transfers) - on line one. Transfers provided the number - in row 1.1. The municipality number "six hundred twenty-six fifty-five-five-five' is replaced by five-six-five-six-eight-eight-eight-three. - in row 1.2. State social security, the number?4 312 531,4? is replaced by?4 905 391,5? - a row 1.6 is created: ..1.6. State Higher Schools 25 000,0 (c) in Section IV. Contribution to the general budget of the European Union: - in line IV. An contribution to the general budget of the European Union is replaced by a contribution to the total budget of the European Union. 3. In para. 3, Row V. Budget balance the number 4. In para. 4, row VI. Operations in the part of the financing 5. They're creating an al. 5.. The resources of the reserve under para. 1 Section II, row 5.4. and 5.5. shall be spent on the basis of an act of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Finance. (6) The Northwestern Region Fund shall be managed by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. (7) The National Investment Fund shall be managed by the Minister of Economy. (8) The sources of funds for the funds under para. 5 shall be planned in the central budget and managed in order and manner as an account with EU funds. For this purpose, the Minister of Finance shall submit a draft regulation, which shall be validated by the Council of Ministers. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposed by MP Mustafa Karadaye and group: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 1 Section I Revenues, benefits and donations 1 the number..25 029 770.0 thousand. lv. is changed by "25 189 770.0 thousand." the following point (a) is inserted: 1.1 C. 1.5. the number s 5 685 100.0 thousand. To be replaced by 5 845 100,0 thousand. lv. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. 1.2. the number s. 1 079 877.9 thousand. lv. size to be replaced by the number lv. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2 Section III Budgetary relations (transfers) - net, i.e. 1 the number. "12, 257,473,7 thousand. To be replaced by 12 417 473,7 thousand. lv. 3.1 C. 1.1..4 202 555.5 thousand. To be replaced by 4 362 555.5 thousand. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dora Ilieva Yankova: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2, II of row 5.1. for the prevention, management and overcoming of the consequences of disasters, the number lv. for riverbeds in cities and settlements......................................................................................................... II. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2 III of row 1.1. for the municipalities the number..4 202 555.5. is replaced by the number..5 202 555.5.... for municipal roads and community The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Dimitar Lazarov, Plamen Nunev and Valentin Kasabov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2, Costs, i.e. The amount increased by 47,0 thousand. lv. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dora Yankova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 1: Art. 1. (1) Accepts the state budget for 2020 for revenue, aid and donations, as follows under the attached table. (2) It shall adopt the state budget for 2020 on expenditure, budgetary relations and contribution to the general budget of the European Union, as follows on an attached table. (3) Confirms the budget balance of the State budget for 2020, as follows by the attached table. (4) Confirms not the operations in the part of the financing of the budget balance under the State budget for 2020, as follows under the attached table.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u236	My fellow Members, I am opening the debates. You have the floor for speeches. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u237	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm making a procedural proposal............................................................................................ 1 of the State Budget Act to be voted as the last member. The reasons are: here is the philosophy of this law, here are the basic policies and it depends on how all funds will be distributed in individual members from here on out. You know, we've had this argument many times over the years. You know that we have tabled our proposals to amend the Public Finance Act, which have been rejected, you also know that changes made later in other articles, when accepted in previous budgets, are rejected on the grounds that it is the acceptance of art. 1 Depreciates such discussions. I'm making a procedural proposal............................................................................................ 1 to be voted at the end, after the vote of all the other members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u238	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Inverse offer please, dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u239	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, I am making a reverse proposal. I shouldn't be doing this, but I will say why I would support the normal vote and why it is normal art. 1 to be voted in a row and then, naturally, to consider the other proposals made by the Members of the National Assembly on the left and by the entire Chamber. My fellow Members, firstly, there is also a constitutional solution in this regard, and you know it very well, so I think it is quite normal the logic of the proposed budget by the Council of Ministers, which a few weeks ago we were looking at the first vote, then at the Commission. I think it's okay to... [[Heckling]] Sorry, guys, you can't hear me. [[Heckling]] I get it. Thank you. However, colleagues, I wanted to finish and say why I think that it should remain a normal order and be voted first. 1 in the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. Because it really reflects the revenues and costs that the state is expected to make. I think this is the normal move and the system of budget voting, as it has so far, in previous years, always has been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u240	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 146 MPs: 55, against 74, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. Come in, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u241	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I want a re-vote. It was obvious that attempts are being made to gather the people in the Chamber, let all the MPs gather in the Chamber. I only recall that a year and a half ago, when you rejected such a proposal, then a small change in the budget text made it three times voted, and we went to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u242	Argument only for revoting, dear Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u243	Debates can take place now, the vote must be final and this is the normal procedure. The rest isn't normal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u244	Thank you. It's a re-vote. Vote 154 MPs: 59, against 82, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. Go ahead, Mr. Tsipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please put to the vote in the plenary to be admitted during the discussion of the State Budget Bill for 2020. Georg Georgiev Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u246	I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission made in this House. They voted 143 MPs: 128, against 2, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Please invite those admitted to the courtroom. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Gechev, you made a statement, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u247	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will start the unusually brief analysis by saying that the criticisms of the GERB Party and their satellites regarding the effectiveness of their budgetary policy are completely unfounded. And the reason is very simple: they do not have a budgetary policy and there is no way to assess effectiveness from this point of view as a policy. There's a budget, there's an accounting approach, there's an even budget, but there's no policy. What are the arguments? Continuing the action of the flat tax to, adopted by the Triple Coalition, is a refusal of budget and fiscal policy, as the tax is flat. No matter what groups of goods are consumed, the tax is flat in terms of income of individuals and in terms of income from corporate tax. There is nothing related to Bulgaria's economic development in terms of economic growth and the solution of regional problems, which is why we propose concrete solutions. Firstly, we do not agree with the clearly and intentionally imposed pessimistic forecasts for gross domestic product, in the last three years the gap between the forecasts of the ruling coalition with the leader GERB on the level of gross domestic product and the actual reported gross domestic product. I would like to remind you that our arguments have proved real because the reported gross domestic product in 2017, 2018, obviously in 2019 will be even higher than our forecasts. The deliberate reduction of gross domestic product, respectively of budget revenues, is made with different objectives, including that the so-called artificial surplus can be redistributed by the government without the sanction of the Bulgarian Parliament. What do we suggest? Key proposals in art. 1 that concerns the entire budget. Firstly, we strongly propose progressive taxation. Progressive taxation is dominant in the European Union. We have said a hundred times that there is no developed country, there is no country that has been developing and has become developed without progressive taxation. We offer moderate progressive taxation, in fact half of the average indicators of developed countries in the European Union. This step is necessary because we do not agree with the deepening social polarisation. The index of Ginny, the Italian economist Corrado Ginny, for Bulgaria is 40, the European average of 28.9; for Eastern European countries, former socialist, is under 30. Bulgaria is not only the poorest, but the most socially polarized country. With the introduction of a progressive tax, we will solve economic problems, solve social problems and restore socio-economic justice. The second group of proposals relate to budgetary and fiscal policy through the differentiated VAT rate. Dear colleagues, what are the facts about Europe? France - 20% VAT total; 10% for food groups, soft drinks, cultural and sporting events, 5.5% for medical equipment, for certain types of food, for books; 2.1% for other drug groups. The Republic of France has a 5-speed differentiated rate. Federal Republic of Germany: 19% total VAT; 7% for food, books and medical services, culture, sport; zero rate for certain transport services. What are our sisters doing? The Czech Republic - four rates of VAT in total - 21%, then 15, 10, zero percent; Hungary - four rates - 27%, 18%, 5%, zero percent. We offer European practices. We want to apply the European experience of progressive taxation and a differentiated approach in VAT. BSP's third key proposal is also related to linking the budget to economic development. We are practically against double capital expenditure cuts and, I am finishing, we are offering an investment fund of 800 million. BGN, which will reduce regional differences, will keep young people and the population in the backward regions and will make the growth of 4.5% possible. There is an alternative, it is read in specific data and is pro-European. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u248	Are there any lines? Mr. Shopov's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u249	Mr. Gechev, with such an aplomb you speak, so convince us you are absolutely right. And we want, of course, GERB also want, from other political forces, to have a differentiated rate of VAT in Bulgaria. But do I have to explain to you by being one of the people who best knows what this is all about in this country? It's not up to us, Mr. Gechev, let's face it from the stand. I have always reminded that almost half the time of transition you ruled from BSP. Why didn't you move? Why didn't you do something in the meantime? You remember that value added tax was introduced in the distant 1994 on 1 March. Since then, there have been forces watching over this to be a major tax, because it is on the population, on consumers, because it is most easily collected and for many other reasons, which are somewhat theoretical, are somewhat dictated by the practice anyway. This is one of the criteria for judging which party is systemic and which is not systemic. What a systemic party means we all know very well that has obeyed certain conditions that have been imposed on us as a defeated state in the undisputed third world cold war and have nowhere to go. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Come on, don't lie! As before, it was said that if BSP came to power, it would increase pensions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u250	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u251	These are things that have parameters, the pattern is set...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u252	Mr. Shopov, please finish!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u253	This is the model, and if we all rise up, we all decide not to be, only in this case, with joint efforts can we get rid of this situation. What should the honourable Minister do? He also knows very well what this is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u254	Second line? I can't see. A hole, dear Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Shopov, I partly agree with you. What I do not agree with is: firstly, yes, indeed VAT has been introduced 1994. Since then it has not been changed, but needs to be changed. I disagree with the conclusion that someone is imposing undifferentiated VAT on us. There are no political and other reasons, there is no argument that Western European countries or our partners should not accept a differentiated rate. If you're referring to the Monetary Council, this is another conversation that doesn't belong here in the budget. If there are restrictions, they are with the Monetary Council Act, which was introduced, we introduced it together with the International Monetary Fund, but in this case we are discussing the budget. I assure you, there are no political, external or internal reasons to oblige Bulgaria to maintain a value added tax, with the only exception for tourism of 9%. Of course, for your question, when I said that I partly agree, it is related to the disproportion between direct and indirect taxes and why rich countries need us to collect more indirect taxes and to have an interest. Direct taxes are on the income of individuals and companies. The indirects are basically VAT, excise duties and some others, but these are basic. The more we are tied to filling the budget with indirect taxes, the more filling will depend on trade turnover. If I ask the question from the trade turnover, including colleague Goranov, when we enter the supermarket, I ask our students what goods do you see, how many of the goods inside are Bulgarian? Of the groceries are only 20%. Yeah, some unofficially have an interest in filling our budget like that. We don't have that kind of interest. We want to see more Bulgarian goods on the shelves, which means that we want Bulgaria's budget to be linked to our economic development, as it is in the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary, France and other countries. So it is mainly our fault, Bulgarian. There's no reason to blame our partners for something they're not responsible for. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u256	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. We continue with the speeches. Here you are, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u257	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, Ministers! The proposal that Julian Angelov and I are making in the revenue section of the budget is related to art. 50 in the expenditure section, which affects the activities of the community centers and regional libraries. The motivations that make me make this proposal will put into the spending part, but in a few words, to paint the reason for this proposal. It is a fact that the twenty-seven regional libraries to the proposed figures in the budget by the Council of Ministers have so far managed to cover some of the expected increases in the Fund "Work salary" but they cannot catch up with the ten per cent foreseen in the budget sector. I believe that regional libraries are extremely important and, in the end, corresponding to the administrative division of the country are not so much a cost for a budget such as that of the state, these costs, which amount to 263 thousand, can be borne. lv. In terms of community centers. What is currently at stake is, of course, a good step, in line with the figures that are in this year 2019, but we consider it not sufficient to carry out the full work of the Chitalishtes. Yes, these funds will be enough for the Fund of Work pay, probably for some benefits and for funds that will be linked to other costs of the direct and so on, but in no way will we have the funds to assist the Chitalishtes in their specific activities in the implementation of the cultural programme which they have bet on themselves. We know that the larger municipalities manage to finance the activities of the Chitalishte, but in the smaller settlements where these culture centers are the only cultural institution, there are almost no funds left to develop some cultural activity. That is why we are making proposals in the Income section, as in art. 1, para. 1 in row one: "Accounts, aids and donations" we propose that the number..28038582.7 "to be replaced by.2804038.1". This is an increase of 1 million. 801 thousand. £400. in the revenue section, which is transferred to para. 2, Section III "Budget relationships, transfers and nets" where the figures change with the corresponding 1 million. 801 thousand. £400. I believe that this proposal will give a chance and a breath of air to the Chitalishtes and regional libraries to have better conditions and better opportunities to develop their activities, namely a quality cultural service to the inhabitants of the settlements who are users of the cultural service of the Chitalishtes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u258	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Popov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I will draw attention to an extremely difficult issue, which has been neglected by this government for decades, concerning the Northwest region of Vidin, Vratsa and Montana. In our budget proposals, we have proposed to create a targeted, special fund "Northwest" in which there are 300 million. lv. We have also planned where this money will come from because the region will continue to alienate itself from Bulgaria and the gap between it and Europe will continue to grow, although it is geographically closest to the West, to Europe, but financially, economically and socially it is the furthest and is located in the third world countries. Without the development of this strategic region for Bulgaria Bulgaria itself as a country would not have the necessary development and uplift, because it is extremely important, it is the entrance and exit of Bulgaria to Western Europe. The northwest, unfortunately, is at the bottom of all the rankings of poverty, income, unemployment, demographic disaster. There is no way out of this Paragraph 22 alone because there is no investment in the Northwest because there are no people, no footage and no footage because there is no investment. That's how we've been spinning for decades in this enchanted circle. The people of the Northwest made a petition and we are collecting signatures for the creation of this fund. Without a clear vision, a policy that outlines the care of the state for decades for this region, the gap between it and the rest of Bulgaria will continue to deepen. This is unacceptable because the Northwestern region is also part of Bulgaria, and it is an essential, important part. There still live, albeit as a reserve, worthy Bulgarians, worthy people giving their tribute, their glue to the development of Bulgaria. They deserve the state to take care of them. That is why we have created this text in our proposals and I hope that we will support it at least those colleagues who are from the Northwest and from the other political forces, and the BSP for Bulgaria is very much going to support this text because it is also our proposal for the creation of such a fund a target fund for the Northwest, of this amount of 300 million. lv. I think it's not only necessary, it's mandatory. You know, there was an initiative here a year ago in Montana, I think it was either in the Northwest, part of this region to move on to Romania. This is a cry for help from the people of the Northwest, this is an appeal to you, the government and to this government, to pay special attention to Northwestern Bulgaria, because it, as I said, is, according to the latest data, at the bottom of all possible negative rankings. Therefore, please support this proposal concerning the Northwest. I also address the people of the Northwest: You will not remain forgotten at least by the BSP for Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u260	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Lalo Kirilov follows in the order of the requests for speeches, then Mr. Ivanov, Mr. Tishev, Nikolay Ivanov, Dora Yankova, Dimitar Danchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u261	Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will draw attention to a few fundamental data with which next year the revenue and macro-frame of the budget are planned. In the updated budget forecast, we see that for 2019 the gross domestic product amounts to 3.4%. As the Ministry also mentioned, the main engine of the gross domestic product is growth, this is internal consumption, which you have recorded is 5.7%. But here, looking a little further down, you can see that the main engine of this consumption is imports of goods and services, but unlike other years, it was 0.2 in 2019. When I look at this data, the question comes to me: is this not some kind of articulation and is the data real, because in previous years, the import of goods and services has always been ahead of domestic consumption? That's where a few more questions about next year's revenue come from. You know, Minister, that the main engine of the economy in Bulgaria is construction. It is a kind of automobile construction for Germany and whenever construction is in growth, tax revenues are easily collected and always the budget treasury is full. We see that construction is reducing its growth rate, which is not and will not be a problem this year, but if it continues this year, and at the end of it, the revenue portion of the budget will be threatened. Minister, you in the adoption of the tax laws package have not been able to pass some of your frameworks and norms with which to collect taxes more effectively from the sector, so I am worried if you will be able to carry out your revenue at the end of the year and the next 2021. The next item, which will be the last in my speech, is cost effectiveness. Every time you say that this budget is more than the same. Yes, it is evident that in the budget you really give more by sector, but the cost effectiveness does not affect and this is observed in the health sector. I think that with these fundamental problems next year, there will really be a problem in the budget, and more precisely in the revenue section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u262	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Are there any lines? Mr. Ivan Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u263	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! It is no coincidence that at the beginning of the viewing of the Law on the State Budget, we proposed art. 1 to watch at the end. The reason for this I will repeat it once again: this is philosophy, this is the framework of the budget, and by voting it and accepting it in this form, we are largely making any further comments and discussions on this subject, even if we have a vote that will lead to some change and acceptance of opposition proposals, this thing will not give the necessary effect. It is for this reason that I will try, although the short time we have at second reading, to persuade you to support our proposals. It is no coincidence that we have looked at every single detail of the budget and have set different parameters than those proposed by the Ministry of Finance, of course, for one single purpose: for real policies to enter into this budget. To enter policies that will be addressed precisely to those sectors that we have noticed over the years that they have the necessary gaps, the necessary deficits that are largely reflected and detrimental to some of the portfolios. I think that Mr. Goranov could very much agree, because in this way, with our proposals to increase some of the revenue parts of the budget, he will untie to a large extent his hands in terms of what needs to be done, as in the sector.......................... I'll make an analogy with the graduation of this year. The other day, data came out that there is a small part to be spent, that is, an excess in the state budget, namely our proposals, enabling these surpluses to be foreseen in the very vote of the budget on the relevant ministries, in the relevant sectors where a shortage has been observed during the year. Here just a few hours ago, we voted on the Law on State Social Security, yesterday we voted on the Health Insurance Act and commented on what gaps there are, what shortcomings. To a large extent, this will make it easier for the Ministry of Finance and the Prime Minister when he distributes the funds from this surplus so that all beneficiaries, i.e. municipalities, to whom no money has been reached, with what we propose, can actually have a financial resource that can meet their needs, which are not small at all, as it turned out. We spoke here in a debate with Mr. Goranov regarding water. Mr. Goranov, I think that with our proposal we are giving you the opportunity to revise these policies as well, because the increase in revenues, for example, with excise duties, with the indirect, direct taxes that we have made, will give you a really serious opportunity to do what the opposition wants, which your voters, of course, are putting as accents, as commitments in the talks about them. Because, you know, in every field there are its demands, its shortcomings, which you are looking for a way to realize. So, honourable Members, I call on you very carefully to review all that has been proposed by the opposition as texts, as options in art. 1, because, once again, let me remind you by voting art. 1, by voting on the general budget framework, from here on out, whatever we talk, it's gonna be like talking. Indeed, one appeal, one appeal: to accept all these proposals that have been made here at the moment, so that we can ultimately have a working budget that satisfies, of course, not 100% of everyone's demands, but to a large extent to get closer to the need of both the relevant ministries and ordinary citizens, where the ministries must make the necessary efforts to achieve and the results they are looking for. After all, none here in this Chamber is looking for anything to do that is to the detriment of one or another, and I think that BSP's proposals in this direction are, not to say, the most working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u264	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Tishev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u265	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! For another year we offer in art. 1 of the State Budget Act, where the framework of revenue and expenditure is, to have an increase in revenue, respectively the planned costs. Why are we offering an increase in revenue? Firstly, because, as everyone in this House knows, at the end of the year, the budget is considered to be an excess. This is known even by the children outside this hall: that since GERB manages the ministers of finance, perhaps with the exception of Djankov, they always place the parameters in the state budget, in the treasury, more money than is laid down in this document, which we are currently discussing. And even at the end of last year, a few days after we adopted the state budget for 2019, Mr. Goranov admitted in the show that he was actually expecting higher gross domestic product, understand higher revenues in the state budget, and he pointed out such figures, just as we had, by the way, set in our alternative budget for 2019. Secondly, because we believe that we have worn out the technology to underestimate revenue, therefore to give real or overvalued costs, and at the end of the year to raise more money. And then we all begin to understand the Ministry of Finance and the Council of Ministers, to beat themselves on the chest and to say how the revenue agencies work so well that they collect more revenue, how the government creates such good living conditions and the business environment that, on the one hand, the business works more and pays more taxes, on the other hand, the salaries of the Bulgarian workers are increased and hence automatically direct and indirect taxes increase, respectively the budget is filled. Clearly, none of these three things are true. Firstly, on wages, we are the last in the European Union. We have a dramatic decline in foreign direct investment and how much taxes are collected and how well the revenue agencies work, given that around 30% is the grey sector in Bulgaria, that is to say, no taxes, no direct or indirect collection, including VAT, I think everyone can answer their own questions. Next, because with the increase in government spending, after we increase the revenues and reassign them through the costs, we are thus directly stimulating the Bulgarian economy, which will automatically return as an increase in revenues in the state budget at the next moment. Because by increasing revenues in the state budget we give the opportunity to increase the incomes of Bulgarian citizens and those with the lowest incomes. Bear in mind that this will also automatically support the economic development of Bulgaria, because people with the lowest incomes, whether it be pensions or salaries, will not start this increase to save it. They will bring it directly into trade, and local trade, which will stimulate the economy and finally lead to economic growth, what we need very much. Last but not least, because through the increase of revenues and then the distribution of this money through expenditure, we want to help the Bulgarian municipalities, which are closest to the Bulgarian population. And in previous debates it has been said that this is the way to bet the parameters in the state budget, that in the end it is always a surplus, and municipal budgets are chronically underfunded. And the municipalities - here's an example - they provide 80% of the social services for the benefit of the population, with what money to do that? Well, let's back them up! And perhaps lastly, why are we offering this increase in revenue? Because we simply want to implement the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, where it is said that the National Assembly distributes revenue and expenditure, and not real revenue and expenditure, rather than post-factum by decree of the Council of Ministers Prime Minister. In conclusion: the state budget is not some sort of grocery account where we just have to level revenue and expenditure and we are done. The state budget is an instrument, it is a policy on how the country will develop next year, in what directions, what our priorities are, and in the longer term, in the three-year financial period. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Yeah, I'm done. And since it is not the Ministry of Finance that votes or determines the state budget, and this National Assembly, we are the people who will determine the allocation, we will determine the amount of revenue and expenditure. I think it is our calling to correct Mr. Goranov's forecast and adopt a fairer, more real budget...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u266	Please, dear Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u267	...and a more realistic distribution of revenue and expenditure of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u268	- What's the line? You have the right to speak. You have the floor, Minister Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u269	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to provide statistical information for the last few years regarding the revenue planned under the state budget and their implementation. Because the fact is that the government, in accordance with the Public Finance Act and its role in the Constitution to implement the budget, has the opportunity to vary according to the Public Finance Act certain cost indicators. However, I would like to issue statistics on the plan and the implementation of revenue on the state budget in the relevant years for the last few, in order to channel the debate on the incorrect planning of revenue and the use of the so-called surplus, which we call an ongoing excess of revenue over expenditure in the respective periods of implementation of the consolidated fiscal programme. For 2016, by law in this House, we have planned to proceed to the state budget of 20 billion. The Commission 591 thousand. 500 leva. As a result of the implementation of the budget under the state budget, 20 billion were received in the same year. The Commission 341 thousand, or overrun revenue by 64 million. 749 thousand. 500 BGN, or the deviation from the forecast is 0.3%. In 2017 in the state budget we have foreseen 21 billion to take place. The Commission Five thousand. 400 BGN, the report showed 22 billion. The Commission 227,000. 200 BGN, or an excess of 300 M. Two hundred and 800 leva, percentage and four tenths. For 2018, the State Budget Bill provides for 23 billion. The Commission Seven hundred and 100 leva. As a result of the implementation in the state budget, 23 billion received. The Commission 393 thousand. 300 BGN, or 300 M. 620,000. 200 leva. more, which is 1.3 percent. For 2019, colleagues, the state budget is scheduled to receive 25 billion. The Commission 229,000. £800. Our expectations are to date in the state budget to be 25 billion. The Commission 469 thousand. 300 BGN, or 53 million. 830,000. 500 leva. less, which is a default of 0,2%. I would like to assure you that the current budget implementation statistics allow for certain flexibility in terms of the expenditure part of the budget. It is inherent not only in the delegation of art. Art. 105, Art. 106 of the Constitution and the fact that the executive is ultimately obliged to have the opportunity to react in certain situations. I would also like to assure you, because this is often the centre of debate, that at no moment the government has broken the State Budget Act, as far as at no moment the government has spent, as opposed to previous years, when such an opportunity existed in the State Budget Act and in the State Budget Structure Act, the government has not spent any lev, not a penny, not a tenth of the penny of the surplus. The big debate on the quality of planning, if it comes down to 1.4%, the biggest mistake we made in 2017, I apologize to the MPs, but still 1.2% mistake in planning can be made, especially when we are talking about such huge aggregates and such long-term periods where the economy can take whatever direction it chooses. What I want to assure you is that for next year the budget is planned in the same conservative way. I expect us to catch up on this default of 0.3% this year. Hopefully next year we'll hit him to zero. But I assure you that all the proposals you have made, colleagues, are more under art. 1 attitude will not be taken, led by our estimates, we may be mistaken, but still the Ministry of Finance employs better experts than in different party plants, whoever they were to a 4.5% deficit compared to the consolidated fiscal programme. Until that, colleagues, they are taking all the measures that you have foreseen. Actually, it's a mistake! The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. Less than 4.5 per cent deficit, 4.5 billion lv. is the gap between revenue and expenditure if all proposals of colleagues from the left are incorporated into art. 1 of the Law. Not that the proposals you have made do not have their logic and reason, but the best expression of government policy is to seek a balance between priorities. You can't do this, guys. Everything's a priority. And there is no overrun of revenue. There is no overrun of revenue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u270	Thank you, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u271	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u272	In the manner of conduct! There's no other way.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's the way it's supposed to be. When honourable ministers speak in this Chamber, they must be conscientious.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u274	And speak the truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u275	And speak truths. When giving data on budget revenues, isn't it logical that he, the Minister, had to say the data on gross domestic product and explain why it was growing by 1.5 billion. lv. more than the forecast, and budget revenues are the same or decrease? That's very interesting. Second of all, there's a big lie coming up.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u276	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u277	Exactly how I'm supposed to explain it. What are these fiscal reserves that grow, honourable colleagues from GERB?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u278	I don't find my place here, dear Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u279	Where do these fiscal reserves come from...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u280	But if you don't come in and find my place...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u281	No, and in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u282	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u283	Do not let the ministers make assessments for party plants and others. Because besides party plants, there are doctors, there are docs, there are professors at the UNWE, at the Economic Institute of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, and they understand more than your experts at the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u284	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. [[M Minister Vladislav Goranov's reply.]] Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u285	Dear Mr. Chairman, I apologize if someone's expertise is damaged. I presented state financial statistics, which is carried out not only by the Ministry of Finance, but also by the National Statistical Institute. I can also provide data on gross domestic product. I don't know why anyone thought they were a member of someone's headquarters, but I gave them statistics. For a reason, I took a few years back so that there wouldn't be speculation about the manifestations of some conjuncture and one-off factors. I don't accept the Ministry of Finance being qualified by the word "liar." Today I'm the minister, tomorrow someone else. The use of the notion of lying to the state stand in the face of the Ministry of Finance is offensive when expressed by the parliamentary stand. I will not enter into the rhetoric of party leaders and deal with the notion of penal responsibility, but does not honor the people who teach young people to bring such a language and such attitude towards the firm of financial stability in the country. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u286	Thank you, dear Minister. In the context of the decision of the Conference of Presidents, Mr. Gechev...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u287	Punishment!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u288	Mr. Turnover, you? A statement? Wait, there's one before you, I'll record you. Mr. Nikolai Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u289	Procedure, procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u290	Because it's on this one...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u291	Who wants the way they run it? You! Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u292	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen and ladies ministers, honourable colleagues! If we were to carry out what is written in our Rules, and this is what we say every year in the budget, and we were discussing the implementation of the budget here in this House, this debate would not be held now. What are we doing? Every year, we sit all night to debate a budget that we may adopt tomorrow, and from the new year it will be changed as the minister of finance or the prime minister finds necessary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u293	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u294	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u295	I apologize, Mr. Turnovalysky. Find my place in your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u296	We don't see a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u297	I'm addressing you as currently performing the function...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u298	Yes, I'm in charge of the meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u299	...to implement the Rules and to submit the Report on the implementation of the state budget and to discuss it. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u300	Thank you. I haven't broken the rules so far. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u301	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! I will also join the justification presented by my colleague Philip Popov for the creation of the Northwestern Fund in art. 1 of the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is hardly necessary to convince you how important this region is to provide such a public investment, because poverty, poor infrastructure, unemployment, migration, the risk of social exclusion of large groups of people are undoubtedly characteristics, very visible and significant for this region where we are with it as MPs elected in this Parliament. I will take the time back and recall that such an effort was made in the period 2014 - 2016 when, with the efforts of all public authorities, from municipalities to state institutions, and with a huge part of the non-governmental sector, a targeted investment programme was created concerning not only the Northwestern region, but also other backward regions of the country. This targeted investment programme eventually sank into nothingness, was not adopted by the Council of Ministers and was not financed. I know very well what the honourable Minister of Finance's opinion of this programme is on the subject of information that we have asked the Committee on Regional Development for its destiny. His opinion, if I could formulate it with one sentence, was that perhaps the effect of its financing would be controversial. Therefore, Dear Minister, we are now proposing the reverse approach, of course, with priorities that we believe should be: financing integrated projects that also have the economic effect; naturally, improving infrastructure; developing a regional tourism product; investment in human capital; Parliament should provide these funds in the state budget. And you, the Ministry of Finance, of course, in dialogue with local authorities and with regional institutions to formulate the criteria for them to be effectively spent. I will set an example with my electoral area, which currently develops two very important economic projects, which will lead to the creation of thousands of jobs. If, at this time, such a fund helps the district city, an industrial zone will be developed, an industrial area that will provide prospects for more similar investors, for even more jobs in an extremely difficult socio-economic area. Along with this for years stands as an opportunity the realization of the project for the Oryahovo Bridge, Beckett, which will in any case bring a huge economic revival throughout the whole area, in the entire constituency. These are just examples of how such a fund if it is supported by all the MPs in today's vote on the Budget Bill, and I appeal to my colleagues from the Northwest, which I have no doubt will support it, but I also appeal for them to persuade their colleagues from their parliamentary groups to support this proposal. I am sure that with this we will give this region a huge chance and the people who live in it to stay there and see perspective and hope that Northwestern Bulgaria is also part of the possibility of future development, catching up with other regions and giving European perspectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u302	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? You have the floor for a line, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u303	All I want is a very short line and a suggestion by listening to my colleagues, now I remember. Firstly, it is clear to all of us that the distribution of the so-called surplus is not due to a serious overrun of revenue but to a default of expenditure. Each year, for years 1.5 billion. lv. are unused, unspent, spent. In this regard, I would like to return to the 40th Parliament by 2008, when we were negotiating association with the European Union, we were obliged by Brussels to have a committee or subcommittee on budget control. We created it in 2008, it worked, it was a subcommittee to the Committee on Budget and Finance. In almost all European countries there is either a committee or a subcommittee. Because colleagues are right, we get together, we kill each other for three days, we distribute the pieces of the pie, then we rely on the Court of Auditors to check it out. One check by the Court of Auditors is between a year and a year and a half, only after the results come out, another minister has gone away with a fee, at most a fine to pay. That's when this committee started working. By the way, in the Hungarian Parliament and in six other Parliaments, I remember these are committees given to the opposition, large oppositions. And my proposal here is not to the Minister of Finance and is not to the government, but to the leadership of the Bulgarian Parliament. Look at the practice and let's get back to that! Otherwise, three days of fighting and one year of power of the Minister of Finance and Government. [[(Voices: Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u304	Thank you. Any other lines? I won't. A hole, Mr. Ivanov. I won't. We continue with Mrs. Yankova's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u305	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Madame and Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament! It is natural from the Minister's statement that we should have another view of the revenue and expenditure. That is why we represent citizens, people poorer and, naturally, with greater concern, we look at the development of our country. Perhaps with the years and with most standing in the government, the senses and sensitivity of how Bulgaria develops are lost. In the first part..................................................................................... 1, in the revenue, I support the philosophy of the colleagues who developed it and is written in our proposal by Mr. Gechev and Mr. Tishev. I will focus on the spending part in terms of the policies that are missing. We propose another view of reducing the political and fiscal dependence of local authorities on the central government and we propose to strengthen the institute of local democracy. We sign this in two places as a policy in the budgetary relations of municipalities. We do not want municipalities to have handouts or distribution as stardust according to the mood of the government and as distribution, which does not give sustainable and regional development, but we offer about a billion and more increase in funds for the Bulgarian municipalities because we realize that these 19 800 km municipal roads with 200 million cannot be financed. We are also strengthening Parliament's attention that there are territories of the country, again I will repeat from this tribune, especially the periphery of the district cities for which there is no European money. There is no European funds from the Rural Programme and there is no European funds from the Regions in growth and we have been making a big regional contrast here for 14 years. Next, with extremely high sensitivity at the moment, the problems related to the waterless policy, infrastructure, water and sewerage in the territory of the country, where there is no European funds again. And when I say that we have another view because the capital expenditures, the infrastructure of the country with small exceptions, GERB's policy directs it only with funds from the European Union, for this reason our increase is quite drastic, but we have also pointed out the revenue source of the two percentage points of income tax. In parallel, we have great concern that the capital expenditure for the country as a whole is systematically not being implemented, including this year. I will turn again to the country's regional development policy as a whole and to the contrasts that are being created. We are behind in the policy for the full implementation of the highway ring. " 2021 will have no funds in terms of European financing of public roads and highways, we are going at a slow pace with regard to the introduction of the tol system. And now in the Regional Ministry, that money is gone, it's here, but it's estimated about 450, and it was supposed to be a million, it had to be a lot more. We are also behind in the policy that is for water reform. With the exception of the money from Operational Programmes, Environment and Rural Areas, there are huge territories. They now appear, they start shooting bomb at bomb, there will be problems with the water sector. For this reason we have proposed an increase in funds for the capital expenditure of the country. Because one of the main conclusions, including the Committee on Regional Development, of the Ministry itself and of the Committee on European Funds, is that, with European funding so far, we have deepened the interregional difference. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And two more suggestions: one that I do every year, and I end up, Mr President, in the means of the consequences of disasters, I will not stop repeating and, for God's sake, once the ruling majority is convinced that funds are needed for the riverbeds, because with taxes and with the reduction of the population in certain cities there is no means to precisely clean the riverbeds.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u306	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u307	So I ask you to see the other view that is useful so that the country can develop balanced and really municipalities...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u308	Please finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u309	...to be free Bulgarian municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u310	Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Danchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u311	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! BSP offers not only changes in numbers, but makes proposals for reforms through the budget, so as to ensure an economy to solve the main problems for our society. Next year will be reassigned to the proposal we have received from the Council of Ministers, more funds through the state budget compared to this year. Without the necessary reforms in the public sphere, however, the vast majority of this money will undoubtedly simply sink. For another year, BSP has lacked reforms and active measures for accelerated convergence with other countries in the European Union. In fact, for the impartial observer, this is a budget of good economic times, but the big question is whether this year is probably the last calm year for state finances before the expected slowdown in the global economy is felt for us. Even the Ministry of Finance published just days ago a fall macroeconomic forecast says the global economy will slow down more than expected this year and next. Mr. Goranov's ministry is working on a hypothesis of a slight slowdown in growth next year to 3.3% of gross domestic product, but this forecast for 2020 is even above the optimistic expectations of other institutions, such as the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and some of our banks. In the first half of this year, the trade balance is positive, but this is not because of increased export growth, but because of a greater drop in imports. As a result, net exports made a positive contribution to economic growth, but this will hardly be repeated in the second half of this year, as well as in the remaining several years until 2022. This is all the more true because Bulgaria's main trading partners from the European Union, Germany, Italy, France, show delays in their economic development throughout 2019 and this will undoubtedly affect the demand for Bulgarian goods in these countries. Practically all macroeconomic forecasts for Bulgaria highlight the negative role of the unstable geopolitical environment and growing protectionism, as well as the slowdown in China's economy. All these factors, as well as the continuing uncertainty about Brexit, can undoubtedly negatively affect Bulgarian exports. The uncertain external environment undoubtedly means lower private investments. By the way, this is confirmed by the Ministry of Finance itself. If half a year ago it was betting investment growth of 9.9% in 2019, now expectations are reduced to 1.9%. The Prime Minister said: "A plant after a factory builds, but the numbers of the Ministry of Finance stubbornly refuse to confirm it. In fact, given that Bulgaria continues to go down for another year in the World Bank's Doing Business ranking, I also believe that there is no way to expect high investor interest. Unfortunately, nowhere in this budget is the solution of any of the important problems for our country, although we at BSP at first reading paid special attention to these problems. Solving these problems is the only guarantor, as I said at the beginning, for economic growth and a better standard of living for Bulgarian citizens. That is why in BSP we have prepared our alternative budget in which we have proposed solutions or at least we are starting to solve the most important problems for our society and economy, of course. Nowhere in the government's proposals, despite the supposedly stable growth of the economy, there is talk of finding solutions to exit the demographic crisis, because it is clear to everyone that demographics remain the real long-term challenge for growth. It is clear that employment will decrease in the coming years due to the reduction of the working age population. Do you not think, fellow Members, that the demographic challenges will result in the torment of potential growth, as the labour force in the country continues to decline due to ageing and emigration? In our opinion, it is the demographic challenges that highlight the need for reforms. For example, measures to deal with functional illiteracy and to turn knowledge into skills could at least partially alleviate labour shortages, but the budget only talks about increasing salaries in the budgetary sphere, rather than solving specific and strategic problems. By the way, in addition to stimulating consumption, the budget does not provide for any incentives for the economy Therefore, as colleagues have said, we have proposed the creation of a special national investment fund of 800 million. lv. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. This reduction in capital expenditure for many analysts means that the state risks slowing down economic growth. The reason for this, in my opinion, is a lack of capacity to prepare projects. In fact, state investment is the safest means of increasing the potential of an economy. They can create infrastructure, but they can also prepare qualified labour and in general attract the interest of the private sector. Even the measures to create a favorable business environment...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u312	Thank you, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u313	I've got five more seconds. Please wait. Even measures to create a favourable environment, such as e-management and relief of administrative burdens, are also a type of state investment. So in the long run... [[GERB's line.]] Okay, I'll continue in my next speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u314	Thank you. Colleagues, we're interrupting work for 30 minutes. As announced at the beginning of the plenary session, today we will have two interruptions of work. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u315	First line to Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u316	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Danchev, in your speech you have long and detailed the macro framework of the budget, all its imperfections, but you have not affected in any way what we offer from the BSP, namely how we will stimulate Bulgarian production, how the Bulgarian production will be implemented and, above all, we will protect its interest precisely through the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u317	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Danchev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u318	Dear President, Mr. Bonev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I really thank you for that line because I was interrupted and couldn't further what I wanted to say. In fact, to some of my colleagues here in this Chamber this statement sounded like a speech for first reading, but its logic was that some of the proposals we make from BSP are related, are not separate numbers, are not part of some balance sheet, but are part of a common framework, of a common philosophy of our budgetary policy. In this philosophy, state investment is a very important place. It is no coincidence that I have made an overview of what is happening in the last year in our economy to show that the risk of further reduction of private investment in our economy is essential. That is why here the role of the state in stimulating economic growth through its investments is extremely important. Therefore, we at BSP have proposed and propose that additional funds of 800 million be allocated to this budget. lv. In the context of a national investment fund, including 300 million. lv. to further stimulate the economic development of Northwestern Bulgaria. However, I say again, the warnings of the slowdown of the global economy are growing, and the budget does not provide buffers for a scenario where revenues fall and it is necessary for the state to compensate with its activity for the lack of such in the private sector. By the way, a recently published rating agency report says that by 2022 the increase in investment will be lagging behind in raising current costs, in particular for salaries. In the long term, for me, such a process implies the creation of a good or at least predictable environment in which the private sector invests, or potential economic growth will begin to be limited. That is why additional funds are needed to stimulate economic development, but since this task is indeed complex, we cannot help but address the measures to find a solution to the demographic situation in the country. That was the other part of my speech that I hope you paid attention to. Therefore, in this budget we offer additional incentives for working parents, such as guaranteeing a minimum of 500 BGN. monthly for each child not over 18 years of age. We also offer exemption from income tax on employment relations of persons up to 26 years of age. These are all measures that aim to stimulate the already breathtaking and overheating labour market, because we cannot help but stimulate the development of people, workers and expect that the labour market in Bulgaria will somehow improve with a magic wand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u319	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. The next one to make a statement is Georgi Yordanov. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u320	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I take the floor to motivate the proposal that we made with Mr. Julian Angelov and which concerns minimal State aid for three organizations that are in the forehead of those who defend the Bulgarian national cause called Thrace and Macedonia. It is about the Union of Thracian Companies in Bulgaria, the Scientific Macedonian Institute and the Bulgarian Association of Generations in Macedonia. These three organisations have basically scientific, cultural and educational activities. The fruit of this activity are significant scientific studies, publication of books, preservation of folklore, folk customs in these areas of then Bulgaria, unfortunately, the placement of monuments, busts, memorable plates. I can tell you that two weeks ago at the border checkpoint, Captain Petko Voivoda, a very nice monument of Captain Petko Voivoda was placed, which has sent his eyes to Western Thrace, this very horse-like Bulgarian territory. These organisations are registered as civil associations and we propose minimum state aid to pass through the budget of the Ministry of Culture. I must tell you that until last year there was such help in the same small sizes, but due to some legal requirements today we have to make this proposal with Mr. Angelov. I think Bulgaria should defend its cause.. Thrace and Macedonia, and I think we should support it, even more so that the funds are negligible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u321	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. - What's the line? I can't see. The next statement is from Mr. Bogdan Botsev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u322	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, colleagues! For another year, the budget proposed by the government is a copy of the budget from the previous year in it, except that more funds are invested in some of the sectors, which is logical because of the increase in gross domestic product, there are no reforms in any of them. In education, for example, we have an increase in teachers' salaries, which we support, but this is not reform and does not lead to an increase in their quality. There are again more funds in health care, but also without any reform....in demand for hospitals, protesting nurses, lack of young doctors and medical professionals. In the social sphere, we once again have a cost freeze. We hope you will at least support our proposal to raise the salaries of social workers, as you did in the Budget Commission. Our proposals contain reforms in three of the main budgetary sectors: public finances, social spheres and health care. We propose that one tenth of the value added tax and one fifth of the natural persons' income tax be included in the budget of municipalities. This is a real step towards the financial decentralisation of Bulgarian municipalities. We propose a reduction in VAT for medicines of 9%, of bread, milk and other basic foodstuffs of 5%. In our opinion, this will reduce drug prices, reduce the part of the price that patients pay. With regard to food, the measure we propose will lead to a reduction in their prices, but this will also be an incentive for the development of Bulgarian production. We propose a first step towards the family income tax reduction by 50 BGN. from the tax on every child who owes his parents. We propose that young people's incomes up to 26 years of age should not be taxed on personal income tax. We propose a replacement of the flat tax with progressive income tax. In the social sphere we offer one-off aid of 6500 thousand. lv. at the birth of a second and third child. We propose to increase the support for the mothers students from 2880 BGN. increase to BGN 6500. In healthcare, we offer more resources for access to treatment in remote and difficult areas, but the most important thing is that hospitals are not commercial companies. In education we offer free textbooks up to the XII grade and also dropping fees for nursery, kindergartens and children's kitchens. With regard to business and development of the regions, our proposals are related to the creation of a national investment fund and a development fund for the Northwestern region. Our proposals aim for Bulgaria to achieve higher economic growth and a large part of the population to feel support and care from the state. We hope that you will support at least some of our proposals to improve the lives of Bulgarian citizens. [[(Replyes: Bravo!) (Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u323	Thank you, dear Mr. Botsev. - What's the line? I can't see. I give the floor to Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u324	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Minister! I regret the lack of the Minister of Sports here, and even the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u325	The Minister of Finance is in the building.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u326	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to you an extremely important and responsible topic for discussion and debate in the National Assembly when we discuss the budget of Bulgaria. Here I'll show you [[the MP shows a report]] and this is the programming format of the budget that represents and proposes the government of the ruling coalition, which is within 75 pages. These are all those programmes and regional policies that the government is proposing. The main objective, the main mission of this budget is a comprehensive reform of the Bulgarian sport, promoting strengthening of health through motor activity, physical activity, sport and sports-touristic activity. It is noticed that in the last few years, although the increase in gross domestic product is present and is a fact, the percentage ratio of the sports budget is decreasing. I will tell you that for the last year and the estimated budget value for 2020 is 0.069% of gross domestic product. Just for comparison, I will tell you that in the countries to which we are headed to reach their average standard of development and quality of life, the sports budget is within a percentage, a percentage and a half. And today we can't reach the last years, and we're backing down from the tenth of the unit as a percentage of gross domestic product. I will tell you and I dare say that the government has noted it as a fact the lack and lack of funding of certain sectors, and 70% of the amount set aside for sport in Bulgaria is allocated to sport for excellence. You know that sport for excellence is a feature for the development of sports for all or sports for adolescents, sports for all students and young people. I propose what is proposed in the new law on sport in art. 132, para. 1............................................................................................... Unfortunately, this decree has not been updated since 2006 for 13 years. Thirteen years! And you know that the prices of sports facilities, sports products, basketballs and footballs have increased and so on, we can list endlessly. In doing so, this decree does not allow for the development of its main function, namely the possibility of sport for every Bulgarian child. That is why we propose an update of this decree and the means for sport to be updated: for each child from two levs to be five levs; for each student from three levs to five levs; for each student to six levs for sport; for each student to each student to be six levs for sport. The amount obtained is indicative, of course, and is within 3.2 million, because it always depends on the number of children, students and students for the current year. Three million and two hundred thousand is one sum each child will have for sport for the entire year. I'll tell you what this is about. The big schools that have and that have a thousand students have a good opportunity to develop sports with these means, but small schools in small towns are most suffering, they are most dependent on the update of this decree. I hope that there will be no political prejudice here, and sport as an opportunity can unite us in this House, so that we support this proposal that we propose: an update of this so important decree of the Council of Ministers for every Bulgarian child and every young person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u327	Thank you, dear Mrs. Lecheva. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Atanasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u328	Dear Madam President, ladies ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I also address my fellow citizen Mrs. Menda Stoyanova because I do not see the Finance Minister. As President of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, I urge you to sincerely support this proposal. It is a decree of the Council of Ministers No 129 of 2000, which is about determining the differentiated amounts of money for physical education and sport. Colleagues, notice, that's 2 leva. for a kindergarten child, BGN 3 for a student, student and student per year. These funds are used for kindergartens, schools and higher education institutions for sports equipment, notice, for sports equipment and sports racing equipment. I would like to stress that since 2008, fellow Members of the National Assembly, pay serious attention to this for 11 years, these funds have not been changed! Deputies from this House, who have previously been MPs, have adopted the National Strategy for the Development of Physical Education and Sport 2012 - 2022, in which an operational objective has been set to increase the funds under Decree No 129 of the Council of Ministers, but, colleagues, this has not yet become a fact. Notice, the proposal is for an increase of 1 BGN. for the children from kindergarten of BGN 2 at BGN 3, for students from BGN 3. at BGN 5, and for students and students from BGN 3. £6. The total increase, colleagues, is 3,200 million. lv. Our budget is currently 43 857 billion. lv. The proposal is for an increase of 1 BGN. For the children of kindergartens, that is, we raise them by 1 lv. 2 leva. 3 BGN, for students from 3 BGN become 5 BGN, and for students and students of 3 BGN. £6. The total increase, colleagues, at 43 billion. lv. the budget is only 3200 million. lv. Colleagues, we are all talking that children are overweight and should exercise. Let's think about their health. Colleagues, let me also say something else: isn't the second look at the budget that is why we need to make some adjustments?! That is why it is the second view of this notorious budget, to make some adjustments to it, colleagues. I repeat, this is not about 15, 20, 30, 40 million. BGN, and it's 3 million. And 200,000. lv. for our children. You know that I love Roman sentiments: the Pacta clara boni amici, say the Romans. Translated means: "Foreign accounts " good friends. " - Well, how can we not be good friends to our own children? How can we not be such good friends?! Last I will say, I am addressing you, Mrs. Stoyanova: please, let us support this proposal because it concerns our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u329	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u330	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! One of the most important issues being discussed is the issue of municipal capital expenditure, as many policies are implemented through them, which people place annually in front of municipal management, including municipal roads and municipal road network. One of the conditions for reducing demographic collapse, one of the appropriate policies is improving the municipal road network, this infrastructure connectivity between villages and small towns, on the one hand, and the nearby economic centres on the other. An analysis of the Institute for Market Economics shows that migration is not great and people stay in the village and the small town when there is an easy connection with the nearby large city in which they work and travel daily. This daily labour migration provides incomes that are spent in the birthplace, and this keeps the village and the small town alive, keeps the most needed services, develops culture, trade and so on. This mobility is also key to slowing down the depopulation process. The municipal road network is almost as long as the Republican road network, but the resource that is allocated through the state budget is extremely small. The mayors, in addition to maintaining the municipal road network, must maintain 57 thousand. km streets, sidewalks and other parts of linear infrastructure. From 19,500 kilometers, about 6,000. Miles are in very bad shape, 7,000. The miles are in bad shape and only 6,000 miles are in good condition. This says a lot about what state support should be like. I'm opening up a clamp, but these reconstructions, repairs and maintenance of the road network can be funded by municipalities, except by the state, but their resources are extremely small. The revenues of local administrations from taxes in Bulgaria are more than twice and a half lower than the EU average as a ratio to gross domestic product. The other thing I would like to draw attention to is that we are kings of accepting documents from many pages that are not implemented. One of these documents is the Strategy for decentralisation of municipalities. It has been reported that the 2006-2015 strategy has been implemented at 10% and the strategy from 2016 to 2025 has been implemented inadequately. Improving good infrastructure at local level also provides better access to health services. EU Cohesion Policy Funds reach all small settlements. The aim of these policies and the resources allocated is to give opportunities for cohesion of the regions, but if we want genuine cohesion, our own country must devote much more money in this regard. In this context is also the implementation of the targeted program for the development of the Northwest, the border and border regions, the Rhodopes and Strandzha-Sakar, which should give impetus to about 235 municipalities in this regard. However, the resource provided for under this programme is around 400 million. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. I think this is a serious matter. The BSP's proposal in this regard is good. This is a proposal that will solve many problems for the municipalities. I suggest he be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u331	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Timchev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u332	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, ladies ministers, honourable Members! Northwest Bulgaria became called the poorest and backward region not only in Bulgaria but also in the European Union. It completely depopulations and falls dramatically behind on many indicators. I join my colleagues who spoke from the districts of Vidin and Vratsa. I will give several indicators for Montana district as a national representative from this area: gross domestic product, wages and incomes in Montana region are the lowest for Bulgaria and at the same time unemployment is the highest. Montana has the lowest economic activity so far and the least attracted foreign and national investments. The population in the district has decreased since 2000 by 50,000 people. Only the municipality of Montana has decreased by over 15,000 people, and the real numbers must be more. The country's oldest population, with the lowest birth rate. There's a shortage of specialists in the field. The results of the students who complete their secondary education and pass their exams in Bulgarian language and literature are the lowest in the country. With the lowest coverage we are in cadastral terms of the cadastral map of Bulgaria. I want to tell you that we have regions that disappear from the map of Bulgaria. Montana is one of the few areas in which there is no higher education institution, or at least a subsidiary of one. Unfortunately, the National Assembly and the previous budget did not accept the establishment of a fund for investment or support of the poorly developed regions in Bulgaria. For this reason, a civil initiative group was established on 7 October this year, which began to collect signatures with a proposal to set up such a national investment fund to support the Northwest. So we embraced the idea and offered it in our alternative budget with the amount of 300 million. BGN, which will be the initial investment, and the state relations with such poorly developing regions in Bulgaria. I would like to call on all MPs to support this proposal and remind you that in many speeches and interviews the Prime Minister has said that the priority of this government will be Northwestern Bulgaria. Support our offer! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u333	Thank you, Mr. Timchev. Mr. Lambev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u334	Madam President, honourable Members! A summary by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova came to the public earlier that the 2020 draft budget is more than the same. The careful review of the figures, consolidated and separately by ministries, gives us no reason to accept this conclusion, but rather to draw another conclusion, which in recent years is imposed as such for the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, and it is: more of the same. The lack of reforms, the structural problems in the Bulgarian economy, combined with the nominal increase in revenues in the state budget, but not the actual increase, do not allow for an accelerated growth of the Bulgarian economy, but rather for a shy but extremely convenient public growth of about 3%, which is extremely insufficient to catch up with those countries of the European Union, which we aim for and which, by the way, are our main trading partners. Globally, there are too many threats to the global economy. I'm not gonna list them. They're all known to us. The lack of a budget deficit only at first glance seems soothing, but the analysis of the figures suggests that at the end of 2020 we will probably again have an uncontrolled spending of a huge resource that can go beyond the record of this year -- about 3 billion. lv. without rules and without the approval of the National Assembly. One important issue that deserves the attention of all of us is this mantra for the financial decentralisation of the Bulgarian municipalities, of all those regions from which we come and where we work constantly and we face an extremely large number of problems, most of which are correlated in the limited financial opportunities of the Bulgarian municipality. The road network, which supports the Bulgarian municipalities, is 20 thousand. km with less than 100 million. lv. The street network is close to 60,000. km, and the sidewalk and the water supply network is over 90 thousand. km. Resources for the maintenance of all this infrastructure are not available, as the Bulgarian municipality under the current legislation cannot spend more than 12% of the state transfers. Therefore, if we, as politicians, do not have a consensus that we should leave to the Bulgarian municipality most of the taxes we collect, we cannot expect to smooth out regional differences, nor can we stop the trend of recent years for the excessive concentration of the Bulgarian population in three to five major developed cities and depopulation of whole regions in Bulgaria, turning them into regions that have passed the point of non-return. I don't need to give examples of the Northwest, and the Northeast is headed for the abyss. That is why this budget does not offer us any reforms, and the structural problems lie both in healthcare and in education and in the public sector. The analysis of over 1000 audit reports by the Court of Auditors over the past 20 years shows ineffective spending of state funds in all areas, opaqueness, uncertainty of criteria or lack of them. And the Court of Auditors' assessment is that more than 50% of the expenditure has been spent inefficiently. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating. That means there is money, but the big problem is the effectiveness of the spending of these funds and until we reform the unreformed sectors in Bulgaria, however much the funds, they will never reach their final destination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u335	Thank you, dear Mr. Lambev. Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u336	Madam President, honourable Members! Of course, the budget, as we are used to thinking it, is a key law for the state, because in the end, all policies focus on it. And I'm pretty sure that's what we should think. Every policy that has been or has not been implemented has a reflection in these hundred pages that stand before us and which we will vote on today and tomorrow. This is why it was important for me to understand what this budget really is and what we do with it, does it correspond to what Bulgarian citizens currently expect from the National Assembly and the politicians in Bulgaria? At the risk of repeating the same thing for a second time, for me one of the main words that Bulgarian society currently feels with its fibers are inequalities and injustice. These are things that I think are at the heart of any form of public organization at the moment. Whether they pass into protests, how people assess who is the bearer of inequality, how they assess who will take him out of inequality and whether there are political forces that will meet his view. The point is that the feeling that life in Bulgaria is unfair and that we have huge inequalities in society, which is confirmed by all statistics, by the way, and by all possible comparative indicators, is a fact. For me, the main problem here is whether this budget responds to the main problems facing society. In other words, does inequalities in any way reduce and in any way reduce the sense of injustice in society? This, in my opinion, is the key to finding out if the budget is adequate. For me, issues such as budget redistribution, such as progressive taxation, such as the level of indirect taxes, such as cost orientation, are key issues for modern society. They show to what extent the state can and is able to play its role as regulator. Does what we propose with the budget correspond to what Bulgarian citizens actually expect and what we as politicians should offer them? Does the National Assembly meet the requirements of its time with what it does? To me, the answer is absolutely clear. It is clear to me that the people in Bulgaria currently want change, and the only thing we give them is the same. We didn't give it to them. People want another way of distributing. They want another role of the state. They want another dynamic of economic development. What you give them is more than the same. And that is the problem with this budget. If we continue in this National Assembly or in the next few years to go on the same scale as not to change the common picture, but to hold on to the things Vladi Goranov explained to us some time ago, the results will be dramatic for all of us, because the feeling of the need for change, the feeling of inadequacy of the political system has specific dimensions. And these dimensions lie in the lives of the citizens who appreciate us all the time. So they systematically think we are inadequate because the decisions we have do not match the ideas they have about how to develop their lives. That's up to us. We as politicians are that relationship of citizens with reality, with politics, with how life changes, which can give them perspective or not give them perspective. What you're doing with this budget is more than the same thing that means no change. If we continue in the same spirit, rather do you continue, because you represent the power at the moment, what you will encounter is the resistance of the citizens from now on. It's getting stronger. Whether the citizens will define exactly who is guilty, whether they will direct their anger to one of you or to all of you together, that is quite another matter. The point is, if we have any sense of politics, we will change the approach, and with this budget we do not change it. Once again, we are simply serving them more than the same instead of satisfying the desire to change Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u337	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Ermenkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u338	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! Dear Minister, I would like your attention, because I have a specific question for you if you could answer me. I will not make a proposal or defend our proposals, my fellow Members do so sufficiently well and professionally. I have a question for you in the following aspect. You know very well that with the continued opportunity for coal plants to work, Bulgaria has undertaken to liberalise the electricity market, which will in fact lead to an increase in the price of electricity for the population by about 10 to 20%. The question I am asking is: what is foreseen in the budget to cover the so-called costs of energy poverty? I am not talking about socially weak, I am not talking about these aids that are currently being granted, but I am talking about what must guarantee the state of the energy poor. By many different criteria, but the one that belongs to the World Bank and whose strategy we follow in market liberalisation, energy poor are those who pay for energy over 10% of their income. In modest accounts that have been made by experts in various methodologies, the number of these people as a percentage varies between 20 and 30% of the country's population. It is about a financial resource that I do not see in the budget and which I do not know how you will deal with when such aids have to start to be paid. My question, Minister, is: what do you think and what is the policy you put in the budget on this problem, which concerns between 10 and 20% of the population of Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u339	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Secretary? We continue with the speeches. Mr. Kostadinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u340	Madam President, Madam Minister, honourable Members! We are in the role of our colleague from the Roman Senate Mark Porcius Cato Sr. in his words: Carthage must be destroyed. And we hope that this strategy will be vital now. I have words for the finance minister, even though he's not here, I guess he'll mark them.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u341	He's right here. [[Mister Vladislav Goranov is sitting with the MPs from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u342	I'm sorry, hello! I would like to give two serious arguments for this proposal for a 300 million fund. lv. The first argument is a bit uneconomic. There are signatures submitted to parliament by over 2,000 citizens who stand behind this fund. At the moment, the proceedings are being carried out under the ESPRION and will be reported to the committees. The firm and clear desire of those over 2,000 people from the Northwest is to have such a fund and they have justified it with motives. My second argument, Mr. Minister and honourable colleagues, is much more serious and he wants to support both your decision to support and support the finance minister on the following. In 2015, the National Centre for Territorial Development at the Order of the Council of Ministers made and finalized the Targeted Programme for the Development of Four Regions of the Northwest, of the Rhodopes, of Strandzha and of the semi-mountain and mountain underdeveloped areas. Keep in mind that this program has absolutely everything in it, it is good. There are strategies, essence, goals, tasks, indicators, scope, however, unfortunately, it is a dead program. We want, through our proposal, to make a working instrument for the implementation of this programme. Because, colleagues, see in the Targeted Programme what Bulgaria looks like: 149 Bulgarian municipalities, 30% of the population and 54.5% of the territory is covered by this programme and is declared as regions and people living in backward areas. In other words, in more than half of the Bulgarian municipalities each third Bulgarian and half of the territory is located in a backward area. So the challenge is very great. Most vividly this is expressed, of course, in the Northwestern region. This is about five districts, 51 municipalities and 646 settlements. They have been declared depopulated areas. We have no right not to offer such an instrument to overcome the landfill and demographic problems. I believe that without changing the Targeted Development Programme for these poorly developed areas, we will gather the support not only of those over 2,000 people who are constantly increasing as signatures, but also of our colleagues from all parliamentary groups. I don't know if it's bad or if it's a coincidence or just a good follow-up of logic, but this targeted programme and these measures were also laid down in the Government Programme 2014 "2018." I see nothing wrong without politicizing the issue of continuity in the measures. In conclusion, I will tell you, dear Minister of Finance, honourable Members, that we also have an action plan for the Targeted Programme, we have measures, we have numbers, we have numbers, we have numbers: Objective No 1 I'm sorry, but it's about 5 billion. BGN, which the state has promised to intentionally invest in this region, under these three targeted strategies, groups or sectors. So our responsibility is extremely high, extremely serious, and I hope that you will hear our call for new investments, social capital, economic environment, attracting young people and investing in a comprehensive infrastructure, and will support the request for this fund. Thank you so much for listening. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u343	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Mr. Chenchev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u344	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, I would like to thank Mr. Slavcho Atanasov, the President of the Commission on Children's Affairs, Youth and Sports for his truly worthy, human and civic position on this Order No 129. I also thank him for the fact that we have always dealt with matters in the Sports Committee, especially when it comes to children, in a spirit of understanding. I am also in a hurry to tell Mrs. Menda Stoyanova that we should avoid a misunderstanding together. Because in the forecast budget of your and the Ministry of Youth and Sports, you yourself have recorded that money should be increased for children, students, students and students. You write it yourself! And I will allow myself to read exactly what you have written in your forecast budget: "Present the drafting of a decree, which should ensure the implementation of the priorities for creating opportunities for physical activity and sports-touristic activity of all children and students, as well as for the material and technical provision of sports activities in educational institutions. And now attention: The amount of funds for physical education and sport is regulated in art. 1 of Decree of the Council of Ministers, No 129/2000 and is BGN 2 for a child in kindergarten and 3 leva. for a student, student, student, students, these sizes have not been changed since 2006. In order to encourage children, students and young people learning in educational institutions into motor activity and system sports activities as means of healthy lifestyle, we offer an increase in funds for children in kindergartens, students in daily form, combined training and training through work, students and students. That's what you put in your forecast budget! That is why I said that we should prevent the misunderstanding and vote on this 3 million. 200,000. lv. more, because I am sure, in fact I am convinced that we all here have such a worthy civic position as Mr. Atanasov expressed 20 minutes ago from this tribune. And I call you, indeed. This is about how we can help our children not be prone to obesity every third child, you know the negative trend, negative statistics. We can help in this direction the children, not only the children, but the students, and the students to engage in sports, and this is where the sport will, of course, have its very well expressed social function. Thank you for your attention, and I hope that we all realise how important it is and support it. After all, 3 million. 200,000. lv. against the background of the entire state budget are nothing, especially when it comes to the future of Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u345	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. Here's a line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u346	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! Mr. Chenchev, I have two questions for you. From this budget, which we are currently voting on, do you know how much this will involve helping our children with sports supplies in kindergartens and schools? I'm gonna help you out... 0.4% of the budget. I repeat, the figure is 0.4% of the budget. Mr. Chenchev, you raised the issue of obesity of Bulgarian children. Do you know where we are in Europe in the obesity of Bulgarian children? Answer me, Mr. Chenchev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u347	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Is there a second line? I can't see. Mr. Chenchev won't have the back. Colleagues, this concludes the speeches. [[DPS lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u348	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Every year, from the last three of this National Assembly, we look at the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. We are also putting our priorities at stake in the municipalities, given that municipalities, mayors, councillors have recently had elections, you know, are closest to the people and best known the problems of the population. Perhaps I will repeat myself from last year with several things that are important to our citizens and voters in the Republic of Bulgaria, because we are politicians and we have to make political decisions here. Ladies and gentlemen, you remember that last year, when we spoke about the Tol System Programme and that the state had no right to finance local activities or municipal roads from the fourth grade, we commented. Of these earmarked funds, this notorious tol system, which we still hope will go in full capacity and work properly, there will be some finances and they will be allocated only to the Republican road network and those subsidies that are for municipalities, to be increased so that municipalities can also allocate funds to rehabilitate road infrastructure or those who are from the fourth grade. Last year we also commented that for the next year, i.e. this year, there will be an increase in the capital subsidy. There are very light measures at stake, which are extremely insufficient, given that the municipal road network is equal to the Republican or 20,000 km to 20,000 km. But looking at the budget, that's not happening. In other words, these funds that are at stake this year are extremely insufficient, we will not have any rehabilitation of the municipal road network. We also expected our proposal will be when we come to this paragraph, a minimum of 120 million additional capital subsidies in municipal budgets, so that municipal mayors can get a little air and indeed the most urgent repairs will be implemented in 2020. We will propose such an option of 120 million increase in the capital subsidy, at least 100 million being precisely for road infrastructure and 20 million for other activities. The common matching subsidy will also be extremely insufficient, honourable Members, compared to municipalities, given that they raised their taxes and fees three years ago and however we insist on raising them this year, no one will allow themselves to do so because the incomes of people living in the towns, especially in small towns have not increased. If we do this, if we raise taxes and fees to increase our own revenues, it will also be extremely insufficient without the support of the state subsidy. It is in this regard that the total matching subsidy should also be at least 20 million for all municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria at least to cover those costs which are for local activities and for employees who work in paragraph Dear colleagues, we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are going to insist on these proposals of ours and I hope that you all will take a serious look, not as we talk about them every year and will ultimately have no effect, because the municipalities expect it from us from all Members of the National Assembly. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Madam President. I would really like to point out that these capital costs for municipalities and the total matching subsidy, despite the formula that has been made, are extremely insufficient and we will demand that these funds be put in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u349	Thank you, dear Mr. Ali. Last statement, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u350	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I use the opportunity to discuss budget 2020 in the part of "Accesses" to expose the untruths of this tribune by the Minister of Finance Mr. Goranov. He manipulates the hall, and through the presentation of the specific data before us, the MPs and the whole public, exporting data on the state budget. But what does the request by the BNB for data on the entire budget, according to the consolidated fiscal programme? This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the 17 million. According to the report of BNB after the end of the year 955 million, nearly a billion more revenue. For 2017 the voted revenue is 32 billion. The Commission According to the report of BNB after the end of the year 35 billion. 317 million. More than 2.5 billion. For 2018, a forecast voted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Ministers The Commission According to the report of the BNB, 39 billion. The Commission More than a billion and 400 million. Expected in more revenue for 2019 Over 2 billion. Why are the revenues reduced in the proposal for a budget vote? A question with many answers: in order to take account of overexecution in order to have a buffer according to Mr. Goranov's statement on the proposed budget for 2020, if really the fears that economic failures are imminent... And he explains that if there is a drop in economic growth by 3%, this deficit will be within 3% at the end of the year. Whose instructions does Minister Goranov follow? Is there any doubt that these are the instructions of the one who proposed him to be Minister of Finance, namely Prime Minister Boyko Borisov? Why is Boyko Borisov instructing Minister Goranov to vote on reduced revenues for all budgets that Vladislav Goranov prepares? In order to be insured by a possible recession, by a possible crisis, which is what we are now in next year. However, since 2016, the reference from BNB from today shows that this is a practice. This practice gives everyone in the majority responsible to ignore the person who needs support from the state in terms of social benefits, in terms of support in raising children or in terms of more funds for the elderly. Manifesting with increased incomes for 2020 is actually catching up with these 44% of the average Europeans as well as they are for 2019. Understand, ladies and gentlemen, the increase in income is again more than twice as low as the average Europeans. Where does this tell us in solidarity Europe? You'll be the judge of that.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u351	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Colleagues, I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the MP Vasil Antonov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 212 MPs: 88 against 55, abstention 69. The offer is not accepted. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u352	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Ministers! I'm doing a re-voting procedure. We're talking 900,000 here. lv. This is a topic we have commented on many times about the monastery in Sveta Gora. Please, this is the time for the patriotism, honesty and integrity of the people to be confirmed. Please, I'm doing a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u353	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Re-vote, please. They voted 213 MPs: 99, against 25, abstention 89. The offer is not accepted. Proposal from the MPs Julian Angelov and Georgi Yordanov. The Commission does not support the proposal. Please, voting mode. Vote 205 MPs: 92 against 32, abstention 81. The offer is not accepted. Proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva and Ivan Chenchev, which the Commission does not support. They voted 216 MPs: 111, against 33, abstention 72. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The motion is accepted. Re-vote. Here you go. [[Strong noise, lines and shouts: "Eee!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]] There's a re-vote! Colleagues, there's a re-vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u354	Mrs. Chairman! There were colleagues in the House who couldn't vote. I'm asking for a re-vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u355	Revoting procedure for the unsupported proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva and Ivan Chenchev. Please, voting mode. [[Radio.]] They voted 216 MPs: for 106, against 55, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] Guys, there's a lot of noise in the room. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Krasimir Bogdanov and Julian Angelov. [[Noise and lines.]] It's very loud, I can't get too loud. Colleagues, please be quiet! I repeat once again for those who have failed to hear because of the noise: the unsupported proposal of Krasimir Bogdanov and Julian Angelov. The vote's coming up. They voted 203 MPs: 80 against 50, abstention 73. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the next proposal, which is not supported by the Commission it is of the MPs Maria Tsvetkova, Boris Borisov and Krasimir Bogdanov. [[Reply from MP Hamid Hamid.]] Please, voting mode. They voted 209 MPs: 52, against 49, abstention 108. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 212 MPs: 78, against 61, abstention 73. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. They voted 214 MPs: for 78, against 67, abstention 69. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Dora Yankova. They voted 214 MPs: for 102, against 55, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 1 on the Commission report. Vote 215 MPs: 120 against 95 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u356	Dear Madam President, there were colleagues in the Chamber who were coming in, please, a revoting procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u357	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. It's a rewording under the procedure that's been done. Vote 214 MPs: for 122, against 92, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u358	Under art. 2 there is a proposal of the MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs: I'll be In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) In Section II of the statement of expenditure: - in line two. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. - on line one. The number "746" is replaced by "752" 567,0 "Current costs." (b) In Section III "Budget relationships (transfers) ': - in line III. The number of the budget relationships (transfers) is replaced by the number of the budget of the budget of the European Union and is replaced by the number of the budget of the European Union. - on line one. The budget budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the European Central Bank of the European Union. 2. In para. 2: (a) The number of the Courts of the Republic of Bulgaria and the number of the Courts of Justice of the Republic of Bulgaria is replaced by the number of the Courts of Justice of the Republic of Bulgaria and the number of the Court of Justice of the Republic (b) The number of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be replaced by 8 930.4 and shall be replaced by the number of the Supreme Judicial Council. (c) In line The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u359	Statements, coworkers? Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u360	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Minister, Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! You know very well the procedure by which the budget for the judiciary is drawn up. There were two options at first reading: one prepared by the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Judicial Council, the other by the Ministry of Finance. As always, it was preferred to the Ministry of Finance. The difference between the two was just over 80 million. lv. We had the opportunity to discuss both in the Legal Commission and here in the Chamber where this difference came from, why the philosophy of budgeting the judiciary should be changed in general. Of that 80 million. lv. We at the BSP decided to keep pushing for six. Five million and 800 thousand. lv. additional are necessary to increase the state number of judicial assistants. We're talking about one of the worst problems of our justice system. Very often, when it comes to judicial reform, the debate focuses on the superiors' positions, but not the superiors, not the chiefs of courts, not the chiefs of prosecutors are law enforcement. That's what regular judges do. These judges need judicial aides to be unloaded from a number of activities. Moreover, in the big problem called the burden of judges, one of the tracks that is being developed in the Supreme Judicial Council, I am sure, and in the Ministry of Justice, is to burden these judicial assistants with even more powers so that the judge can concentrate on the essence of his work. Five million. $800,000. lv. 100 more of these would be appointed. This will immediately be expressed in more time for the work of the judges essentially, for a faster administration of justice, and in itself this will encourage the civil turnover of the country and this money for a year and a half or two will return repeatedly. I ask you very much to take this proposal seriously. It will contribute very quickly to a qualitative change in the judiciary. Another 420 thousand. BGN, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, it is necessary to increase the budget for the Inspectorate of the Judiciary. This increase stems from us, from the Law we adopted last year for the protection of personal data, which entrusts this constitutionally fixed body with certain obligations in relation to the judicial system. They will not be able to perform them in the composition they are currently in. Four hundred and twenty thousand leva will provide the opportunity to appoint 10 new staff to the Inspectorate and this famous regulation, which in turn is the application of European legislation, will be really introduced into the judiciary. Otherwise, once again, we'll have done things halfway. I therefore also hope for the support of the Minister of Justice for this 6 million. 200,000. lv. of her 80s million, which were short on the justice system, to be found today.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u361	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u362	Thank you, Madam President. Basically, our opinion was expressed by our colleague Krum Zarkov. I'll just add that law enforcement is an expensive occupation, especially in civil matters. If a person decides to protect his or her legal rights and interests, first, he should pay a state fee, then a legal adviser's fee, a lawyer's, of course, to pay his or her expertise in the case in question, first, second instance and third sometimes. A case can last a long time in the years. Finally, a court order of a judge, which is buried in cases, of course, that the judgment could be much more qualitative if this judge had more people around him, the so-called court assistants who help him in the formation of the final judgment, purely technically, even if you will. That's why we're proposing. This will lead to much faster and more quality justice, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, access to justice will open, because it will be more attractive, will be faster and more quality. This will, of course, result in new revenue in the judiciary system and hence in the budget of the state. The increase that we want is, in practice, seen as an investment that will subsequently generate profit again for the State, will have revenue for the State. I ask you to support it.. it is about some grand sums, especially when it is about speed and quality of administration. You know that one of the criticisms of the Bulgarian administration of justice is that of the judiciary system. I am not saying that this measure is a panacea, that all problems in the judiciary system will be cleared, but it is a step in the right direction. I therefore ask you to support this proposal and together to take this right step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u363	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u364	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! I support what fellow Members Krum Zarkov and Philip Popov have said. I will not repeat this for the purpose of procedural savings in time, but I would like to draw your attention to something, namely the figure of the court assistant for whom we are currently proposing. This is a relatively new figure in our judicial system and it seems that objective analyses have not yet been carried out on the pros and cons of her work. I would like to say that I see more pluses than any minuses given that judicial aides work with a much lower salary than magistrates, that is, they get 90% of the lowest magistrate's salary. On the other hand, they release magistrates to deal with their actual work, and they can and do mostly check the regularity of subpoenas and messages, monitor the movement of papers, whether they have been received on time and by whom. All this will result in an expected result, namely quality justice. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this will enable the magistrates to resolve more quickly the cases assigned to them. I agree that time is not one of the characteristics of a court order which gives the relevant court, but it is essential for a sense of justice for each victim or anyone who has carried his problem to the court. Therefore, the amount that we propose to be separated and intended for judicial aids and for the Inspectorate is not that great, namely 6 million. 200,000. leva. I think it will contribute to increasing the quality of the work of judicial assistants, magistrates and justice in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u365	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. - What's the line? I won't. I don't see anyone else to talk about. I'm closing the debate. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u366	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! I'll try to be as brief as possible. I thank my colleagues in the opposition for the proposal they have made. I believe that it reflects care for the development of the judiciary and solving the problems in the judiciary. Indeed, we have very thoroughly debated the justifications for the individual projects and the individual needs of the judiciary. I congratulate the Supreme Judicial Council on negotiating with the teams of the Ministry of Finance. I believe that they have achieved an optimal budget, which has resulted in a total increase of more than 80 million compared to a previous year. I believe that this increase will ensure the work of the judiciary, including an increase in remuneration within the judiciary, by about 10% on average, in addition to securing the new projects and challenges facing the judiciary. On the matter of 5 million. $800,000 for forensic aides. Now I cannot be adamant that this is for 100 new stats for forensic aides, because a remuneration of BGN 4800 would be obtained. monthly to a court assistant. That is, whatever the cost of the types of provision is, a very high remuneration is obtained that does not correspond to the status of those employees. Of course, absolutely everything is true that judicial aides can significantly influence the quality of the magistrate's work and it is good that in this budget the debate also focuses on their work. I am convinced that the Supreme Judicial Council will also handle these indicators. I therefore take note of the concern of both my opposition colleagues and my colleagues from the Legal Committee, but, alas, for the first time, from this tribune, I will allow myself to call you to moderation and to ask you to accept that the budget that has been proposed is sufficient and helps to achieve the objectives set. With regard to the Inspectorate, this is not the first time we have had this debate. There we really always have the provision of new functions and always the Inspectorate is facing the challenge with less money to meet a higher volume of work, but they have so far proved, especially in the last three years, that this is not a problem and that they are dealing with the performance of their functions. In addition, I would like us to give one another a positive sign with regard to fellow Members of the Supreme Judicial Council. Indeed, in the budget of the judiciary there is an opportunity for optimization, there is an opportunity to cut costs and the Supreme Judicial Council itself in the debates gave me such an example in relation to the implementation and completion of the project for video conference relations. We will see to what extent this project will lead to savings, but I think it will in any case lead to a positive effect. By respecting the work of the magistrates and I believe that they have always received worthy support from the legislative and executive authorities, I appeal to you to support the proposal, as has been done by the government, that is, as colleague Zarkov said to the Ministry of Finance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u367	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, we're going to vote. First, I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs. Vote 172 MPs: 65, against 42, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for art. 2, supported by the Commission. Vote 174 MPs: 115, against 58, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u368	Article 3, 4 and 5 are by importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer as Articles 3 to 5 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u369	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for Articles 3, 4 and 5, supported by the Commission. They voted 165 MPs: for 114, against 51, there is no abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u370	Under art. 6 there is a proposal made by the MP Vasil Antonov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments shall be made: "1." In para. 1, II Costs, the number....118 730,2... is replaced by..119 630,2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. In para. 1, III Budgetary Relations, the number 3. In para. 4 t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." For the Eastern Orthodox Religion: 26 900,0 1.1. For the Bulgarian Patriarchate 26 000,0 1.2. For the Zographic Monastery "900,0. " The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Andon Donchev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6, para. 2, p. 7.1 to create point 7.1.1 "Financial support to the Bulgarian cultural organizations and media abroad" "up to 100 000 BGN." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u371	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote first the unsupported proposal of the MP Vasil Antonov and a group of MPs. They voted 163 MPs: 58, against 28, abstention 77. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Andon Donchev, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 146 MPs: 63, against 24, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for art. 6, supported by the Commission. Vote 163 MPs: 110, against 51, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u372	Articles 7 to 10, including by importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer as Articles 7 to 10 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u373	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer as members from 7 to 10 including those supported by the Commission. Vote 162 MPs: 113 against 49 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u374	Under art. 11 there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 11 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in Section II. Costs: - in line two. The cost of the number - on line one. Operating costs the number ss 1 367 769,2ss is replaced by sc 1 472 315,2ss; - in row 1.1. Staff number s1 095 514,5 " is replaced by s1 200 060,1 "; (b) in Section III. Budgetary relations (transfers): - in line III. Budgetary relationships (transfers) the - on line one. A central budget budget budget-based budget-based budget-based budget-based figure of 1 501 546,2' is replaced by 1 606 092,2'; 2. In para. 2: (a) of row 1. The number of defenses policy b) in row 2. Union and international security policy, the number c) on line All the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u375	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Milev. Then Mr. Kutev. It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u376	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Minister! We accept the budget of the Ministry of Defense. Dear ladies and gentlemen, from Coalition BSP for Bulgaria we propose to raise the base for determining the minimum wage of the servicemen, which from 380 BGN. It hasn't changed since the fifth year to reach BGN 430. This is required by the fact that in the budget the revenue remains the same 44 million for this year and for the following year, and the expenditure is mainly for maintenance and capital expenditure. For the staff, the 10% offered for the increase in wages, we believe that they are insufficient, although inflation is not that high, they still reduce the wages of the servicemen. With this amendment that we propose, it aims to increase the motivation of the servicemen and this applies, of course, to the Ministry of Interior and to all services. The change is in art. 61 of the State Budget Bill. I believe that whatever modernization we do to the Bulgarian Army and to the armed forces in particular, whatever strategies and primos to accept and implement the Ministry of Defence, if we do not maintain at a bearable level the salaries of this motivation will not be so necessary and high. Currently more than 5,000 soldiers are outside the Bulgarian Army, the seats are vacant and even the defence ministry's attempt to fill them are very timid. Even the planned 800 people for next year will not be accepted, as this year from the accepted 500, 300 have already left. They leave even by age and under unfavorable working conditions. We ask that you all support our proposal, because even if all planes arrive on time, and the modernization of the frigates be done in time, the mining hunters buy by the end of the year, even if the infantry fighting machines come, someone has to train, someone has to prepare and someone has to manage them. That's our offer. Thank you for understanding. I hope you'll back us up.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u377	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Kutev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u378	Mrs. Chairman! My procedure in the manner of conduct is related to a little haste, which is obviously necessary, but it still seems to me to be problematic at the moment. I heard the colleague here talking about § 7, and until we raise our hands that you didn't pay attention to, it turns out we voted § 10. From now on, there are things that I would like to say about some paragraphs on which there are no proposals. Please, for the fact that there are no proposals, at least we vote them at once, and look at the hands so that they can have an opinion on this issue. I have had a special speech under § 9 and will try in the context of this procedure simply to say what it was about, which I apologize for. In § 9 t. 5.1. is the budget programme of the National Housing Fund, for which for some reason 300 thousand are allocated. lv. This is a very important issue for me, because this is about the so-called compensatory records, which, at the end of this year, under the Law, which is currently in operation, actually ends the action. What we're paying for 300 grand next year I don't know right now. Perhaps the minister or someone in the Ministry can explain to me what the 300,000 will do. lv. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the United Patriarchs and GERB together have failed a bill that has actually allocated the deadlines. And here in this column instead of 300,000. lv. He had to write $30 million. BGN, with which to actually pay the debts to the citizens. You voted them two years ago almost at first reading unanimously the whole room. Then you, the GERB group headed by Menda Stoyanova, who is Chairman of the Financial Commission, made sure that this bill did not enter into force and did not enter the room for consideration. This is the way in which you have wronged 100 million Bulgarian citizens for things that they actually had the right to receive. Now, on December 31st of this year, the Law that has been so far ends. You've got 300 grand coming in here, and I'm still telling you there's 100 million left to pay. In the Bill that we had proposed with our colleagues in the Volition, it said that a few more years should be paid 30 million in order to pay off all obligations to the citizens. In fact, with your direct assistance, the state steals from its citizens 100 million. lv. That's t. 5.1. in § 9. I remain to the citizens, and to you, the consequences and the thought of it. After all, what are the consequences of your actions, what does pressing the buttons mean? In your case, theft of 100 million citizens today.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u379	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Mr. Tsonkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u380	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would also like to protect our proposal in the state budget relating to the defence costs of the Ministry of Defence. Firstly, I would like to say the positive points in the last few years, which are observed in the budget of the Ministry of Defence, and these are related to raising costs not only because we have made such commitments as an ally member of the collective security and defence system, such as NATO, but also because there is obviously an understanding of the importance and role of the security sector and defence as a key sector in this sector. In addition to increasing defence spending, which goes mainly to modernization, in modernization projects of the armed forces, we are putting again a very important defence issue, and it is precisely for the defence people. Because whatever weapons we acquire, whatever new defense capabilities we acquire, to increase existing defense capabilities, we without the defence people couldn't have one battle-powered army and the types of armed forces to be at a high level of combat readiness and their defense capabilities to be at a sufficiently high level. Therefore we would like to recalculate the minimum base 380 BGN, from which the remuneration of all employees in the sector is formed. Here, by the way, it's not just about the servicemen, it's also about the police, the prison workers working in the special services. Why is recalculation important? We, by the way, offer just 50 leva. to increase this minimum rate, which is not enough, but this is necessary, because in recent years in the public sector, you are boasting about how you increase wages by 10%, including increasing the wages of the servicemen, but keep in mind that the average salary, wages in general and in the private sector are also increasing. And it turns out that the servicemen and the Ministry of Defence as a whole are not competitive enough in the labour market. That is to say, we need to think about a greater wage increase, not talking about modernisation, but about wages, because this is how we can improve the motivation of the servicemen. And one more thing that is important to add is capital expenditure, they are important and they need to be properly digested for a very simple reason. These capital costs should go to maintenance, to rebuild the building fund, and I suppose that a large part of you here in this room know, or at least you've heard, under what conditions servicemen serve, and they, I assure you, are not very good. Therefore, we need to think fully about the conditions under which servicemen serve the homeland, the people in defence must be the emphasis. So think about our proposal and, please, support it to recalculate the minimum rate of 380 BGN. £430. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u381	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. Are there lines? I can't see. A statement said Mr. Vangelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u382	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll be very brief. I will support with several numbers, namely the statement that this is the best budget Bulgaria has had for defence since 10 November. The numbers say the following, I will say them very quickly, because not everyone is familiar with the topic: the funds from the increase in the budget for the Ministry of Defence and higher military schools are increasing by 103 million. lv. compared to the previous year; 100 million lv. to increase wages by 10% for a consecutive year; 3 million Three hundred thousand. lv. for an increase, I stress the subsidy for the state-owned military schools. For the modernisation of the armed forces and the completion of the non-completion for the Ministry of Defence in the central budget, 171 million are envisaged. lv. for the acquisition of multifunctional modular patrol ships; 100 million lv. For the acquisition of basic fighting equipment for the construction of battalion battle groups; 100 million lv. for the construction of an integrated system and infrastructure for the absorption of new F-16 Block 70 aircraft; 125 million lv. to complete the non-completion of personnel or funds for the Ministry of Defence, state military schools and modernization projects total 2 billion. lv. and not to startle our colleagues and friends from Volya to say that this is still only 1.6% of the gross domestic product of Bulgaria. As I said at the beginning, a better budget Bulgaria has not had since 10 November for defence, we will support it, and this also applies to the budget of the state. We will support the defence budget and the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u383	Thank you. A line? Here you are, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u384	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Borisov, everything is certain. Today we have heard all sorts of comparisons, all sorts of arguments, all sorts of arguments, but I ask you, when you make comparisons about costs, let them be in correct parameters. Bulgaria has had a professional army since 2007. What does the defense from 1989 mean? It has a completely different structure so that when comparisons are made, comparisons with comparable parameters and within comparable values. Otherwise, if you have to argue with this tribune of statistics, you can argue with everything, but a little more depth. We are talking about a proposal of ours to increase the wages of the servicemen, not by the figure you propose, but by a larger one. And I think that the arguments on our part were completely calm and reasonable. Therefore, I call on you not to make inappropriate attempts to compare in order to prove any costs, but to see the real problem that exists. We've been discussing the structure of the labour market all day, social costs. You see the situation. Budget sectors are uncompetitive of the private sector, where numerous higher salaries are formed, especially for some specialists and specialties that are already needed in the army, so that the sector must be competitive in the area of wages in order to have other objectives to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u385	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Is there a second line? I won't. Mr. Vangelov, would you like a duplicate? You refuse. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u386	Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll be very brief too. I think if we just raised the army by 10%, maybe there was some reason to be proud of the defense budget and say that we paid attention to national security. In fact, these 10% are for raising wages throughout the public sector, nothing different from this! And as long as this attitude towards the army and servicemen continues as normal civil servants, the incompetence in the army will remain because we neither raise their status nor raise their authority nor help them to be socially secure. You know, at least some of you know the specifics of military activity and know very well that what the military is currently receiving is extremely insufficient and that 10% will not solve their problems. Yeah, it's good to be 10, it's better than zero, but it's worse than what we're offering. And that is why quite human, treating the military as those who are called to deal with this modern technique, which, for God's sake, will ever arrive in Bulgaria, even though part of it has already been paid, but we haven't seen it yet live, just on a drawing, at least people get a salary they deserve. The other thing we are talking about here is some numbers, we are throwing ourselves, we are talking, but we are not going into the depth of the problem, and it is that the serviceman in Bulgaria is underpaid, the service is undervalued and if we continue to treat the servicemen this way, we will soon have a modern pile of iron, but there will be no one to manage it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u387	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Mihov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u388	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, Dear Ministers! This is the second time I've heard in this room today that maybe the planes aren't coming. The first time was under the formula, my ass! I would ask myself the question: is there anyone here in this room who seriously thinks that the United States of America will not implement an international treaty? If there is one, let him come, stand up and say it directly, that he doubts that our strategic partner will lie to us and not fulfill his contract. I personally have no doubt, and I think that no reasonable person would doubt the implementation within the time limits of this commitment, but I would like to say one more thing very briefly. It is not true that the problem of the non-completion is not solved. And here, my colleagues from the Defence Committee will support me that the military leadership's testimony is clear and figures show that this year the relationship between leaving for natural reasons is 20% higher in favour of those who have been admitted to service in the armed forces. That's not my opinion. This is the opinion of the commanders, of the chiefs of our army, otherwise said. It is also not true that next year's budget provides funds for 800 military personnel. And to put it more intel, that's approximately two battalions. For the following year, funds are provided for higher salaries for soldiers equal to two battalions. If this is accomplished, we will increase the composition of our armed forces in one year with this resource. Come on, remember three years back when did a tenth of this happen? Let's ask ourselves that question. Yes, it is very easy for you to say: the budget is good, it is good, for a third year in a row you increase the wage of the servicemen, but we are even whiter, even better and we want an even bigger increase. Okay. Today we have good news from the opposition. On several occasions you said that the next elections will be in the spring of 2021. And it is a joy that the BSP finally gave up its illusion of early elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u389	Thank you. A line? You have the floor, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u390	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! I, too, said in the Commission, Dear Mr. Mihov, to you is the line, not to be so optimistic. It is not a question of whether those who are financially willing to join the army are provided. That's the problem. And that's what I want to tell you is that these 800 people, who are provided, however much money there is for them, for acceptance, are simply gone. And this euphoria, which of your words feels, do not be so optimistic! We'll talk next year at this time, so I'm asking you to accept this proposal that we've made. We're talking 104 million. 446 thousand. BGN, which is necessary for those who are currently serving to receive decent remuneration and the motivation to continue to increase. Then these 800 people can be expected to appear because if we fill in 500, we say 300 have left again, so this optimism is gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u391	Thank you. Another line? I won't. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u392	I wouldn't say that this is some unwarranted optimism, but we are realistic. It cannot be repaired in three years, especially in the armed forces and defence, things that have been missed for decades, but I do not agree that there are no decent men and women in Bulgaria who will first enter the army to do their duty. That's what the campaign shows, be a soldier!..... and tomorrow at 2:00 you will have the opportunity to meet these young, future commanders from the National Military University. Look them in the eye tomorrow and tell them the same thing you said here! They'll come in their new uniforms and be ready to look you in the eye! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u393	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. Mr. Popov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u394	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues! A lot of words have been said, a lot of numbers have been mentioned. I am glad that the conversation is going quite normally, with the necessary arguments. I might repeat some numbers, but I'll try and give them a little more meaning. It is obvious, and we all agree here that the army has not been a priority for decades, but now the army is a priority. And that's clear to everyone here, and we can't help but welcome it. For the first time, as has been said, we are passing a budget of 2 billion. BGN, increase of 202 million lv. More importantly, however, we are doing what we have decided to do for the increase of the budget and we are strictly complying with the requirements of 1.61 of gross domestic product, and even though multi-target fighters were paid before that. It was logical that this amount, which was envisaged, could be separated from this budget, but not. The budget is as you see it and I think it is quite good, perhaps not so joyful, but it is really good and is in line with government policy. The good thing is that the distribution of the budget in my opinion is also correct in terms of both staff and on-going maintenance and capital expenditure. As far as personnel are concerned, perhaps this is the subject the opposition wants to take seriously. Yeah, they could probably increase by a lot more money, but we shouldn't overlook the fact that this is the third increase, and that's 10%. This has never happened before. There are people here who have served in the army, let me know the period in the next ten to fifteen years when this happened. This is obviously the government's attitude towards the armed forces and the Bulgarian servicemen. A month ago, I sent a request to the Secretary of Defense. Since it was a matter of odds and base, I have received the following answers that I will read to you: I know that your platform provided a base of not less than 10%, and you are fulfilling what you promised. Congratulations on that, even more, which is respectable. But the odds, as they are written in the Defence and Armed Forces Act, are: for the lowest officer's office................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. If these odds apply to the remuneration that the Bulgarian servicemen will receive in 2020, this means that the lowest base for officers is 577; for an officer candidate By the way, this isn't about odds and numbers. This is about a positive trend that we cannot help but welcome, and I hope that you will support us in this policy. As for the current maintenance, you know, we discussed in the Defence Committee, we will increase the exercises at battalion level, as you were given there, but the strength of this budget is in modernisation, with the modernisation of the Ministry of Defence budget being increased three times in three years. Three times! Not 30%, not 90%, but three times, which means better working conditions, repaired equipment and buying new equipment. This is also an attitude towards personnel. If you also see the projects that are inserted inside, this means that the future of the Bulgarian army is being built and built up. These are the two highlights of staff and the modernisation of the budget that we see in front of us. This leads to more combat capabilities. That's what we expect from the army, and that's the policy I think we should agree on. Thank you for your attention. If there are any questions, I'm ready to answer them.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u395	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Are there any lines? Any other speeches? Mr. Radev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u396	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm just going to add something to the general picture of what we're discussing about defence. A lot of things have been said, including numbers. This really is the biggest budget. Bulgaria is currently the second NATO country with the largest percentage of gross domestic product. First are the United States of America, then it's us. I don't know if this is a cause for pride. You can comment in both directions, but that's the truth. We have given the most money, and in recent years, after 2007, I repeat again, so that some of you do not worry. This has happened, as it were, a priority of the government. Due to the amended international environment, for a number of other reasons [[Reply.]] Yeah, and in recent years for the entire administration. This must be recognised by the opposition. This was not done by everyone who had previously managed, I do not mean just GERB. That's what's done now, and that's what's good. Good is another thing that I want to highlight and hear clearly that all these are put into combat equipment. Not in transport, not in other logistics, but in combat vehicles that increase the military's capabilities. That's the accent, and it's very important to know. And something that I would like to highlight explicitly the cost of capital, honourable Members, here specialists know what this is about, is 30%. Before that, it was 5, 6, 7 max. 30%! We're a little outnumbered. It's got to be 20% by NATO standards, we're up to 30%. And that's always in the direction of fighting technique, including for the people in defense. In addition to those 2.41 million in the budget, this is actually the budget of the Ministry of Defence, there are some 495 million in the central budget, where the salaries are where other payments are again for fighting vehicles. This should be repeated and it should be known that the government of GERB together with our partners has looked precisely and has reached out in the most important thing about the fighting of the army. And for the people in defense, let me add one more thing. By the way, it is in our programmes, and colleagues here from the opposition who mention it, I told them and in the Commission yes, the people in the defence are important, but think about who are looking after them. You are now saying: "Let us increase the wages. " - Normal for opposition. Let's raise it instead of 10, a little bit more or there with the odds. Yeah, but I wouldn't be ashamed to ask you where they'd be taken? And I can speculate if you want. From where? From pensions, from the socially weak?! It even sounds ugly. The opposition, when it offers, must find strength and tell where. You have an alternative budget, show us where we're going to flow here. This was done by the Ministry of Finance. They said where. That's why the money is like this here, and there's a lot of it. That's the subtlety of making the budget. And all you're saying is, let's zoom in. And one last thing. In your vision, there are two other things that you do not mention and that will not warm, nor will soldiers like to build new housing blocks where they serve. I'm sorry, this is not serious. And the other thing that differs from our positions, which is in the management program, you mention, I have checked it, become part of the common European defence. Yes, it's some perspective, it's not about the people in the defense again, although now, at the moment, in the discussion of this debate, you mention them exactly. I call on you to support this budget. He's reasonable. He's really very big. I guess it won't happen to us anytime soon. But in keeping with the Programme, if you look at the odds at least, I do not want to quote them, not to waste time, for 2020, 2021, 2022 support what the government voted for a percentage of gross domestic product. And this is the responsible position of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u397	Thank you, Mr. Radev. - What's the line? Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I will put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. 200 MPs voted: 84, against 50, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 11. Vote 198 MPs: 114, against 82, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u398	Under art. 12 has a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and group: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 12 the following amendments shall be made: "1." In para. 1: (a) in Section II. Costs: - in line two. The cost of the number ss 1 669 575,5ss is replaced by the sum of 1 890 722,2s. - on line one. Operating costs the number ss 1 654 628.5ss is replaced by s1 845 775.2ss; - in row 1.1. Staff number - in row 2. Capital expenditures the number s.14 947,0s is replaced by s.44 947,0s. - in row 2.1. The acquisition of fixed assets and the major repair of the number (b) in Section III. Budgetary relations (transfers): - in line III. Budgetary relationships (transfers) the number - on line one. Budgetary statement with the central budget, the number. "1 484 575.5" is replaced by "1 705 722.21." 2. In para. 2: (a) of row 1. The policy on the fight against crime and the protection of public order is replaced by the number..967 441,2.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. b) in row 2. The policy on border protection and control of migration processes is replaced by the number (c) of row 3. Fire safety policy and the protection of the population in emergency situations the number (d) in row 4. Policy on the management and development of the system of the Ministry of Interior the number e) on the line All the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u399	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Statements? Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u400	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! This year, once again, we are looking at the budget of the Ministry of Interior and we will again have the discussion about what is happening there, what funds are being poured and what purpose are being poured. The fact is, yes, we see in this year's budget that funds have been given to increase the fund of work. The fact is that a programme has been proposed in the Ministry of Interior Act, but the question remains, when will the reform of the Ministry of Interior take place? We have made several proposals that concern the work of the Ministry of Interior and, in our opinion, are extremely pressing. It is unlikely that anyone here, even the Minister or other colleagues from the Internal Commission, would deny that these funds are unnecessary, that these funds are not necessary. Most generally, our proposal includes funds to go for capital expenditure, as we believe that these funds are needed by the Ministry of Interior for the renovation of the material base, for the purchase of more equipment that will be necessary for the next year for the re-issue of personal documents and for the following year; funds that will improve the working methods of the employees of the Ministry of Interior, their technical provision, their easier work and easier carrying out of the service. All of these things are invariably related to the results of their work and the security of Bulgarian citizens. When an employee of the Ministry of Interior is calmly performing his duties, he is materially secured, technically, has the necessary training, he will give the maximum of his work when carrying on the service. We expect, of course, your support for our proposals, because the debate on what should happen and what changes there should be in the Ministry of Interior is not being conducted since yesterday, is not being held since that day, every year we talk here. We've had cases, you know, to make extraordinary budget changes in order to be able to pay off old duties to cover current employee needs. I think the most logical and normal thing is to support these proposals, so that we do not go into similar situations in the future, so that these people can carry their ministry calmly. I don't think anyone here will be able to fight me in that direction. Mr. Marinov comes from these circles, knows what the needs are and should protect these proposals because they meet the objective reality. We had a discussion in art. 1 on this topic that there had to be increased some revenue of the state in order to be able to spend on the relevant sectoral policies. Here we come on the theme of the Ministry of Interior. Dear colleagues, nothing is more logical and nothing more normal than to support our proposals so that the ministry's functions can actually be carried out in the way in which they can bring maximum satisfaction to both the workers of the Ministry of Interior and the citizens whose interests, whose health, life, are protected by these employees, all the more so that we have repeatedly debated the migration policy that the Ministry has to lead. You can see that it is restless along our borders, there is still a conflict in the Middle East. We have placed funds to strengthen the policy of the Ministry of Interior. We expect from you the sensible decision to support what we have tabled. Otherwise, we remain hostages with one more year of unsolved problems in this ministry, which are related respectively to underfinancing, with insufficient opportunities to deploy the ministry's capacity and we will continue to sink into the swamp of all these unresolved problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u401	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Other speeches, Mr. Tsipov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u402	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! I will be very brief and will present to your attention a few facts. For the third year in a row the budget envisions an increase in the part of the staff costs. Just to remind you that for the last two years, including the following year, the budget in this part has increased by more than 400 million leva. This made it possible to increase employees' salaries for some positions, including nearly 30%. This, honourable Members of Parliament, was one of the main problems that was put to the attention of the Ministry's leadership at the beginning of this term. The first steps that were taken were in the direction of increasing the additional remuneration. In the last two years, in particular the EU budget for 2018, 2019 and 2020 foresees a serious increase in the budget of the Ministry in this particular part. Let's also look at another circumstance that remains somehow sidelined. The budgets for both 2017 and 2018 and 2019 provide for extremely serious amounts in terms of co-financing under the European funds to be allocated. The Ministry of Interior has been managing two funds for four years, and thanks to the good management of these two funds, we have been able to provide equipment for both the security of the state border and for a real countering of migration pressure. The amounts granted under the so-called Emergency Aid at the end of 2016, namely EUR 160 million, have exceeded ninety-several per cent, including a 40 million co-financing transfer for this year. lv. This will enable the Ministry this year to implement absolutely all the projects and say that we have mastered perhaps 100% of the funds provided. Funds for co-financing are also provided under the national programmes under these two funds not only under emergency measures. Yes, there is much to be desired, but I think we have shown over the past few years that we are working towards and increasing remuneration and improving conditions and providing new technical equipment that enables a quick and adequate response to the implementation of the Ministry's policies. Dear Mr. Chairman, I would like to conclude my speech with one procedure to be admitted to the Chamber on the following texts Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u403	Thank you. I will submit it after the vote on this text. The line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u404	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Tzipov, you are most likely right in terms of the funds that were attracted by the European Union, and in an urgent way, because indeed the migratory pressure was extremely serious and the danger, as I said earlier, has not fallen and should be worked in this direction. However, some additional funds in this direction allocated to the state budget will not be unnecessary at all. However, you miss the most important thing that the mechanical increase every year of employee wage funds does not give this satisfaction that is sought there does not happen reform. This is pouring money and every year we are witnessing an outbreak of one or another conflict inside the request for additional funds. Just to remind you that last year the budget that we proposed here for the Ministry of Interior was rejected in this House, and after just one month our budget was met, by the Prime Minister, only in another order. Why not accept this year the budget that we are offering you and which is the right one? You know very well that it is the right budget and these are the funds needed for the Ministry of Interior to vote them out so that after New Year's Eve the Prime Minister will not have to pour money into this sector again. The increase in wages will in no way contribute to improving the environment of work, improving district management, buying new equipment, improving the quality of equipment used to buy new equipment. That's why we want this money, and that's why we're putting it on our budget. I'm sure time will prove that we were right, that our budget is right and it will still be realized. Why make these sudden movements after New Year's Eve or after one month or another, when we can solve this problem tonight once and for all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u405	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Is there a second line? It's a hole, Mr. Tsypov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u406	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! Mr. Ivanov, I am convinced that the budget for next year will satisfy all the needs and needs of the entire system of the Ministry of Interior, inasmuch as the management of the Ministry of Interior and the political and professional, works purposefully and the facts prove what happened this year. You are talking about last year's budget when there was a need to raise wages, but let me add a few more facts. This year alone, over 450 patrol cars have been bought and distributed for police and border police. For this year alone, more than 25 regional police departments and the Firearms Departments were completed. This process will continue next year because the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works will set aside additional funds to continue these processes. So I want to reassure you if you work on purpose, results are achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u407	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. Are there any other statements? I can't see. I'm closing the debate, moving on to the vote. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 188 MPs: 71, against 52, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 12. Vote 188 MPs: for 110, against 78, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Negative vote please, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u408	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues! I voted against the budget of the Ministry of Interior because, for another year, the expenditures that have been fixed for the Ministry of Interior, around 90% of the sum of the budget of the Ministry of Interior, goes again for the remuneration of the employees in the Ministry of Interior. Here comes the question: does society feel security, protection; does the effectiveness of the work of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior feel? I'd rather say no. I'm going to argue right now why. For the past year, we have witnessed a series of PR operations with extremely high spending in my opinion. The example of the capture of the escaped prisoner, where hunters, dogs, armor carriers, helicopters were involved, at one point I felt that an operation was going on to save the leadership of the Ministry of Interior. Another important point is that the administration of the Ministry of Interior probably already exceeds the number of people who patrol the streets and who directly deal with public order security. In the Ministry there are established probably over 20 directorates with deputy directors, heads of departments and by putting the Academy of the Ministry of Interior, the Institute of Psychology and order similar services, you will see that things are not as pink as the former Deputy Minister Mr. Tzipov presents. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u409	Thank you. Mrs. Angelova, before you continue, I will put to the vote what the MP Krasimir Tzipov proposed for admission in the Chamber. Vote 149 MPs: 141, against 4, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please continue, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u410	Under art. 13 has a proposal from the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 13 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in Section II. Costs: - in line II. The cost of the number?299 194,4? is replaced by?320 389,1? - on line one. Current expenditures the number....287 610.9...is replaced by.308 - in row 1.1. The number of staff is..222 094.2...243 (b) in Section III. Budgetary relations (transfers): - in Row III. Budgetary relationships (transfers) the number - on line one. Budgetary statement with the central budget, the number 2. In para. 2: (a) of row 1. Justice policy, the number..103 b) in row 2. Punishment policy number c) on line All the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u411	We continue with the speeches. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I will put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 175 MPs: 63, against 65, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for art. 13, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 176 MPs: 105 against 70, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u412	Under art. 14 has a proposal from the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 14 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in Section II. Costs: - in line II. The cost of the number - on line one. Current expenditures the number..1 488 248,1. is replaced by,1 598 091,7. - in row 1.1. Staff number, 120 188,1 - in row 1.2. Subsidies and other current transfers the number,14 784,0 - in line 1.2.1. Subsidies and other current transfers to non-financial corporations the number - of row 1.2 Subsidies and other current transfers to non-profit legal entities the number - in row 1.3. Current transfers, benefits and benefits to households the number..1 331 (b) in Section III. Budgetary relations (transfers): - in Row III. Budgetary relationships (transfers) the number - on line one. Budgetary statement with the central budget, the number..1 460 368,1..... 1 570 2. In para. 2: (a) in row 5. Social inclusion policy, the number b) on line All the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dora Yankova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 14: Art. 14. (1) Accepts the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for 2020 as follows: on an attached table. (2) Confirms the allocation of the costs under para. 1 by policy areas and budget programmes as follows: by attached table. (3) Confirms the maximum amounts of expenditure commitments that may be made in 2020 and the maximum amounts of new expenditure obligations that may be accumulated in 2020 by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, as follows: according to the attached table.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u413	Thank you. Statements, coworkers? Mrs. Yankova, Mr. Gokov. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u414	Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposal I made concerns a change in the budgetary relations of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. I thank the Budget Committee for having complied with and supported this proposal at second reading in the Commission. What's the deal? This, fellow Members, is linked to an increase in the basic salaries of social workers and employees from the Social Assistance Directorates and is actually only 5 million. lv. During the month, social workers and employees were on strike and wanted a much higher increase - 40% and CST - and support. This offer of 5 million. lv. is real to 15% increase and affects about 4,700 people. I guess people busy with this stuff know that the average salary for a beginner in this field is a little over the minimum wage. I believe that this support, which I expect from the Members of the National Assembly today, in fact, in art. 1, I am glad that the proposal was in line and the budgetary relations were not violated, but were reflected within the framework of art. 1 as revenue and expenditure, which is only a first step as an attitude towards social workers. It is necessary to continue this as a policy of the Bulgarian Parliament and perhaps next year to develop our attitude as an increase in the salaries of both the employees of the Employment Agency and the State Agency for the Protection of Children, as well as in the Labour Inspection. I made this proposal consciously because during the year I was asking Minister Petkov, then as a minister, as regards the low salaries of people employed in the social sphere, some of the lowest, and together last year I made a step for support and policy. I am pleased that there is an opportunity, under certain policies, for Parliament to hear both opposition and trade unions and workers. This will be a good step today to increase these salaries by up to 15%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u415	Thank you. Are there any lines? Mrs. Angelova's speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u416	Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The topic of raising social workers' salaries deserves attention. As a man who has worked in this field for over 20 years, I know how hard and responsible the work of social workers is. These are some of the people who get the lowest income in the public sector. As has been mentioned, the salary of a beginner social worker is close to the minimum wage, while the social sphere is constantly burdened with new duties, new activities, given the new laws adopted during this and the previous year. Therefore, colleagues of social workers working at the Social Assistance Agency... about 4,700 social workers deserve a higher wage increase from 1 January 2020 than the 10% increase in the budget. We will support this proposal to raise the salaries of workers in the Agency for Social Assistance. It's about five million leva. There is no need to further increase the funds in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, as the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is one billion and 400 million leva approximately, and these five million can find a place in the Fund from internal restructuring of the budget of the Social Ministry and this is reflected in the report for the second reading of the budget of the Social Ministry. This is a curtsy for this heavy and extremely responsible profession and thus we will be able to keep social workers from staying to work at the Social Assistance Directorate and we will be able to motivate these people to work, as so far, with a heart and soul in this extremely heavy and responsible profession. I therefore call on all MPs to join together in this proposal and to support at second reading the proposal to raise social workers' salaries from 1 January 2020 by up to 15%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u417	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Are there any lines? And speeches? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u418	Mr. Chairman, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Deputy Minister, Mr. Chairman! I wish I could show the MPs that it is good to have the Minister of Labour and Social Policy here, although I do not underestimate the Deputy Minister's involvement in the debate. But as a new minister, perhaps she would have said more? is she satisfied, is she not satisfied with the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy because really art. 14 refers to the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Even here, among other things, are the funds for staff, for the salaries of workers in the social sphere, subsidies and current expenditure, transfers to non-profit legal entities, here are the capital expenditures, here are the policies in the field of labour market and the free movement of workers and labour migration, here are financed policies in the field of labour relations, here are financed policies in the field of social assistance and equality of women and men, policies in the field of disability, social inclusion policy, life-level policy, demographic development and social investment. Here all social policies in the social sphere are expressed finance, except for pensions that are in state social security and benefits for mothers. So this is very important to me.. what is the attitude of the Minister and what is the attitude of the people's representation to the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, many or few funds are provided here for the realization of social policies. As I said at the time of the adoption of the budget of state social security at first reading, and at second reading, according to Eurostat, Bulgaria is the country that gives the least money for pensions and aid and we are among the seven countries in the European Union with the lowest and lowest social costs. These costs in Bulgaria are only 17% of gross domestic product. In comparison for social expenditure in France, 34% of gross domestic product is given, and on average for the European Union the share is 27.9%. Both throughout the European Union and in Bulgaria, the main sources of funding for social protection are social contributions, which represent about 55% of the total revenues and transfers from the state budget, which is made up of taxes, excise duties, fees and provides about 40% of the social costs. In order to reach the average level in the European Union as a share of gross domestic product, pension expenditure and social assistance must increase by several billion. Due to the short time we have to present our proposals, we will not present and motivate all our proposals, whose implementation requires an increase in the revenue side of the budget. I will only mention what the people who spoke before me - Dora Yankova and Svetlana Angelova - that the experts and specialists working in the social sphere - the Social Assistance Agency and the Employment Agency - and the other agencies within the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy - have the lowest salaries in the public, public sector. The rest of the social workers working on providing social services by municipalities are in an even more implausible situation. Really low pay is demotivating to workers in the social sphere and all this makes the profession of the social worker unattractive and unwanted and leads to turnover. This leads to the inability to increase the quality of social services and the satisfaction of the people who provide them and the people who use them. Therefore, there is a need to increase staff costs in the social series as a prerequisite, on the one hand, as an instrument for the motivation of workers in it, and on the other, as an element of the policy of retention of prepared and motivated staff to increase interest in the profession of social worker. I will not comment on whether there are few or many funds with which we have increased the budget to increase wages. In my opinion, there are few, but I will also support this increase, because these people need to get a little more than other civil servants because they have the lowest remuneration. Here perhaps I should mention also the funds allocated to the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which will implement labour market policies. Here lies the National Employment Action Plan. In all likelihood this year, like all other things, there will be no increase for this action plan, although it increases the minimum wage. I have not yet had the time to present our proposals, which are in the field of social assistance policies. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There are our ideas for increasing support funds [[the President signals that time has run out]] For first and second grade textbooks, for the aid we provide for...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u419	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u420	...a newborn second and third child and so on. I hope you will support our policies. Now that we have exceeded time by 20 seconds, it will not make the situation tragic, but look carefully, as I cannot mention them all in the stands, to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u421	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Are there any lines? Are there any other statements? Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u422	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable ministers! And I will express my regret that we are not currently seeing the Minister of Labour and Social Policy when we comment on the entire budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. I will say two sentences regarding the proposal for an increase in the salary budget for social workers. There are 35 social assistance agencies in the country and over 4,000 people are working, but I would like to emphasise from this House what the remuneration of these social workers is. If you know, they receive remuneration of 650 to 750 BGN, which funds are approximately equal to the minimum wage. It was high time that we really thought of social workers fulfilling some extremely difficult commitments, given that last year we also adopted the new legislation for people with disabilities and loaded them with additional tasks that they need to carry out rankly. Nevertheless, I am pleased that today in this House there is an understanding of their remuneration, but I hope this will be a first step, because the levels from which they start and this increase that they will receive from 15% of their remuneration will in no way respond to the need to increase their remuneration in the coming years, and they must be in focus because their work is extremely important. They work for socially vulnerable groups. And in this regard, I am pleased that everyone in this House is in agreement with this proposal for an increase in remuneration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u423	Thank you. Are there any lines? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u424	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, I disagree with your speech and attacks on where the Minister of Labour and Social Policy is, because yesterday she was elected, then we started looking at the budget of state social security by 20 pm, she was here And now there is a worthy representative of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, this is Deputy Minister Zornitsa Rusinova. So your attacks are absolutely unfounded, there is a representative of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u425	Thank you. Another line? Here you go, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u426	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Ministers! Let everyone in this room make their own conclusions about what the colleague Angelova said. I believe that regardless of the duration, the decision was made yesterday, but the office of Minister of Labour and Social Policy is such a responsibility is carried every day and every hour. So it was also my appeal for such important questions that the presence of the minister was justified on the ground.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u427	Thank you. Mr. Dimitrov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u428	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just want to make an application on behalf of our parliamentary group that we will support this text. Our colleagues supported him in the Budget Committee not because BSP wants him or someone doesn't want him, but because these people really deserve a little more salary. This will not find any sharp reflection in the budget. Thank you. [[(Single applauses and shouts from Bravo (BSP) to Bulgaria (BSP) and Volya (VOLIA) The Bulgarian Rhodolovtsi (Bulgarian Rhodolovtsi).)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u429	Thank you. A line? I can't see. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u430	Dear colleagues, something has happened that we have rarely seen in this room since we have been together. I would like to congratulate the ruling members of GERB and the United Patriarchs for showing reason and supporting the proposal of the BSP for Bulgaria. This is the first thing you support in this budget, hopefully to drag a leg and have a next one, but this is a proposal that deserves agreement, these people deserve agreement. And although it rarely happens, I today, on behalf of my fellow Members in the parliamentary group, congratulate you on your decision to support our proposal. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u431	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Are there any other statements? I'm putting an end to the debate and moving on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 199 MPs: for 83, against 36, abstention 80. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 14. They voted 199 MPs: for 199, against and abstention there is no. [[Applause from OP.]] The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u432	Under art. 15 has a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 15 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in Section II. Costs: - in line two. The cost of the number - on line one. Current expenditures the number sss 640 096.5ss is replaced by sss 685 096.5ss. - in row 2. Capital expenditures the number "s 21 955,4' is replaced by "s96 955,4'. - in row 2.1. The acquisition of fixed assets and the major repair of the number (b) in Section III. Budgetary relations (transfers): - in line III. Budgetary relationships (transfers) the number - on line one. Budgetary statement with the central budget, the number 2. In para. 2: (a) of row 1. Policy in the field of promotion, prevention and control of public health, the number b) in row 2. Diagnosis and treatment policy, the number c) on line All the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u433	Thank you. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u434	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! I cannot fail to share the impression that, for a serious conversation about determining the future of the industry in question next year, the minister responsible is gone, and that reduces our expert start. Moreover, this budget has been tabled by the Council of Ministers and should be here. I want to address one of the most important parts of the proposed budget, this is for capital expenditure. Capital expenditure in the field of health is definitely not honored in the 2020 budget. I will mark only some areas. First of all, it's the crying state of psychiatric hospitals. Those who have psychiatric hospitals in their districts know what they're talking about. I don't want to say the strong words, because this is not the place to do black statistics, but it's a sad situation. Secondly, capital investments in those hospitals for which the Ministry of Health is responsible have been greatly underestimated. These are district and university hospitals. They do not feel the shoulder of their owner with a principal the Minister of Health or the few funds that are determined are distributed in a completely different way. There are also some specific problems that need to be solved, and I guess colleagues will be talking about them shortly. One of them is the sought funding of the so widely-known children's hospital, the pediatric hospital, which needs to find enough money. Unfortunately, at this point, you don't know how much it's worth. Colleagues will be talking about the Yambol hospital. Colleagues, we need to understand that if we want to have modern health care, it costs money. If we believe that our Bulgarian people cannot pay their services, and we in our parliamentary group definitely believe so, we must provide research and more medical activities where people do not take the money out of their pocket and do not come to these 46.6% additional payments, which make us champions in the European Union. I propose that the increase in the capital investment section be supported because it will be for the health of all Bulgarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u435	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Here you go, Mr. Penev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u436	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! Our proposed increase in art. 15, para. 1, row 2.2. Capital expenditure, and row III respectively. Budgetary relations (transfers) by 75 million lv. is justified by the need to provide financial resources to carry out urgent repairs in a number of hospitals in the country. In its entirety, it also includes the necessary funds of 30 million. lv. for the completion of the new hospital complex of the Multiprofile Hospital "St. Panteleimon in Yambol. Because from 2012 the government of GERB have made a commitment to the Yambol residents to complete the new building of the hospital with a deadline of the first half of 2014. Since then,................................................................................. lv. The decision of the Council of Ministers since the beginning of 2018 to provide the necessary funds to complete the building seems to have been forgotten because for almost two years in the case of allegedly secured funding, no action has been carried out to complete the building. How long will this important problem for the residents of Yambol be postponed? The multiprofile hospital in the city of Yambol serves a population of over 60,000 people from all over the region. It is built on a pavilion principle and all its compartments are housed in 17 separate buildings built in the early 20th century, which are currently far from the standards of modern medicine, and some of them also need urgent repairs. In the light of the above, ladies and gentlemen, we propose to increase the funds in the policies of the Ministry of Health, as well as in the part of capital expenditure, and I urge you to support it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u437	Thank you, dear Mr Penev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u438	Dear Mr. Chairman! I'm sorry I can't say, Dear Minister! I don't even see any of his deputies here in the room. I don't know for what reason. I would like to say at the beginning of my speech, although the budget of the Ministry of Health is unparalleled with that of the NHIF and it has increased by 118 million this year. BGN, the Ministry of Health is the main one I will take the liberty of quoting here a former colleague of mine, who is currently Minister of Justice, the main structure around which the entire logistics of health care revolves around. Without strong policies of the Ministry of Health in all listed here quite conscientiously, but in a moment I will allow myself to say how the funding programs, real healthcare, no matter how much money is given in the NHIF, could not be realized in the interest of the nation. In this sense, I will address some of the main problems related to the recommendations of the World Health Organization and the International Development Bank, which participated in some of our joint forums, that the main problems of modern health should be addressed in the 21st century to the problems of disease prevention. Here we have separate budget programmes, and I quote them precisely: "Promotion and prevention of non-infected diseases" which include the extremely important social group of cancers, and "Promotion and supervision of infectious diseases." There, unfortunately, there is a very minimal increase in one direction in the first programme for infectious diseases, and in terms of the promotion and prevention of non-infected diseases, there is even a reduction in costs for this year. If we are talking about infectious diseases, all the members of the Commission, including its chairman, received one letter from the Association of Preventive Medicine, which strongly objected to the non-financing of three vaccination programmes this year. I remember how hard one of them got into the National vaccination program. This is, of course, a problem worth solving with the proposals that we have put into the various directions of the Ministry of Health policy. As for an extremely important stacker for shaping the entire diagnostic set of policies in the field of infectious diseases, I would like to share with you that the Center for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases, which is the basis of our overall policy in prevention, treatment, prevention of infectious diseases, is experiencing an acute shortage of funding. The number of doctors who work in it reduces as hard as possible in the words of his director. They are replaced by specialists in biology, who, however well prepared, cannot perform the tasks that would perform specialists in clinical medicine for Master's degree and the relevant specialty in the field needed to develop this so important branch of preventive and medical medicine that is controlled by the state, and this is quite appropriate. I would like to address one of the very important sections, and this is.Diagnostics and treatment.............................................................................................. You remember, honourable Members, that in February we had a continuous debate on the problems of the transplant program in all its directions in Bulgaria. Now we see that funds are allocated there, but they are at our discretion, given that there was a prepared program for the creation of the National Donor Bank for Stem Cells in Bulgaria, which costs, speech and digital, 15 million. BGN, these funds are not enough and we believe that in this respect it can be really desired. Moreover, the same program includes residents and hospitals in hard-to-reach regions...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u439	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov, please finish your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u440	...who deserve very serious attention. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Are there any lines? I don't see any lines. A statement? Come in for a statement, Mr. Taskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u441	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I, too, am very sorry that there is no representative of the Ministry of Health and mainly the Minister. I would like to argue about our proposals for an increase in funds in two areas, namely in the policy on prevention and control of public health and also in the policy on diagnosis and treatment. Regarding the second one, the policy in the field of diagnosis and treatment. I think it is appropriate to ask ourselves here: what is going on with municipal healthcare and will it again be able to rely on assistance from the Ministry of Health, namely for survival? I would like to remind you that, at the beginning of last year, with the money that was provided, the 30 million, of which 18 million reached public health, was saved. It was definitely saved with that money. I really hope this will happen again, all the more so since January, with the minimum wage being raised, the survival of these hospitals is at stake directly. Regarding the policy in the field of prevention and control of public health. Ladies and gentlemen, I have not seen anything in the proposed three screening programs for socially significant and cancerous diseases other than the malignant formation of the milk jelly, the cervix of the uterus and the sigma, and the rectum, I have not seen anything about the prostate cartenomy. So we don't have a screening for prostate cancer, honourable colleagues. I think it's a disease that... [[Reply by MP Daniela Daritkova.]] Excuse me? Where? Look, I'm sorry, I'm talking screening, not tumor marker research, completely different things. Not even a tumor marker, but a prostate-specific antigen that's not even a tumor marker, it's just a prognostic scar. So when we talk about the National Prostate Prevention Program, this should also include prostate cancer, because a study of PSA does not solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u442	Thank you, dear Dr. Taskov. - What's the line? Statements? Here you are, Mr. Timchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u443	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! As a continuation of Dr. Taskov's speech, the problem municipal health is also responsible for the national security of Bulgaria. Do I need to remind you in 10 years how many municipal hospitals have closed their doors? [[Noise and lines.]] We don't hear from you in this room, Mr. Chairman. Nobody cares about health care at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u444	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u445	Keep some quiet and listen to each other though, guys. You may not be interested and wait only for the moment when you press the buttons on your consoles, but let's hear from each other. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u446	Don't engage in dialogue. Guys, really keep quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u447	After all, we're even here. [[Noise and lines.]] But when municipal healthcare is blocked to provide some healthcare for this Bulgarian population, we still need to have a strong emergency. For years, apart from the 10% increase in the salaries of the emergency workers, the state has done nothing in terms of modernisation and provision of emergency medical personnel at least one ambulance to buy the state. You rely only on European projects which have been protected years ago and cannot be finished. What you are proud of, with which you won the elections and lied to the Bulgarian people that you will protect this European programme for modernization and improvement of the personnel in the emergency medical care system, hit a rock. [[Noise and lines.]] The Minister is not here once again to tell him that the Ministry of Health does not have the capacity and necessary staff to manage healthcare in the Republic of Bulgaria, once again I would like to tell him that even a small municipality in Bulgaria with its low capacity protects more European programs than the Ministry of Health. Bulgaria is indebted to the doctors who work in the system of emergency medical care because the entire transition that Bulgaria has made in the healthcare system, we owe it to these doctors. They are the buffer of the dissatisfied patients from the quality and accessibility they are talking about every day in this room, neither has the quality nor the accessibility. If the state is not concerned with doctors who are on the front, who daily care for people's lives and health, what is left for the rest of those who work in the field of health. We will not support the budget particularly in the area of the budget of the Ministry of Health. [[Noise and lines, applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u448	Thank you, dear Mr. Timchev. - What's the line? Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Slavova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u449	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers, Dear Members! I, too, am surprised when the honourable Minister, who does not like to be called respectable, is not in the Chamber. Obviously he does not respect us, the MPs, when we vote on the most important law for his ministry. On the subject of socially significant diseases, I would very much like to be answered by someone from the Ministry, although obviously there is no one: how is a screening program for women for breast cancer estimated 2000 units for the year, with statistics of 4000 year-old sickly new women from this terrible disease, and what screening programme is the one that cannot cover even half of the average disease? What do we do again with the children for whom there is no new screening program in a row year, and the morbidity, as we can see, is increasing with each passing day? Since we didn't increase and find enough money for nurses in schools and nurserys, we continue in no way to care for the health of our children. Therefore, in the proposals we are making, we have placed an increase in money in two spheres in the policy in the field of promotion, prevention and control of public health and in the policy in the field of diagnosis and treatment. I call on you, honourable Members, as you have taken the first step towards conscious behaviour to support a good proposal from us, so do the second step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u450	Thank you, Mrs. Slavova. - What's the line? I can't see. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I will put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 199 MPs: 91, Against 41, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 15. 200 MPs voted: 113 against 86, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here's a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u451	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I voted against the proposal because it excludes the proposals made by Coalition BSP for Bulgaria to increase the capital expenditure of the Ministry. Unfortunately, again, as you do every year, you promise some things to the Yambol citizens and citizens of the area, then nothing happens. You could have made this gesture after six or seven years of empty promises, included these costs in the capital expenditures of the Ministry of Health and started a consistent, thorough work on building the hospital. Moreover, immediately before the local elections, the prime minister for the fourth or fifth time promised to build up the Yambol hospital, we see that this will not happen now. I assume that you will come again in the next parliamentary elections and promise this hospital again, but I want to tell you that fewer people believe you in Yambol, with this policy you will disappear. I say this not to make you vulnerable, but to tell you that in this way citizens should not be lied to in any area, but especially in Yambol, where it is literally about life and people's health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u452	Thank you. Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u453	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also voted against this health policy, which we have been monitoring for ten years in Bulgaria, because it has led to the closure and the danger of closure of hospitals of district hospitals with public participation. Such is the hospital, unfortunately, in Vidin and regardless of what the management of the hospital is and how well it is doing, the policy itself is wrong. The wards are already falling in the hospital and cannot exist because there are no footage in Vidin and the pay is low because the depopulation is at a very high level, the demographic disaster there is of threatening proportions. I voted against it, because healthcare is not trade, because it is not trade with the sick. It is not trade with the health. This is the basic difference between our proposals.. those of the BSP for Bulgaria................... and the policy that is being led at this time by the ruling majority. That is why I voted against and hope that, despite this policy, Bulgarian healthcare will survive and still be able to give some better protection to the sick, to the needy in Bulgaria. I voted against it, and I will still vote against it, as long as there is a policy of genocide against entire areas. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u454	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u455	Under art. 16 there is a proposal made by the MP Jevdet Chakarov, Nighyar Jafer and Hassan Ademov: In art.16, para. 4, row 30 of the table, the number in the third column of the table is changed from The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 16 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in Section II. The amount of assigned - in line two. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 65000. - on line one. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. - in row 1.1. The number of the number of the Member States shall be replaced by the number of the Member States which have notified the Commission of the date of entry into - in row 2. "Capital costs' is replaced by "37 598.2'; - in row 2.1. The acquisition of fixed assets and the major repair of the number (b) in Section III. Budgetary relations (transfers): - in line III. Budgetary relationships (transfers) the number - on line one. Budgetary statement with the central budget, the number..1 345 270.3.. is replaced by..1 450 - in row 2. Budgetary relations with other budgetary organisations the number - in line 2.2. The number of the number of transfers is supplied and is replaced by six29 822.9 and is replaced by six29 822.9. - in row 2.2.2. for state universities, the number 2. In para. 2: (a) of row 1. "Policy in the field of comprehensive, accessible and quality pre-school and school education. Lifelong learning. The number "650 177,9" is replaced by "720 177,9" is replaced by "720 177,9"; (b) Row 4: shall be created: "4." Specializations and research institutes abroad 15 000,0. (c) of row 3. In para. 4 the table is amended as follows: The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16: Art. 16. (1) adopt the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science for 2020 as follows: (2) Confirms the allocation of the costs under para. 1 by policy areas and budget programmes as follows: (3) Confirms the maximum amounts and commitments for expenditure that may be borne in 2020 and the maximum amount of new expenditure obligations that may be accumulated in 2020 by the Ministry of Education and Science, as follows: (according to table). (4) Determine transfers from the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and State Higher Schools as follows: (according to a table.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-04.u456	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is less time left than even for a single speech. I think we could stop. The next regular plenary session shall be on 5 December 2019 at 9.00 in accordance with the adopted Work Programme. [[PHONE RINGING]]
