ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, we continue with the first item for today: SELECTION OF THE SUPERVISOR AND THE MANAGGER OF THE MANAGEMENT OF THE BULGARIAN PEOPLE'S BANK. The procedure of choice shall be in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 8 March 2019. I will first read you the rules of procedure by which we will make the choice. The election of the deputy manager of the Bulgarian National Bank, from the National Assembly: 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidate is present at the meeting with a decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. 3. The candidate shall be represented by the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank in two minutes. 4. Discussions shall be held on the application under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. 6. The candidate shall be deemed elected if he has received more than half the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly. 7. If the applicant has not received the necessary votes, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. The report will introduce us to Mrs. Stoyanova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Please request a procedure for admission in the hall of Mr. Radoslav Milenkov who is a candidate for deputy of the Bulgarian National Bank for Management and of Mr. Dimitar Radev, Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u3	Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 123 MPs: 121, against 2, abstention is not. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u4	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Hearing of Radoslav Todorov Milenkov, a candidate for the Deputy Governor At an open meeting held on 20 March 2019 and aired in real time on the website of the National Assembly, the Budget and Finance Committee held a hearing of the proposed candidate for a sub-government, Head of the Management of the Bulgarian National Bank, in accordance with Section IV of the adopted procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of a candidate for a sub-government, the Head of Management of the Bulgarian National Bank, presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly (OJ, p. 21 of 12 March 2019), hereinafter referred to as "the Rules of Procedure'. The President of the Budget and Finance Committee Mrs. Menda Stoyanova noted that the documents presented by Radoslav Milenkov meet the requirements of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank for the occupation of the Deputy Governor According to Section III of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission's opinion on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to state security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army is that in the current inspection for Mr. Radoslav Milenkov no documents have been found establishing belonging according to the provisions of art. 25 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Mr. Radoslav Milenkov's candidacy for a sub-governeur, Head of Management, Bankov supervision, was presented by the proposer Mr. Dimitar Radev, Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. He briefed the Committee on Budget and Finance on education, specializations and professional experience in the applicant's banking field. In conclusion, according to the rules of procedure, he noted that Mr. Milenkov is a well-known and respected specialist in banking circles who has proven his professional knowledge, impeccable reputation, strong character and high moral qualities, and expressed confidence that his timely choice will ensure continuity and upgrade in the process of regulation and supervision of the activities of banks in the country and when the country joins the Banking Union. After the presentation of his candidacy Mr. Milenkov briefed the MPs about his concept of his activities as a sub-governeur of the Bulgarian National Bank. At the beginning of his exhibition, he pointed out that the main priority in the management activities of the Bank is the participation in the process of effective accession of the country to the Single Supervisory Mechanism, which outlined the three working blocks on which the Bulgarian National Bank is working. The first is the establishment of the necessary legal framework. The work in this direction is at an advanced stage as a result of the required package of legislative changes adopted at the end of last year by the National Assembly, providing for the possibility of synchronization of the supervisory processes between the European Central Bank and the Bulgarian National Bank, including by extending the instruments of macro-pridential supervision. A review and a possible change of the applicable local regulatory framework is to be carried out, guidelines to achieve compliance with the internal technical regulations of the European Central Bank and to reflect its discretionary policy in key areas of prudential supervision and risk management. The second working block refers to the continuation of the process related to the synchronization of the supervisory and prudential practices of the Bulgarian National Bank with those of the European Central Bank, internal rules and processes and the information flows between the two institutions. Mr. Milenkov emphasized that the work of the Bulgarian National Bank in this area is a logical continuation of the reforms in banking supervision launched in 2015 and it is planned to continue throughout 2019 in the following accents: - building an effective cooperation organisation with the ECB within supervisory colleges and joint supervisory teams; - optimizing a supervisory strategy according to the new institutional realities arising from the regime of close cooperation; - allocation of supervisory focus between significant and less significant institutions; - statistical data and validation of supervisory reporting; - coordination and development of information systems adequate at the new stage of supervisory activity. The third working block is related to the organisation and conduct of the asset quality review and stress test. The process is in place with regard to selected six banks and is carried out by the European Central Bank according to its methodology and macroeconomic scenarios for the purposes of the stress test. Most assumptions and parameters are determined by the Central Committee for Project Management in the European Central Bank in the case of established working communication of the Bulgarian National Bank with the European Central Bank and the Single Supervisory Mechanism in this process. In the course of his exhibition Mr. Milenkov stressed that the management activities of the Bank's supervision will continue to take place when applying the European regulatory framework applicable to credit institutions, with a focus on the consistent application of technical standards and regulations, as well as the instructions of the European Banking Authority and the recommendations of the European Systemic Risk Board, with priorities in this area being: - continuing the practice of continuous supervisory cycle through ongoing remote control and on-site inspections; - the supervisory review and assessment of banks will be carried out on the basis of the internal manual of the European Central Bank and of the guidelines issued by the European Banking Authority. The purpose of the supervisory review and assessment is to strengthen the relationship between the risk dynamics assessments in the system, the risk profile of the bank, its own capital, its liquid assets and the risk management systems and the internal control environment and, on this basis, to form a common assessment of the viability of each credit institution on an individual basis; - macroeconomic supervision, the aim being to maintain the stability of the banking system and to prevent or reduce systemic risks, as well as to identify and limit the emergence of macroeconomic factors threatening the stability of the banking system. Mr. Milenkov stressed that leading in the activities of the management "Bank supervision" in the on-the-spot inspections will be: - the assessment of the exposure of the bank to the main risks and processes in the environment it operates; - the risks arising from the quality and structure of the loan portfolio, exposure concentration, large exposures and classification of exposures; - the fulfilment of the requirements of the Internal Exposure Regulation which ensure that the bank has identified and adequately taken into account all risks arising from internal exposures and that it applies the procedures for the establishment, monitoring and management of internal exposures; - the review of existing processes and systems for risk management and organisation, rules and methodology applied by credit institutions to determine their internal capital and liquidity needs in the process of internal capital adequacy and liquidity analysis; - the assessment of the process of drawing up the accountability for management and the regulatory reporting for BNB; - the assessment of the adequacy of corporate governance............................................................................................................................................................... In the case of remote surveillance, the efforts will focus mainly on: - optimization of the early warning system based on key risk indicators and other quantitative/quality indicators as a result of supervisory and analytical activities in the management of the bank supervision and BNB in general; - imposing the supervisory review and evaluation process as the basis for ongoing and effective prudential supervision; - supplementing the European Banking Authority's validation rules with automatic validation mechanisms for supervisory reporting; - structuring supervision according to the specifics of the supervisory processes of systemically significant and less significant institutions. In addition, Mr. Milenkov stressed that before management, the Bank supervision is facing new challenges identified by the new legislative framework transposing the 4th and 5th Directive in the area of prevention of money laundering, respectively financing of terrorism. These challenges are primarily related to commitments for a regular review and analysis of credit institutions' own risk assessments of money laundering, respectively financing terrorism reflecting national and supranational risk assessment; applying a risk-based approach in line with the guidelines of the European Supervisory Authority and the national legal framework; entering of new technologies that, on the one hand, extend the opportunities for access to international markets, but, on the other hand, create a more diverse means of integrating and spreading dirty money into the financial sphere. In this regard Mr. Milenkov outlined the main priorities in this area, namely: - Proactive supervision of on-the-spot inspections in order to review control systems and establish compliance with the requirements for prevention against money laundering and terrorist financing; - thematic risk analysis reviews as a key element of the approach for effective supervision of prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing; - strengthening international cooperation and exchange of information between the Bulgarian National Bank, the European Banking Authority, the European Central Bank and the regulatory authorities in the banking sector. In this respect, the Bulgarian National Bank will be based on the signed multilateral agreement with the European Central Bank and the guidelines of the European Supervisory Authority for cooperation with supervisory authorities in the European Union; - a close cooperation with the SANS will be carried out at national level. In the field of international management cooperation, the Bank's supervision will continue to participate actively in the working committees and subgroups of the European Banking Authority, the Council of the European Union, the European Systemic Risk Board in order to achieve optimal synergies between the knowledge, regulations and risks characteristic of banking and financial mediation at European Union level and banking mediation in Bulgaria. In his work, Mr. Milenkov will continue to focus on the balance between compliance with the European Central Bank's approaches and protection of national interests by reflecting the specifics of the local market in the development of uniform European standards. In conclusion, he noted that in order to ensure an effective supervisory process adequate to the European Central Bank's establishment, it is necessary to improve analytical, resource-based "as staff and continuous qualification' and information security in management. In addition, the expected involvement of inspectors and expert staff in the work of the European Central Bank supervisory teams overseeing banking groups not represented on the local market will further put on the agenda the issue of resource security. The new functional directions resulting from the activities of the European Central Bank will require the acquisition of new expertise and/or reorganization of the current allocation of responsibilities, as well as the need to use external independent experts for the management of collateral, IT auditors, accounting audit experts, expert assistance from representatives of other supervisory authorities, consultants. No opinions or questions were expressed by the Members of the National Assembly during the hearing. According to T. Section IV of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Menda Stoyanova informed the Members of the National Assembly that only questions have been received from the newspaper "Capital" which relate to the following: What is Mr. Milenkov's relationship with Vladislav Goranov, with whom they worked together at the Municipal Bank? Is there a link between Mr. Goranov's choice of finance minister in 2014 and Mr. Milenkov's appointment as Chairman of the Board of the Deposit Guarantee Fund in the banks? According to Mr. Milenkov, what should be the relationship between the Central Bank and the executive power and whether the presence of proximity is a plus or carries risks? What policy of communication with the public and the media plans to lead as a sub-government? According to him, is there a problem in lending related to the owners of banks companies and, if so, how does he intend to solve it? How have the current bank deposit guarantee fund syndics been selected when they have no previous banking experience and are they satisfied with their activities? What is his comment on the first list of distributions approved by the Syndicates from the bankruptcy table, in which two companies are in the first row, for which former CCB directors claim to have used false documents? What is his commentary on the participation of CCB in the attempt to nationalize.Dunarit, as the bank buys by means of a claim whose origin is one of those mission operations and intercepts against which the CCB's Syndicates themselves are struggling? In response to the questions asked Mr. Milenkov pointed out that he and Mr. Goranov have good professional relations, whose scope and intensity are within the framework of the relationship between the Deposit Guarantee Fund in the banks and the Ministry of Finance. With regard to the relations between the Central Bank and the executive, according to him there should be dialogue in any case, and with regard to the scope of these relations the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank clearly defines the independence of the Bulgarian National Bank and the members of the Governing Council respectively, and good working relations between the institutions are always useful. In connection with the lending of banks' owners, Mr. Milenkov stressed that the banking activity is highly regulated by law because it is working with attracted funds. In addition, the credit activity of banks is limited by limits in terms of large internal exposures. If there is a problem, at present he cannot commit to an answer about its size, but certainly the Bulgarian National Bank is working for its resolution. According to him, the solution to the problem is in compliance with the requirements of Regulation No 37 on internal exposures of banks issued on the basis of art. 45 of the Credit Institutions Act. As Chairman of the Management Board of the Deposit Guarantee Fund in respect of the scope, intensity, frequency and addressees of the provision of information has always been guided by the requirements laid down in the Deposit Guarantee Act in banks and the Bulgarian National Bank Act. In the selection of a permanent trade union at KTB, the Governing Council of the Fund was led by the established by the Bulgarian National Bank list of syndics, which have the names of 32 people for Bulgaria, after a hearing. Mr. Milenkov assured the MPs that the trade union and the Fund have used all the funds allowed by the Law and have filed the necessary claims to attack the intercepts made, led solely by the interests of the depositors, including for the return of the The Committee on Budgets and Finance found that the proposed candidate meets the legal requirements for taking up the position of deputy governor The accumulated expertise, administrative and management experience of the proposed candidate, as well as the qualifications acquired by him in the banking sphere are positive prerequisites for the implementation of competent and responsible management of BNB. On the basis of the hearing, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to examine and vote in accordance with Section V of the Rules of Procedure, the proposed application of Radoslav Todorov Milenkov for the sub-governeur On the basis of his resignation to the President of the National Assembly, by letter No 907/01, from 1 March 2019 by Dimitar Ivanov Kostov as a sub-governant, the Head of the Government of the Bulgarian National Bank, the Committee of Budgets and Finance, proposed to the National Assembly a draft decision for the release of Dimitar Ivanov Kostov from the position of Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. I give the floor to the governor of the Bulgarian National Bank in two minutes to offer us the candidate for a deputy. Here you go, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! After the application for dismissal of Mr. Dimitar Kostov and on the grounds of art. 12, para. 2 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank I propose to the National Assembly to elect as a deputy of the Bulgarian National Bank. The reasons for my proposal relate to his high qualifications, extensive professional experience in banking and a very good understanding of both the functions and responsibilities of the Central Bank and the practices of banking supervision. Radoslav Milenkov is a Master of Finance. He graduated with honors from the University of National and World Economy. He is a well-known and respected specialist in banking circles with proven professional knowledge and moral qualities. He has considerable management experience from several commercial banks. Since November 2014 he has been the Chairman of the Board of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund. In his successful mandate as President of the Fund Mr. Milenkov maintained intense and very good contacts with a number of public and financial institutions in the country and abroad. His active working communication with the Bulgarian National Bank allowed him to get close acquainted with the processes and mechanisms of decision-making in the Central Bank as a whole and specifically in banking supervision. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Bank of Bulgaria, Radoslav Milenkov has the necessary qualities and experience to be part of the high-professional operational management of the Bulgarian National Bank, to ensure continuity in a key sphere of the mandate of the Central Bank The timely choice of Mr. Milenkov is also essential in the context of Bulgaria's accession process to the Single Supervisory Mechanism. I am convinced that the proposed candidate for sub-government of the Bulgarian National Bank and head of management "Banking supervision" deserves your trust. I ask for your positive vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u7	Thank you, Mr. Radev. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I'll read to you: Project! DECISION for the election of a sub-manager of the Bulgarian National Bank (Bulgarian National Bank) The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 12, para. Art. 2 and 4 and art. 19th para. 1 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank and on a proposal of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank HAS DECIDED He elected Radoslav Todorov Milenkov to be the head of the management of the Bulgarian National Bank for a term of six years. Please vote. They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Congratulations to Mr. Milenkov! I'll introduce you to one more. Project! DECISION on the release of a sub-manager, Head of Management, Bank supervision, of the Bulgarian National Bank The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 12, para. 7 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank HAS DECIDED Releases Dimitar Ivanov Kostov as a sub-governeur Please vote. They voted 116 MPs: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Milenkov, you're welcome to swear. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u8	I vow, in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria, to respect the laws of the country, to assist in carrying out the functions entrusted to the Bulgarian National Bank, as well as to protect the professional, banking, commercial or other legally protected secret, including after my powers have ceased. I swore! [[Applause.]] Congratulations! Let's wish Mr. Milenkov good luck! Mr. Veselinov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u9	Dear Madam President, please put to the vote on the grounds of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules extend the deadline for submitting a proposal between the first and second reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Cadastral and Property Register, No 902-01-11, which we adopted yesterday. I propose that the import period be extended by one week and that it be two weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u10	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Please vote on the procedure. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the second item of today's agenda: PROJECT OF THE DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEEDING PROCEEDING RULES FOR PROCEEDING THE PROCEEDING AND PROCEEDING OF THE CANDIDATE FOR A RESPONSIBILITY, A REGULAR HEADING, A REGULAR MANAGEMENT, A REGION, A REGISTERING AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF THE DOCUMENTS AND THE RESTRUCTION OF CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION OF BUDGET AND FINLAND, AS well as THE RESTRUCTURING PROCEDURE OF THE PEOPLE'S CONVERSION. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova, to brief us on the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u11	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on draft decision to adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of a candidate for a vice-president in charge of the management of the investment and of a candidate for a vice-president in charge of the management of the Board of Insurance Supervision, of the Commission for Financial Supervision, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly At a meeting held on 21 March 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed procedural rules for conducting a public procedure under art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the election of a Vice-President, head of the Board of Directors and Vice-President of the Board of Directors of the Financial Supervision Commission. The adoption of procedural rules is necessary in relation to the early termination of the term of office of Mr. Boyko Atanasov as Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In accordance with art. 5, para. 2 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act, the National Assembly should elect new Vice-Presidents of the above-mentioned Governments. After the discussion, the Committee on Budget and Finance with 14 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, proposed that the National Assembly consider and accept the following: Project! DECISION adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of a candidate for a vice-president in charge of the investment activity and of a candidate for a vice-president in charge of management, the Financial Supervision Commission, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 5, para. 2 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act and art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of a candidate for a vice-president in charge of the management of the investment activity and of a candidate for a vice-president in charge of management, the Financial Supervision Commission, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly I. Offering a candidate for a Vice-President, head of the Board of Directors and a candidate for a Vice-President, head of the Management Board, to the Financial Supervision Commission and the presentation of their documents. 1. The proposals for the individual candidates for Vice-Presidents, responsible for the managements, shall be submitted in writing by the Chair of the Financial Supervision Commission to the Committee on Budget and Finance through the President of the National Assembly within 5 days of the adoption of these Rules of Procedure by the National Assembly. 2. The proposals shall be accompanied by written reasons which justify the good professional reputation of the applicant. The following documents shall apply to each proposal: (a) the written consent of the applicant to be proposed for the position under the model Annex 1 to the decision; (b) Declaration under art. 4, para. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act, Annex 2 to the Decision; (c) written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Act for Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to the model Annex 3 to the Decision; (d) a detailed CV; (e) certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for completed higher education with a minimum degree of qualification in the field of economics, finance, law, mathematics, informatics and other appropriate for the supervision and regulation of the non-banking financial sector speciality; (f) documents certifying that the proposed candidate has a good reputation, knowledge, skills and professional experience and meets the requirement for work and/or service in the specialty, not less than 5 years for the last 10 years; the work and/or service experience in the specialty must be acquired according to the requirements of art. 4, para. 2 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act. 3. The circumstances of art. 4, para. 3, p. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act shall be established by the administration of the National Assembly. II. Public disclosure of documents. 1. The proposals, together with the documents attached to them, shall be published on a specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly within a period not later than 7 days before the hearing. The publication of the proposals and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. 2. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use activities and professional organisations, no later than three days before the hearing of candidates, may submit opinions to the Budget and Finance Committee on candidates, including questions to be asked. 3. The media may send questions to the Committee on Budget and Finance to the candidates to be asked. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 4. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. "Knyaz Alexander I" No 1, Budget and Finance Committee, or by e-mail: budget@parliament.bg. Opinions and questions shall be published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. 1. Candidates shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the President of the Committee on Budget and Finance. 2. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. It's a hearing of the candidates. 1. Before listening to the proposed candidates, the Budget and Finance Committee shall verify the documents submitted and whether the candidates meet the requirements for taking up the post. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. Each candidate shall be submitted by the Chair of the Financial Supervision Commission "up to two minutes per candidate. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Each candidate shall present its concept of management activities in the Financial Supervision Commission, for which it is proposed by the Chair of the Financial Supervision Commission within 20 minutes of a candidate. 5. The Committee on Budget and Finance shall hold debates on the proposals made. Members of the National Assembly shall place their questions separately to each of the candidates within two minutes of a Member of the National Assembly. Upon completion of the questions asked to each candidate by all Members of the National Assembly, he shall answer within 10 minutes. 6. The President of the Committee on Budget and Finance shall present in summary the opinions and questions of the persons referred to in art. 93, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, to which no reply has been received within two minutes each. 7. The applicant's reply to the submitted opinions and the questions raised within 10 minutes. 8. The Commission may request additional information from both the applicant and the relevant competent authority. 9. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 10. The Commission on the basis of art. 93, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall draw up a report from the hearing of the candidates. The report shall be accompanied by a draft decision to elect each of the candidates as Vice-President responsible for managing the relevant management in the Financial Supervision Commission. 11. The refusal of a candidate to participate in the hearing shall not suspend the procedure with regard to the other candidate for the position concerned. V. Election of a candidate for Vice-President, Managing Director of the Financial Supervision Commission by the National Assembly. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. 3. Each candidate shall be represented by the applicant within two minutes. 4. Debate on the nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be held. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. 6. A candidate who has received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. 7. If a candidate does not receive the necessary votes, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure for the respective position. VI. Obligation to declare incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 and a change in the declared circumstances under art. 35, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property. 1. Upon completion of the selection procedure under Section V, the elected Vice-President managing the Financial Supervision Commission shall submit a declaration of incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in connection with art. 4, para. 3, p. 2? 7 and para. 4 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act in accordance with Annex 4 to the Decision. 2. In the event of a change in the declared circumstances of the declaration referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1, the customs authorities of the Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union and of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union, of the one part, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the Republic of the other part, of the other part, of the Union, of the other The report is attached to Annexes 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, with a technical error made in Annex 5, respectively following the words in my capacity as Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u12	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. You have a say in this? I don't see any desire to make a statement. I shall put to the vote the editorial amendment made in Annex 5 to the Decision, namely to be inserted into my capacity as Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission in charge of management. We are voting on such editorial amendments made by Mrs. Angelova. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote a draft decision to adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of a candidate for a vice-president in charge of the management and of a candidate for a vice-president in charge of the management of the Board of Insurance Supervision, of the Commission for Financial Supervision, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, including the editorial amendment made in Annex No 5. 90 MPs voted: 89 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. That's what we're running out of agenda for today. Colleagues, we continue at 11.00 with parliamentary control, and will first listen to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u13	Please have one of the Quaestors invite the minister into the Chamber. We learn that it is stopped by media representatives and we cannot start the next item on the agenda. Please cooperate and invite the Minister! Dear Members of the National Assembly, we continue with the next item of the Programme: HEARING THE MINISTER OF TRUDA AND SOCIAL POLICY, LORD BISER PETKOV, ON THE PRESENTS AND PLANNED MEASURES, NEW SERVICES AND ACTIONS ON THE TRUDA MARKET, IN THE MEAN OF THE ACTIVE POLICY ON THE TRUDA MARKET, ON THE PROMOTION OF THE PRESENTATION AND THE SUPERVISION OF WORKING POWERS AND REDUCTION OF THE NON-CONFORMITY OF THE TRUDA MARKET. The representatives of the National Assembly are Svetlana Angelova, Ralitsa Dobreva and Rumen Genov. The hearing is based on art. 113 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly and the proposal is from the three MPs whose names I read. The hearing shall begin with the presentation of the subject matter of the hearing by the importers. [[Mister Biser Petkov enters the Chamber.]] Welcome, Mr. Petkov. You see what our reality is. It's a good thing you've overcome the obstacles to enter the room. We're on time. Here you are, Mr. Genov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! In 2019, the economic situation emerged as favorable for the development of the economy, which determines the growth in domestic demand. In turn, the growth of domestic demand has a direct positive impact on the labour market, as it promotes active behaviour and the economic activity of the laborable population. It is clear that the development of the labour market is linked to the increase in consumption, the increased consumer confidence and the growth of the real available income. Economic growth is a fact and is combined with creating many new jobs for which business is looking for personnel. The data from the administrative statistics of the Employment Agency confirm that the main indicators of the labour market improved in 2018. That is to say, there is a strong increase in employment and a significant reduction in unemployment. The established downward trend in the number of registered unemployed as early as 2014 was maintained in the following years, and it was found that in 2018 there was the most significant contraction in unemployment. The average monthly number of registered unemployed persons in the employment bureaus in 2018 was slightly below 203 thousand, compared to the previous year there was a significant decrease of more than 14%. It was about 230 grand back then. Last year, the number of unemployed from disadvantaged groups has decreased significantly, but work is still needed to integrate them into the labour market and overcome obstacles to their employment. Bulgaria must also implement the European Union Recommendation on Youth Guarantee and the Recommendation on the integration of long-term unemployed people into the labour market. One of the specifics of the labor market in Bulgaria, we know that is the difference in the levels of registered unemployment in different regions. After all, the expectations for 2019 are that the trend for increasing the number of employees to continue, but with weaker intensity. We therefore know that both the reduction of the working age population and the rapid depletion of potential free labour resources from unemployed and non-employed people. On the one hand, according to the business statistics of the National Statistical Institute, employers point to the lack of staff as a factor for limiting economic activity and, on the other, a lack of skills and a discrepancy between the skills sought and offered, a lack of digital skills and skills in key competences occurs in some of the employed. It is clear that the labour market places increasing demands on the qualities of each working person in terms of its knowledge and skills, and its realization depends on the potential for the development of the region in which it lives. So the main problems in the labour market as a whole are structural and local, while individualising themselves, and this requires non-standard approaches. In this hearing, Minister, we will expect you to inform us of the measures taken and planned for the new services and actions in the labour market, as well as the activities for increasing the quality of the workforce and reducing the discrepancies in the labour market. To this end, we propose that the hearing focus on issues concerning the provision of the labour force sought by employers through the relevant training services, including employment. The next focus is on increasing labour supply by activating inactive people. The third focus should be to increase the information assurance of the public for the expectation, search for a workforce and limit the differences in the skills sought and offered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u15	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Our regulations provide for an opportunity for the Minister to inform us on the subject of the hearing within 10 minutes. Welcome to your exhibition, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Genov! Thank you for the opportunity to present to you up-to-date information on the actions taken and planned measures, services and activities in the labour market. I would like to start by saying that the system for regulating the functioning of the labour market by the state was regulated nearly 20 years ago. It has active instruments that can be flexibly changed and are provided with stable funding from the state budget and with European funds. In the conditions of economic revival and low unemployment in which Bulgaria is present today, it may seem that the labour market should be left in its natural course, but this is not because new and new challenges arise. The labour force requirements are currently changing very dynamically. The presence of qualified personnel is a fundamental condition for an investor to choose our country. Demographic processes limit the supply of the workforce and a deficit is formed. The positive development of employment in the country according to data from the National Statistical Institute is illustrated by the gradual increase in the number of employees in the period of exit from the crisis after 2010 and remains almost unchanged in 2017 and 2018, despite increased demand for labour from employers. This is due to the general reduction of population and workforce and therefore the number of employees does not reach pre-crisis levels. According to data from the surveillance of the workforce in 2008, the number of employees reached its peak of 3 million. 306 thousand, for the age group 15 - 64 years, and 3 million respectively. 275,000. for the age group from 20 to 64 years. For comparison, the number of employees is 3 million in 2017. $150,000. Employment rates between the number of employed persons and the population of the same age have increased continuously since 2012, but the process has been adversely affected in recent years of working age by generations born in the late 1990s. These are years with an adverse economic situation and a low birth rate. In 2018, the labour market is characterised by employment growth and a significant reduction in unemployment. The employment rate for the 15-year-old population reached 67.7% and increased by 0.8 percentage points compared to 2017. The employment rate for the age group from 20 to 64 years is 72.4% They continue to decrease on an annual basis the continued and youth unemployment rate, with the youth unemployment rate falling by 1.6 percentage points compared to 2017 and reaching 8.3 in 2018, and the continued unemployment rate marks a decrease of 0,3 percentage points, reaching 3.1 in 2018. I have made this introduction to the subject so that I can justify the measures which, through the active labour market policy, the state is trying to be adequate to the current situation and, of course, to the forecasts of supply and demand in the future. Specifically, the first question: what has been undertaken to provide the workforce sought by employers through training, by involving in employment and providing services that people from all regions of the country have access to? I would like to emphasise here that the main priority of the National Employment Action Plan this year is to increase the quality of the workforce and reduce imbalances between supply and demand for labour through training and targeted work with the unemployed from disadvantaged groups on the labour market. If I have to describe in a nutshell where we focus our efforts, these are trainings and services. I will try to illustrate these guidelines and actions with the corresponding numbers. The state budget funds finance trainings to acquire professional qualifications and key competences that are free of charge for those trained. In 2019 it is planned to train 11 thousand. 483 unemployed persons with 7.7% more than 2018, more than 40 professions and key competences. To improve the access of the unemployed from the more remote places were increased the funds for daily transport from 10 to 13 BGN. daily. In 2019 the number of unemployed who will increase their qualifications or acquire a new qualification in close connection with the requested needs of employers in the projects of the social partners is 9% more than 2018. Professional training for 8292 unemployed persons is provided, as well as the employment of 3778 of successful graduates in jobs, according to their professional qualification. And this year the main target group on the projects of the social partners are the long unemployed and it is estimated that more than 50% of those enrolled in training will stay more than one year on the labour market and 44.5 per cent of those included in the projects are municipalities with an unemployment rate above the national average. The aim is the low-skilled unemployed to acquire professions, which is difficult by their lack or low education. Therefore, more than half of the trainings envisaged are for the acquisition of a first degree of professional qualification, which enables people with basic and lower education or graduates to be included in them. The trainings are in job-seeking professions, as the partners examine in advance the needs of employers and the latter apply for job vacancies. For the unemployed from remote regions is provided accommodation in the bases of the State Enterprise Bulgarian-German Center for Vocational Training, where more than 2300 unemployed from unequal groups will be trained in professional fields: audiovisual art and equipment, production of media products, administrative management, computer sciences, applied informatics, metal tools and metallurgy, electrical engineering and energy, food technologies, construction, hotels and restaurants, hairdressers and cosmetics services. I would like to point out that in September last year an Agreement was concluded between the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Tourism for Training of Tourism Officers in the State Enterprise Bulgarian-German Vocational Training Centre in response to requests of employers from the sector. The National Employment Action Plan in 2019 for training unemployed persons on an employer's request provides for funds of 442 thousand. £86. More than 500 thousand have been provided for training through work, that is, the so-called dual training system. Funds are also provided for training in key competences of over 1000 employees in small and micro enterprises. The other instrument we are trying to regulate regional imbalances in the labour market is regional employment programmes for each administrative area based on a proposal from regional and municipal administrations. The amount of State budget funds for each area and types of payments are set out in the National Employment Action Plan in 2019. In 2019 funds were provided from the state budget of 8 million. Eight hundred and eighty thousand. lv. for the employment of 2000 unemployed persons. The amount of funding for the programme in each area depends on the average monthly unemployment rate and the monthly average number of registered unemployed in the field of the 9 months of the previous year. In implementation of the National Employment Action Plan for this year, programmes for subsidised employment will be implemented for 16 567 unemployed, including: long-term unemployed, pre-retirement, disabled people, unemployed, caring for people with disabilities and elderly people and so on. The subsidised wages have also been increased. In order to improve the performance management system of the Employment Agency, a concept of a new focus has been developed, namely: to increase the efficiency of services, including digitising administrative processes, monitoring the impact, monitoring the performance of labour offices by forming clusters of bureaux that operate in a similar macroeconomic environment and face similar challenges in providing services. An improved set of performance indicators are defined to reflect performance in a qualitative and quantitative way. These are mainly the measures and actions taken with regard to the provision of a labour force sought by employers, and within the course of the year the main instrument for this is the National Employment Action Plan adopted by the government. What do we do to increase labour supply in terms of activation mainly of inactive people? The problem with inactive people is to reach out to them and be motivated to register at the employment desks, to look and to start working. The first step is to provide information on what they can benefit from if they are registered at the Labour Office, and in remote areas, on a pre-disclosed timetable, they organise exported jobs where they are close to persons without having to make transport costs, information, consulting, guidance services are provided. Information on vacancies shall be provided. Another tool to reach and activate inactive persons who are one reserve in the labour market is labour exchanges that are met with great interest and meet employers and job seekers. There is an opportunity for them to agree directly. Under the National Program "Activation of inactive persons" work: 79 Roma mediators, 93 youth mediators, 29 psychologists, 26 case managers. Through these individuals we strive to reach the difficult activation groups. Often this happens on the field and with high emotional workload. In 2018, more than 10,000 inactive persons were activated and registered at the labour bureaus and 2692 of them started work or training. Youth mediators have specifically activated 1392 young people up to the age of 29 of them 473 have started work or training. More than 59,000 unemployed have participated in job-seeking workshops. The other direction in which the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy carries out activities is in order to increase the information assurance of society for the expected demand for a workforce and to limit the differences in the skills sought and offered. Literally yesterday were announced the results of the medium- and long-term forecasts of demand and supply on the labour market, which were the result of the implementation of a project under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" issued by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and these forecasts are................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ According to the results of updated forecasts, the decline in population and labour supply will have a negative impact on the labour market in the coming years. In the medium term, employment growth is expected, but then the low birth rate, high mortality, migration and ageing will lead to a steady smooth decrease in the number of employed. In 2022, employees are expected to be 3 million. 151,000. The rate of employment of the population aged 15 to 64 years will be 71.9%. In 2032 i.e. in the long-term horizon, employees are expected to be less. It is specifically estimated that they will be around 2 million. 962 thousand, i.e. by 114 thousand less than 2018 and the employment structure by degree of completed education shows a decrease in the number and share of employed persons aged 15. 64 years with primary and lower education, both in the medium and long term. In the medium- and long-term economic activities, the leading two sectors, which will be characterised by the largest number of employed industries and trade, forecasting that the number of persons employed in them will continue to exceed 1 million people both in 2022 and in 2032. The two final years of forecast periods. The largest increase in employment is expected in the sectors of "Education" and sector "Search and social work." In addition to these medium- and long-term forecasts, which the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy develops with its own tools, which was created in 2013 and 2014 and which is built up, it is also working to provide information on the short-term needs of employers. This makes it the Employment Agency through the surveys conducted twice a year with the assistance of the Employment Committees to the district development councils in the 28 districts of the country and, of course, with the support of the social partners. Periodically, the results of these surveys of the Employment Agency shall be disclosed, showing what demand will be for the next 6 to 12 months and periodically this information shall be disclosed. To conclude, I would like to mention and summarize that, based on the results of these medium- and long-term forecasts, future state policies in the medium- and long-term should address mainly the following problems in the labour market. The first of these is the continuing reduction of the working age population and the ageing of the workforce. The second major problem is the deepening structural shortage of qualified staff with secondary education. Thirdly, this is the observed regional asymmetry in the development of the national labour market. Fourth, the low technological intensity of economic activities and, last but not least, the non-competitive level of pay for qualified work, determining the negative migration processes among younger age groups and the shortage of qualified personnel, especially expressed in some sectors. I'm ready to answer some supplementary questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u17	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the first round of questions asked on behalf of parliamentary groups. We begin with the parliamentary group of GERB. Who's gonna ask a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, we welcome the information you shared with us about the forecasts developed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for the development of the labor market in Bulgaria by 2032, but if you could explain to us: exactly how they will be distributed and used by the institutions and all citizens of the country? How will their results be taken into account, and where exactly will they be applied? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Iron. Mr. Minister, please answer the question. This is the regulation after each question you answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u20	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy shall take possible measures and actions to give greater publicity to the results of these forecasts. I have already said that yesterday a conference was held at which the results of the last medium and long-term forecasts were first announced. The research team report will be available on the website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for all who are interested, because undoubtedly these forecasts are important not only for government, but for employers, and for trade unions, and for the growing population, which must make their choice in what to train and in what professional direction and what future work can achieve a good realization of the labour market. Specifically on the subject. There is a mechanism adopted by the Council of Ministers' Decision as early as 2014, with which the results of the forecasts are distributed to ministries and agencies with a view to their use in planning the relevant sectoral and regional policies. According to this mechanism, which was developed after the long-term forecasting model was developed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, these forecasts are brought to the knowledge of all the institutions and departments concerned so that they can be taken into account in the development of sectoral and regional policies. These forecasts are used to determine the number of students in universities mostly in newly discovered specialties. These forecasts may also assist you as MPs in preparing or considering proposals and decision-making by the National Assembly for the establishment or restructuring of university units and affiliates. The other direction and action for the use of the results of these projections are in the preparation of measures and policies in the annual national employment action plans in order to highlight the priority directions of action and, of course, we are again stepping on the relevant forecasts. They are also oriented in the preparation of the two-year training plans of the Bulgarian-German Center for Vocational Training, as well as the trainings conducted by the Center for Human Resources Development and Regional Initiatives at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The results for the search for a qualified workforce in the medium term are also the basis for planning training for the acquisition of professional qualifications carried out under the projects of the social partners. Processes are also used to prepare proposals to update the list of professions for which there is a proven shortage of highly qualified specialists. So these are the many directions in which the results of the forecasts prepared by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for the development of the labour market are used. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u21	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. According to the Rules, the next question should be raised by the BSP parliamentary group. This will obviously not be done due to the absence of the MPs in the Chamber. There is an opportunity for a question of the parliamentary group of... United Patriarchs................................................................................................ Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u22	Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Last year, the agreement on integration into employment with the long-term unemployed began. Since it's been a year, can you tell us what the results are so far from this program? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u23	Thank you, Mr. Siddy. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u24	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, long-term unemployed people or long-term unemployed persons are one of the vulnerable labour market groups, which are primarily targeted by active labour market policy measures, as one of the initiatives that was prepared and implemented last year is precisely the conclusion of an agreement on integration into employment with long-term unemployed people. This Employment Integration Agreement is an instrument that applies to reducing long-term unemployment and helps the people of this vulnerable group to overcome different barriers that prevent them from starting work. This is a written document which is part of the action plan, which is developed with each unemployed person and which identifies realistic objectives and commitments by both the labour mediator and the unemployed according to the identified problems. The Agreement lays down the time limits for the implementation of commitments made by the Parties and contains a proposal for both the use of specific intermediary services and the direction towards services provided by other institutions. In order to support the implementation process of the measures laid down in these agreements for integration into the employment of long-term unemployed persons, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy initiated and concluded a Framework Agreement with the Association of Municipalities, with the Ministry of Education and Science, Health and other institutions that can locally support the implementation of the objectives set in these agreements. Specifically, Mr. Siddy's question. The results of the actual conclusion of the Employment Integration Agreement, which began in the middle of last year, we can talk about results for a period of about nine months, the agreements signed specifically for the second half of last year for integration into employment of long-term unemployed persons are 53,870, of which 13 732 are concluded in the employment and social assistance centres. I note this because it gives me the opportunity to say that for several years the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has been developing a project and is therefore trying to serve the unemployed and, at the same time, those who need social assistance in the established centres of employment and social assistance. So these are the results at the moment. Accordingly, the signing and implementation of the employment integration agreements with the long-term unemployed continues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u25	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. It is time for the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms to ask a question to the Minister. Mr. Ademov will do that. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The labor market is a dynamic space. The correct development of the processes in the labour market has a direct bearing on both the development of the economy and competitiveness and the increase in gross domestic product. In this regard, I would like to note the trends observed in the dynamic functioning of the labour market in recent years. On the one hand, there is a lasting trend for reducing unemployment, on the other hand, however, there is also a trend for increasing job vacancies. In 2017, according to the employment agency's information, there are around 240 thousand job vacancies, which means that there are structural problems in the labour market. Taking into account the Beverage curve, its characteristics in recent years have pointed precisely to structural problems in the labour market. In this regard, my question relates to this: the tools available to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, to the opportunities the government as a whole has, what are the measures you take to address these structural problems in the labour market? Because it is obvious the phenomenon that has been observed in recent years. On the one hand, employers seek skills, seek specific knowledge and actions, on the other hand, the Ministry of Education and the education system offers qualifications that do not work for employers. The second question I would like to ask you is related to what you mentioned, too, with the regional problems of the labour market. There are regions in Bulgaria such as Plovdiv, Sofia, Varna, Burgas, where the employed are at serious levels, while in other regions such as Northwestern Bulgaria, Northeastern Bulgaria, employment is far below the national average. Moreover, we have promised in the National Employment Programme 2020 levels of employment around 76%. Employment reached record levels of 66.9% in 2017. In this regard, what are the measures to address regional imbalances, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, can we reach the 76% employment promised in this National Strategy?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Minister, we're waiting for your answer. You have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u28	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ademov, indeed the labour market is as you described it, a complex dynamic space, especially in recent years, when serious changes occur in the world of labor, if we say in general, related to the emergence of new forms of employment, the dropping of professions, the emergence of new professions and so on. But specifically on the two issues you have raised about the measures to address structural discrepancies in the labour market. Indeed, apart from the shortage of labour, which emerges as a quantitative problem, another serious problem on the Bulgarian labour market are these structural discrepancies. So we have, on the one hand, underdose, and, on the other hand, deficit. Firstly, I would like to say that these structural discrepancies are inherent in each market. The question is that they do not reach size and scale to interfere with the normal functioning of the market because, as you said, the labour market is linked to many other systems. It is employment that depends on the pace of economic growth, the revenues in other public systems depend on the social security, and, in turn, the labour market suffers the effects of demographic processes. Two are the main structural problems in the Bulgarian labour market. The first is the so-called educational imbalance, which is addressed accordingly by measures carried out under educational policy. And what the report and the analysis carried out by the research team, which made the preparation of medium- and long-term forecasts for labour supply and demand, are that there is an imbalance in the Bulgarian labour market, respectively, between the educational structure of people of working age and the need for qualification, from educational level of professions, of the activities they are looking for. I also said at the beginning that there is a serious shortage of staff with secondary vocational education, and I think that this problem is really at the heart of the policies that are being developed and implemented in the field of education, namely to direct young people to secondary vocational education, to increase their attractiveness, to increase their vocational schools, which give the relevant specialty, craft and so on, because this problem will exist in the medium and long term perspective and what emerges as a result of processes that have taken place earlier is that in Bulgaria very quickly, for a period from 1985 to 2011, if I am quite accurate in the period, the number of the share of graduates in Bulgaria is increasing three times. And we are in a situation where, yes, the employment rate of people with higher education will be higher than 90%, but a large part of them will occupy positions that do not require higher education. That is, the greatest demand for jobs and activities that require secondary professional education, so that these places will be occupied by graduates and respectively by people and with a lower degree of education. I think this structural problem in the labour market has been identified and the actions of the educational system address it very strongly. Of course, we cannot expect that it will be overcome in a short time, because these are inertial processes, require real changes that will result in a longer period of time. With regard to regional imbalances in the labour market, this is the other serious imbalance and the other structural discrepancy. What I can say is that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy counteracts these negative processes through, firstly, regulatory changes. You know that last year it was changed and amended the Rules for Implementation of the Employment Promotion Act, which encouraged the labour mobility of people from regions where there is little labour supply to centres where there is a supply of labour. And the other action by the government was the launch and implementation of the National Program, which started at the end of 2017 with budget funding and continued with funding from the Operational Programme. You know that this Programme is aimed at providing jobs in municipalities with an unemployment rate that is above the national average. With regard to regional imbalances, we also rely very much on the regional employment programmes, which I mentioned in my exposé, which are provided each year as a resource in the National Employment Action Plan and which take into account, respectively, the specific specifics of demand in the 28 districts of the country. However, I would like to point out that many serious imbalances in the labour market, which also require serious efforts and time to overcome them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u29	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodophilists, will there be a question? You won't be taking this opportunity. There is an opportunity for non-members in parliamentary groups to come up with a question. I don't see any desire. Moving on to the second round of questions. Again, from GERB's parliamentary group, please come in for a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, in a large number of jobs offered, the transition from unemployment to employment can be very short if adequate services are provided for job seekers. In this regard, my question to you is: does the Employment Agency apply new services and how do the services provided at the labour offices develop so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u31	Thank you. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u32	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Dobreva, in my statement, I stressed that the measures and policies laid down in the National Employment Action Plan this year can be summarized in two words "skill," i.e. increasing the quality of the workforce, and services which the Employment Agency, as a public mediator in the labour market, offers. So, in addition to standard brokerage packages, the Employment Agency also develops new services aimed at reaching inactive groups of the population, to activate them, direct, consult and guide them for the purpose of starting work. Specific examples of new services I can point to the pilot implementation of four new services in two regions of the country in 2018. The first of them is consultation and mentoring after starting work. This service is aimed at vulnerable labour market groups where the most risky are the first few months after the start of work, consulting in addition to individuals and employers themselves in order to ensure sustainable employment. Another new service that is absorbed in practice are mobile labour offices. They are aimed at unemployed and economically inactive persons and employers from small towns. You know that the Employment Agency does not in all municipalities have employment offices, so this implies corresponding mobile services in order to reach the unemployed from the smallest settlements. Another new service is the family labor consultant. It is aimed at unemployed people from vulnerable groups and their families who are at risk of poverty. Within the framework of the service, family members shall be informed and consulted about the possible and provided by the respective Directorate of Labour and Services. The fourth of the mentioned new services, which in 2018 piloted the Employment Agency, is the service called the Professional Compass Here I would like to add to what is said that the Employment Agency also develops specialized services to improve the employability of job seekers through a new model of profiling of persons through a module. The data I can share for the use of the module is that more than 11 000 job seekers are connected and 728 job intermediaries, more than 10,000 personal profiles are created, with 66% of persons increasing their employability after work on overcoming competence deficits within the Development Plan. The employment agency's efforts, together with the implementation of standard intermediate services packages, are to introduce new services, to process their application in practice and to include them in the activities and services it offers to the unemployed and employers in order to facilitate and quickly implement meetings between them in order to start working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u33	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From the group of the United Patriarchs. For a second question, please come in, Dr. Popovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the second question from the group of the United Patriarchs is also dealing with a very important problem. This is the number of young people in Bulgaria who are neither in education, nor in employment, nor in any training, with the English abbreviation NEETs, which percentage we still maintain relatively high compared to the common standard of the European Union. According to the latest EUROSTAT data from 25% in 2013, we have downgraded it to 19%, but we are still far from the average for Europe, where there are about 13%. What is done in this regard in order to integrate this young population into education and employment? And possibly a second sub-question: what is the specific activity of youth mediators to municipalities in this case? As a committee we started commenting on this topic, now in plenary to further develop the thesis, Mr. Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u35	Thank you, Dr. Popovski. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Doctor Popovski, really young people who neither learn nor qualify nor work and nor are registered in the labour bureaus are a specific group on the labour market, which is subject to attention, measures and at a common European level. You know about the Youth Guarantee that was accepted and applied. Bulgaria also has certain results in reducing the share of this group, as you mentioned, known for the abbreviation NETs. The efforts we are making are primarily linked to some new intermediary services. They aim to reach this group and be activated. The main instrument to be applied are the so-called youth mediators. These are young people who have graduated from higher education with good communication skills, who at the same time know well the legislation in the field of labour, education. Accordingly, their task is to apply the approach to help young people at local level identify, reach and activate those young people who are inactive. The aim is for contact with inactive young people to be in an informal environment, such as opportunities for inclusion in education, training and employment to be presented in an understandable and accessible language for young people. These youth mediators act as mediators, on the one hand, between inactive young people, and, on the other hand, the institutions that provide adequate social, health, educational and other services. As is known, youth mediators have been appointed to municipalities, and we also rely on municipalities to help them create good working conditions and, accordingly, to carry out the tasks assigned to them. Youth mediators also benefit from the established interinstitutional interaction in order to provide integrated services tailored to the individual needs and opportunities of each youth to assist the activation process. I can specifically mention that 93 youth mediators are currently working on this. With their efforts 1392 young people until the age of 29 in 2018, they were activated by registration in the labour bureaus. Of these, 473 are included in employment or training. At the same time, youth mediators have assisted other 678 young people up to the age of 29 to participate in education, training or employment. Our efforts continue to activate as much of the youngsters as possible in this particular group. We are also looking for other instruments, along with youth mediators, to increase the effectiveness of our efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u37	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Next question from the Group of the Rights and Freedoms Movement? I don't see a request. The group of the Bulgarian Rhodolists will not take this opportunity either. That concludes the questions to Minister Petkov. There is an opportunity on behalf of the parliamentary groups to express an opinion and attitude towards the Minister's responses. Mrs. Angelova, please come on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u38	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, thank you for your information. Although in the short time we have, it can be concluded that the measures and actions taken by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Employment Agency are adequate and timely. It is clear that the main challenges facing the labour market in the future will be caused by the reduction of labour supply as a result of demographic and migration processes and, above all, the structural discrepancy with regard to the supply of a workforce with certain knowledge, skills and labour demand by employers. We positively appreciate the measures and actions taken to increase the number of unemployed trained, to improve access to education, to acquire professional qualifications. However, more unemployed people need to be motivated, involved in training, acquired new skills and professional qualifications in order to be competitive in the labour market. As a result of the active work, the programmes and measures implemented by the government, the reduction of unemployment among the unequal groups is a positive trend and is the result of the active engagement of the state to implement the European Youth Guarantee and the recommendation for integration into the labour market of long-term unemployed. The action to use the potential to increase the supply of the workforce by activating the economically inactive persons is also timely. This is a reserve in the labour market that must be used by employers. In order to achieve good results, actions and services are developing, becoming more and more accessible. In essence, they include, along with job-seeker services, unemployed persons as well as training, subsidised employment. It is positive that these actions take into account the profile of the job seeker. Members of the National Assembly will be interested in the future in the development of services and their electronization, the implementation of modern software for selection and evaluation of candidates for employment as required by employers. Electronic services will not replace the activity of labour intermediaries, as many job seekers prefer the person-to-person requests, individual support and psychological support. So far there has been positive experience with the work of Roma mediators, youth mediators to municipalities, psychologists whose capacity should be developed by acquiring knowledge and skills for applying new tools and techniques for working with unemployed people. Subsidised employment in the event of economic recovery remains only for the most vulnerable groups - these are the permanently unemployed, without qualification and the disabled. It is necessary to continue the assessment of the impact of programmes to achieve more sustainable employment in respect of subsidised employment programmes and to improve the quality of the workforce. A beneficial effect on employment will have an increase in the role of social partners in determining the skills needs of the workforce, assessing competences, training of unemployed persons and supporting their employment by employers. We expect to be periodically informed about the results achieved, but we are willing to support, if necessary, changes in legislation, the development of the active employment policy in order to respond to the latest challenges of the overall revival of the Bulgarian economy and the modern dynamically developing and changing labour market. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u39	Thank you. Is it relevant to the other parliamentary groups? I don't see any requests. That concludes the work on this point in our weekly program. I thank Minister Petkov for his participation today in this hearing and for the content answers he gave to our questions. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next, last point of the weekly program, and it is: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period 15 March 2019 are not available. Written answers for the service of questions asked by Members of the National Assembly to representatives of the Executive Board by: - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on a question from the National Representative Kristina Taskova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Daniela Daritkova; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Spas Panchev; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov. Let's move on to the questions. Mr. Hristov, come in and ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, regarding the transparency of the spending of state funds and the protection of the interests of Bulgarian taxpayers, as well as with the published information about the national campaign "Be a soldier", please answer me the following questions: what does the campaign provide for "Be a soldier" and who is the contractor of the project; what is its budget and what funds have been spent so far; which media are campaign partners, how they have been selected and what funds they have received; how much has the army composition increased as a result of this campaign; with which media the Ministry of Defence has contracts to reflect the activities of the Minister and the Ministry and for what amount? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u41	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Answer from the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u42	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, according to my command, performers of the project of the campaign Be a soldier are: Department of Public Relations and Public Relations of the Ministry of Defence, National Guard, Central Military District, Land Forces, Naval Forces, Air Force, Military Medical Academy, Military Clubs Executive Agency, Military Holiday, Human Resources Management Directorate. The overall coordination shall be carried out by the Public Relations Directorate. Such a campaign is realized for the first time in the history of the Bulgarian army. However, large armies of EU member states, NATO, including Russia, have similar practice. For a reference in the Federal Republic of Germany for only one show "Be a soldier," the annual budget that separates their ministry of defence is 8 million. Euros. Through the campaign we expect to draw young people's attention to the military profession and help them become part of the Bulgarian army. The main focus is on: restoring the authority of the military service; promoting the activities of the military formations related to increasing the training of the servicemen; maintaining and improving the capabilities for the implementation of the three missions that stand before the Bulgarian army. Particularly important emphasis is placed on the tasks the Bulgarian army performs to help the population. The campaign was launched on 22 October 2018. As a design it covers various modular elements which in themselves have a powerful significance and will take place in 29 cities across the country from the beginning of this year to December 2019. This campaign provides for several events within one afternoon. It is available for static display of military equipment and equipment in open spaces, which enables young people to direct contact with active military units and servicemen as well as to obtain information about the technique they use. At the same time stands are located on an information exchange where representatives of the Central Military District present full information on possible positions in the types of armed forces. The campaign also includes a concert on the ground featuring the Representative Ensemble of the Armed Forces, the Guardian Representative Spirit Orchestra, dance groups, singers and performers from the local structures of the military clubs in the country. For this purpose, brochures shall be prepared presenting the individual types of armed forces, as well as information posters printed at the Ministry of Defence printery in the town of Troyan. The general concept of the campaign also provides for the broadcast of 30-second videos and audio clips for which preliminary talks will be held with the National Television and with some radios. When choosing radios, we are oriented towards those broadcasting in the regions of the country where military formations of high numbers are distributed, and we have therefore considered the demographic characteristics of each region in the country. The deadline for the campaign, as I said, is one year. Before the beginning of the same campaign of the Programme Council in the Ministry of Defence was submitted a draft financial plan with indicative estimates of the individual activities. The Council has, in principle, approved the estimate submitted. Further proposals were subsequently received from the contractors of the Bulgarian army for restructuring the financial plan. At present, I stress, it is all about planning. I suppose you're making a difference between planning and already incurred expenses? Taking into account the proposals submitted, a discussion is under way in the direction of restructuring and formulation of this plan. It is essential how talks with the media will be held and how much this would cost. I'm talking mostly about the ad 30-second audio and video. But the most important part of your question, in fact a few important questions you are asking are currently spent 32 719 BGN. with VAT, including rent of hall in the National Palace of Culture, rent of projectors and development of four videos for the Bulgarian army. The campaign is developed with the Ministry of Defence's own media, personnel and financial resources. When I say "owners," I mean the Military Television Channel, the Military Ministry website, a special site that was made for the campaign. Be a soldier, i.e. own funds. We didn't engage private or public media. I skipped the newspaper "Bulgarian Army" and so on I look to cancel. You ask me the question: what is the result? At the end of 2018, it was the first year in which for the first time in the Bulgarian army there were more servicemen in attendance than they left, i.e. the very beginning of the campaign gave a positive trend. Since the beginning of this year, about two and a half months to date, additional 341 people have submitted documents to the military district as a result of this campaign. The Ministry of Defence has no contracts with media to cover the activities of the Minister and the Ministry of Defence. I stress that contracts for coverage of the Minister and the Ministry have not been concluded. There are no contracts for the campaign. Be a soldier about which you ask me questions. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u43	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You tactically correctly stated after the end of time that you would answer the most interesting questions and forced me to wait for you in violation of the procedure, but it seems important for everyone to hear your answers. For your reply you have the floor, Mr. Hristov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, it has become clear from your reply to me that there are still no videos and audios broadcast until now, except for the Military Television Channel. Yeah, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u45	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Would you like to supplement your response? Here you are, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u46	And thank you for that question. It is important because the debate itself on the non-completion in the Bulgarian army, i.e. the ways of its resolution in parliament is important for the Bulgarian society. Of course, it is also important what funds will be spent. I answered you at the time how many expressives are when this plan is ready. I will tell you frankly, we refrain from negotiations and talks with the media and conclusion of contracts for the reason why the Ministry of Defence is not accused of spending money at a time when election traps for the European elections will take place and therefore this process for negotiations has not started. Such a campaign, as we do, is good to be supported by the Bulgarian institutions. I say again, at this stage we use our own equipment, the servicemen themselves, the military district, whose duty is to carry out similar activities in recruiting personnel with the idea of showing the public the army and its technique something that was happening in Bulgaria until one year ago only at military parades one time in the year of Gergyovden. I can assure you, and if you wish the schedule will be provided to you. You will see that there is great interest not only in smaller towns, but also in Sofia, where this campaign is launched, there is great interest in the technique that we bring out, the uniforms, the young people, the armaments. We believe that with the resources at our disposal, to load it maximum as opportunities to present the army to the public and overcome the problem of non-completion in the Bulgarian army, which amounts to approximately 6,000 people. I say again, for the first time last year the Bulgarian army ended with a positive result, albeit a minimum of 156 people have received more than they left. By the end of this year we will report the result, but at the moment I think there is a good result. If there are other institutions involved in this campaign, if we expand the media presence a little bit, I am convinced that it will not happen only with videos, because a video entered into the advertising block with the other products that are advertised will not have this big effect. Perhaps through public media, which are subsidized by the state budget, the organization of live participation programmes, the coverage of military teachings, would have a much greater effect than in the traditional way videos, videos and audio videos. But, as they say, it is a matter of common will and good judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u47	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. I take this opportunity to apologize to Mr. Hristov for the involuntary delusion that I led him into and for his quick reaction that we organized this interesting conversation with Minister Karakachanov. We're moving on to the next questions. They are to Mr. Rumen Porozhanov, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests, who will answer, firstly, a question of the MP Radostin Tanev on the construction of missile sites for anti-urban protection in Stara Zagora district. Here you go, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, at a meeting with the farmers from Stara Zagora District, one of the main issues that excite the establishment of missile sites for anti-urban protection in Stara Zagora district was presented at the foreground. Given the geographical situation and the diverse relief of our country, Bulgaria is defined as one of the most urban areas in Europe. The hails are one of the biggest enemies of the harvest and each year thousands of acres of agricultural produce are threatened by destruction by this natural disaster. In this regard, my questions to you are: how many missile defense sites are being built on the territory of Stara Zagora District and when will they be put into operation? What is the status of the properties on which the sites are located? On what basis does the Executive Agency "Fight with hails" use these properties? What is the area protected from hail territory in Stara Zagora region at the present time and how much will this area increase after the launch of the new launch sites? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u49	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. Mr. Minister Porozhanov, you have the floor to answer the question from the MP Radostin Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Tanev! The Executive Agency is active in anti-city operations through the existing 199 missile sites operating for the anti-city protection, operating under the direction of nine command points to combat hails within eight regional departments. In 2018, investments have been made to put into effect two new regional directorates, including two new command points, and 63 new missile stations in the village of Taja, Stara Zagora and the town of Haskovo, which will be put into operation during the new active season of city protection this year. 25 new launch sites have been built on the territory of Stara Zagora region. The active season is scheduled to start at the end of April or in the first days of May, depending on the weather forecast and the development of crops. The majority of the properties on which the new sites in Stara Zagora are situated are municipal property and under a decision of the respective municipal councils the right to manage and use is granted to the Executive Agency. The rest of the properties are state-owned and are granted to the Agency by order of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests with the right to manage. The Executive Agency is implementing urban protection activities on an area of 17.2 million. Dekara, of which the arable land has an area of 11.7 million. The area of arable land in the country is close to 38 million. Dekara, which means that approximately 30% of all arable land is protected from hails. After the introduction into service of the new 63 yards, as I said, will start working this season, they are ready and are currently employed and trained employees, and are, of course, provided with the relevant equipment and missiles, the protected territory will increase by 4.8 million. Dekara or 17 will become nearly 22 million. Dekara, of which protected arable areas will increase by 2.2 million. We are talking about the agricultural sector, nearly 14 million. Decare, which is approximately 35% of all arable areas. The missile sites that protect the territory of Stara Zagora district are working under the management of a command post in the village of Petrovo, Stara Zagora District, and a command post in the village of Popovitsa. So far, the area of the agricultural land protected by hail in Stara Zagora district is approximately 2.5 million. Dekara, of which the arable land is 1.1 million. Dekara, according to data from the district directorate. From the new 25 launch sites 23 will carry out their activities, led by the new command post in the village of Taja, and the other two new sites will fall under control of a command post in the village of Petrovo. Once the new rocket sites start operating, the total area of the territory protected by hail in Stara Zagora region will increase by approximately two million acres and more than 90% of the arable land in Stara Zagora region will fall within the scope of the anti-urban protection. Unprotected will remain only the northernmost part of the area, representing the mountain areas in the region of Stara Zagora, with an area of about 650 Dekara. Perhaps in reply to the reply I will give some announcements on this activity and on the new law, which was adopted on Wednesday by the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u51	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mr. Tanev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u52	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Indeed, the answer was comprehensive enough, but there is another question on the agenda: to what extent will farmers themselves be involved in the activities of the new urban sites? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanev. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u54	Thank you. Currently in the overall model the funding is carried out by the state budget. The Executive Agency is funded entirely by the state budget as a secondary authorising officer of the Ministry. The law, which has been publicly discussed nearly one year, envisions the establishment of a state-owned enterprise, with the new undertaking benefiting from all rights and obligations, of course, and the functions of the Executive Agency. The idea of the new law is to cover the whole territory of the country for treatment of the entire arable area. The missile method is a little more expensive, and in Europe and other countries there is already an aircraft method, including the fight against hails and anti-city processes, of course, and the downfall, which is becoming an increasingly up-to-date issue in the current very changing climate conditions. In the Bill is laid down, apart from the state budget, to have co-financing by farmers from those who use, have arable areas and are subject to support under all schemes. There are many schemes without pastures and meadows, as pastures and meadows have nothing to really protect themselves from hails. Initially, in the Bill, we had bet funding from farmers to be 50 percent. the decare, such as the difference that does not reach in the developed financial model, to be covered by part of the insurance premiums of the insured persons under three of the insurances Of course, we have encountered an absolutely negative attitude from the insurance business and they have managed to create a lot of tension around this bill, including media. And in conclusion, we assessed this sharing by the insurance companies, although the overall treatment of the territory of the country also helps the urbanized territories in these cities has suffered, suffer a lot, and most of all the cars would be protected by this method. Either way, we're betting 0.75 in the Bill right now. This is the component that fell out of the insurance companies and we had bet. In advance, in addition to having many meetings with associations that fully support this model, we have also done a sociological study through one of the leading prestigious sociological agencies, more than 80% support full coverage of the country and about 84% support the payment of these contributions. The contribution is absolutely reasonable, and in order to make an effective coverage of the country, sharing of responsibility and funding must be shared, so that in this bill, which will enter the National Assembly at any moment, will pass through the committees, of course, I hope also through the plenary. These are the basic parameters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u55	Thank you for your answer, Dear Minister. Thank you for participating in parliamentary control today. We continue with questions to Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, who will answer a question from the National Representative Ivan Valkov about the collection of a noise charge from the airports for public use. You have the floor, dear Mr. Valkov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! In accordance with art. 120, para. 1 of the Civil Aviation Act, public use airports collect fees from aircraft for landing, parking, passengers and passenger sleeves respectively. Two other charges have been introduced since 2012. One is a security fee, and the other is a noise fee or ecology, the latter was made on my proposal and the colleague Emmanuela Spasova, and after 2012 entered into force. This charge shall be collected and covered by environmental needs costs which are also linked to limiting harmful emissions around airports. In this regard, my question to you is as follows: what are the financial revenues from a noise or environmental charge for all airports for public use in 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018. In general and separately, for airports in Sofia, Varna, Burgas and Plovdiv, and how are these funds spent?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u58	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Valkov, for Sofia airport for 2015 the revenues from noise fee are 707 thousand. 503 lv. and spent 867 thousand. BGN 270. In 2016 the revenue was 862 thousand. £278. and 664 thousand were spent. 853 lv. For 2017 the revenue is 1 million. Eighty-five thousand. BGN 218 and 611 thousand were spent. BGN 989. For 2018, the revenue is 1 million. 169 thousand. 452 BGN, spent 718 thousand BGN 896. In general, for the period 2015 - 2018 the revenue is 3 million. 824 thousand. 451 BGN spent 2 million $863,000. £800. The main costs of the noise charge supposed for the period 2015 - 2016 are related to the accrued depreciations on the assets already acquired for environmental purposes. These are an existing noise monitoring system, a stand-by noise shield for testing aircraft engines and others, as well as maintenance of these assets. During the period considered, the system for monitoring aviation noisy observations of flight trajectories by declaring hardware and replacing the existing software platform with a new one with internet access via cloud hosting was updated. A noise charge also funds the airport's accession to the airport's carbon accreditation programme developed at the International Council of European Airports and its certification at level one, as well as the maintenance of the integrated quality and environmental management system in a clean environment. In addition, environmental measures related to monitoring the quality of groundwater and surface water, air cleanliness and waste management are financed from the charge. The main costs of noise charge for the period 2017 This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme, the achievement of the objectives of the programme, the achievement of the objectives of the programme, the achievement of the objectives of the programme and the achievement of the objectives of the programme, the achievement of the objectives of the programme, the achievement of the objectives of the programme, the achievement of the objectives of the programme and the achievement of the The noise charge also funds the accession of Sofia Airport to the International Council of European Airports for Carbon Accreditation at Airports, as well as the maintenance of an integrated system for environmental quality management in the In 2018, Sofia Airport received an accreditation at level two under the ACI EUROPE Programme for reducing greenhouse gas emissions management. In the same period, an update and transition of the integrated quality and environmental management system to the new versions of international standards ISO 9001:2015 and ISO 14001:2015 was carried out. In May 2018 it was certified for compliance by an independent accredited body. In addition, environmental measures related to monitoring the quality of groundwater and surface water, air cleanliness, waste management and others are financed from the charge. For Varna airport for 2015 the revenues from noise charge are 163 thousand. BGN 605, it's $82,000. £66. For 2016 - 156 thousand. - (Laughter) BGN 731. $80,000 is spent. lv. For 2017 revenues.. 165 thousand. lv. against costs 89 thousand. lv. For 2018 the revenue from noise fee is 196 thousand. lv., it costs 93 thousand. lv. Overall, over the period, the revenue for the four years is 654 thousand. BGN 518, it's over 344 thousand. BGN 833. For Burgas airport for 2015 the revenues from noise charge are 293 thousand. BGN 520, spent BGN 491. For 2016 the fee was 304 thousand. 364 BGN, spent, 152 thousand BGN 411. For 2017 "Accommodation of the Kingdom of Denmark on the 962 BGN, spent £832. For 2018, the collected fee is 325 thousand. BGN 518, expenditures - 167 thousand BGN 226. Total 2015 The revenue is estimated at EUR 1 million. Two hundred and 367 BGN, and expenses 616 thousand. BGN 967. For airports Varna and Burgas, the amounts collected are spent to build and maintain monitoring systems at both airports, as well as other projects for environmental activities related to airport obligations. The concessionaire has set aside 740 thousand. lv. in connection with a signed tripartite partnership agreement between the municipality of Burgas, the Road Infrastructure Agency and the projector with preparation, evaluation, implementation of the site "Project," construction of a firewall of a section of road I 9 ", located between the airport of Burgas and the district of Sarafovo." In accordance with the contract for concession signed, the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications received a concession fee of 19.2% of the collected noise fee. For Plovdiv airport for 2015 the fee collected is 8 thousand. 884 BGN, 2016 8,000. 732 BGN, for 2017 6,000. BGN 857 for 2018 "Ten thousand." BGN 437. Total for the period indicated "34 thousand'. 922 lv. Plovdiv airport has not incurred an investment cost for these funds. Dear Mr. Valkov, I'm sure the quickly read figures can't be remembered. Therefore, I am giving you the very answer to the question so that, if you have any further questions, they can be asked. Thank you. [[Presents the response of the MP Ivan Valkov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u59	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u60	Thank you for your extremely comprehensive answer, Mr. Minister. It made it clear that the majority of the funds collected had already been raised over 5 million. $700,000. BGN is spent on depreciation costs on facilities that are already built or are newly built and related to ecology. In this regard and in connection with the tripartite agreement that you have read us, I would like to draw attention to something extremely important, as there is a procedure currently under way to select a contractor of the noise protection wall between the Burgas airport and the Sarafovo district. The commitment of the "Fraport" which you said was for 740 thousand. lv. They have sent a letter at the end of February that they can provide only 123,000 at present. BGN, which would create a problem for the implementation of the first stage of the facility itself. At the same time, it has become clear from your answer that there are 1 million. 200,000 raised funds in the last four years, and around 616 thousand were spent. BGN, which means that there is such an opportunity to give more money. I believe that the authority that monitors the spending of these funds......................................... can check the possibilities in this direction in order to implement this project.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. A hole, dear Minister? You don't want to. The next question to Minister Zhelyazkov is from the MP Krasen Krastev concerning the lack of permanent employee at the post office in the village of Kameno pole, municipality of Roman. You have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u62	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Dear Minister Zhelyazkov, after a meeting with the mayor of the town hall Kameno pole, municipality of Roman, and with the villagers I was informed and informed, the people expressed clear dissatisfaction with the fact that there was no permanent employee at the post office Kameno pole. In this regard, my question to you is: will an employee be appointed at the post office of Kameno on at least a six-hour working day? This will restore the normal rhythm of operation of the station and accordingly the provision of postal services, distribution, receipt of pensions, payment of the water consumed, excess electricity, payment to cable operators and other types of fees by the residents of the largest village in the municipality of Roman, namely Kameno pole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u63	Thank you. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Avramova! Dear Mr. Krastev, for one year at post office 3150 Kameno pole there is a turnover of footage. After leaving an employee, a number of recruitment procedures have been carried out at the post office since the beginning of 2018. The difficulty of finding a post holder remains. Until the appointment of a permanent employment contract of an employee at the same post office.. 3150, Kameno pole, as a temporary measure by the management of Regional Management.......................................................................................................................................................... At present, the post office is served by a posted employee from post office 3265 from Gabare with working hours from Monday to Friday from 9:00. - 1:00 p.m. On 18 March 2019 was held a meeting between the Director of the Department of the Western Region and Mrs. Boteva, Mayor of the village of Kameno pole Mrs. Darina Stefanova, Head of the post office in Vratsa and you. The question of the operation of the post office and the absence of a permanent employee in Kameno pole is discussed. In order to resolve the case, different options have been considered in order to achieve a fair and permanently acceptable solution. Currently there is an interest in a candidate for the position from the village of Drashan, which is 3 km away, which prepares his papers for the start of work. The same after receiving a positive opinion from the Labour Medical Service in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Code and on the grounds of art. 78 of the Regulation on medical expertise and training for work in the company will be appointed on a six-hour working day. In some regions of the country, the Bulgarian Post Office is having difficulty finding qualified employees. In this regard, taking into account the economic and demographic conditions in this particular region, it is particularly important that cooperation and fruitful cooperation with local self-government bodies, for which I thank you for this particular case.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u65	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Krastev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, thank you for the perfect answer. Indeed, in a joint meeting, we had a quick conversation and found a solution. According to the estimates of the Bulgarian Post Office the post office Kameno pole falls into the category to appoint an employee within four hours. The agreement of the management of the Bulgarian Post Office and the respective heads to seek and appoint an employee at least six hours is commendable. I believe that this issue is not so insignificant because it is yet another matter. Before that, I was called by the mayor of Leskovets for such a similar problem. That's where he's determined, too. I really hope with joint action, including with municipal administrations, that there will always be a solution and that people will not be left without postal and other services, including additional agreements with mayors, municipalities. Thanks again for the quick response.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u67	Thank you. Dear Minister, the doppelganger? No. This concludes the questions to Minister Zhelyazkov. Thank you for your participation today in the parliamentary control, dear Minister. We continue with the questions to Minister Petya Avramova. Minister Petya Avramova will answer a question from the National Representative Daniela Daritkova about the lasting strengthening and securing of the landslide on road II-86 in the Smolyan section of Srednogortsi, near the village of Tikale. Here you are, dear Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u68	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, in 2018, after the collapse of huge quantities of rock and earth masses on the main road between Smolyan and Madan Thank you for the quick decision that has been taken to ensure a bypass route, which, however, due to the large slopes, is unusable in winter. I'm glad that after emergency repairs the road was open, though in one lane. The traffic is carried out with traffic lights. For us it is extremely important that the permanent reinforcement and restraint of the landslide on road II-86 in Smolyan, Srednogortsi at the village of Tikale. A commitment was made by the Road Infrastructure Agency and at a political level by the Ministry of Regional Development to award the activities of permanent strengthening in 2019. So far, however, there has been no public procurement for the selection of contractor in construction and construction supervision. In this regard, my question to you is: what activities in the permanent strengthening of the landslide are envisaged in 2019?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u69	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs Daritkova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In connection with the suddenly activated landslide and demolition process affecting the Republican road II-86 Sokolovtsi - Smolyan - Srednogortsi - at km 109+450 by the Road Infrastructure Agency - actions were taken on the award of geological research works and the preparation of a technical project for the necessary emergency events to stabilize the section. In 2018, a contract of 35 thousand was concluded. £760. with VAT with a selected company Geotechnics ABC. Ltd. for carrying out geological research activities. By letter dated 19 July 2018, the company presented to the Agency "Travel Infrastructure" an engineering and geology report, Project for a stabilizing anchor system with frosting and Project for protection of cracks against surface water infiltration. After approval of the projects of the Institute of Roads and Bridges, the anchor system was built. The urgent emergency events for stabilization of the precinct are assigned to the road support company in Smolyan region. The implementation ended at the beginning of September last year. On 15 September 2018, the Republican Road II-86 was launched. According to the Minister's Decree No 260 of 28 November 2018 the amount of 2 million has been allocated. 791 thousand. £664. to finance emergency stabilisation activities on the left side of the section. For the continued strengthening of the second-class road, the preparation of documentation for public procurement under the Public Procurement Act for the selection of a contractor for carrying out design works and construction works, engineering, and for the provision of a consulting service for the site is started under the order of the Law on public procurement for the selection of a contractor for carrying out design works and construction works, of engineering, and for the provision of a consulting service for the site The technical requirements for the award of public procurement for the performance of research, design and construction works, engineering and construction supervision shall be prepared. They are expected to be announced within three months. The value of their execution will not exceed the amount of 3 million. Seven hundred and forty-three thousand. lv. with VAT. The funds are laid down in the Emergency Repairs Programme of the Road Infrastructure Agency for 2019 and the deadline for the design is 40 days and for the construction of the 100.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u71	Thank you, dear Minister. Dr. Daritkova, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u72	Dear Minister, I am pleased and believe that this will bring comfort to the residents of Smolyan region, who are actively using this road artery, because after the deadlines you have set, I believe that we will be able to rely on this road's lasting strengthening by the end of the year. This is very important because everyone knows that Smolyan region is an area of wheels and for us the possibility of using road arteries is vital. They concern not only the possibility of economic development, the development of tourism, but are also vital from the point of view of people's access, on the one hand, to education in the district town of the area that uses this road, on the other hand, and access to emergency medical care. I believe that these deadlines will indeed be met, and with the funding provided by the end of the year, we will have a lasting strengthening of this path, a response and a solution to the problem that has occurred since the fall of land and rock masses.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u73	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. A line? I won't. We continue with the next question to Minister Avramova. He is from the National Representative Kalin Vassilev on the state of Republican roads: main road I-3 Gara Byala Dear Mr. Vassilev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is about the state of Republican roads outside and in the settlements of the municipality of Lukovit, Lovech district, and in particular in the municipality center of Lukovit. Dear Minister, at the insistence of the residents of the municipality of Lukovit, I put to your attention the first major problem related to the state of part of the Republican road I 3 Gara Byala This talks about its intensity, load, security and the need to be in a good operational state to absorb the car flow. Road I-3 is of paramount national and cross-border importance and its repair is extremely urgent. The second part of the Republican road network, which urgently needs major repairs, is road III-306 Lukovit Part of this third-class road in 2013 was renovated under the European project Lot 35 under the Operational Programme The fourth stage, called "Rehabilitation and reconstruction" on the road Lukovit "Knezha" is part of this project of the street "Ivan Vazov" in the regulation of the town of Lukovit with a length of 930 m, which falls within the scope of the above-mentioned Republican road. Due to the high intensity of traffic in this section road III-306 from both light and heavy cars, some of which weighing more than 12 tonnes carrying inerts, road pavement is currently severely destroyed, dangerous and is a prerequisite for safety and traffic and road accidents. The third Republican time, urgently in need of rehabilitation and reconstruction, is III 307 Lukovit This time it is from Lukovit to Dermantsi, to the border with the municipality of Ugurchin has a very high intensity of movement, given that the main part of the commercial supply and communication of the municipality of Lukovit are connected to the district center of Lovech. On the other hand, after the implementation of Stage 1 of the Motorway "Hemus" will also have direct contact with it. Dear Minister, in relation to the above, please reply: first, when is the completion of the Republican road I-3 Gara Byala Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Vassilev. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Vassilev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The budget of the Transport Infrastructure Agency for 2019 is very limited, like previous years, which prevents us from planning repairs for all sections of the Republican road network that are in poor condition. In 2017 the section of road I-3 Pleven In the features of the town of Lukovit in the direction of Pleven with a length of 2.3 km and 2 million were spent for the renovation. 186,000. lv. with VAT. The plans of the Railway Infrastructure Agency were to continue in the section in the direction of Sofia, with a length of about 12 km from km 137 to km 149, including the section through the town of Lukovit, which coincided with the street of Momchičečeč, the street of Lyuben Karavelov and the street of Asen Zlatarov. However, due to the lack of funds, given the investment intentions of the municipality of Lukovit for the replacement of underground communications in the section, the repair activities were postponed. For the site there is a ready technological project from 2017 on expert assessment for the completion of the repair in the 12-km section in the direction of Sofia are needed about 6 million leva. For the overall repair of the section from third-class road III-306 Lukovit "Red Beach" "Chomakovtsi" with a length of 930 m in the features of the municipality of Lukovit according to estimated estimate about 600 thousand are needed. lv. The road division III-307 Lukovit "Dermantsi" "Ugarchin" with a length of 19.2 km on the territory of the municipality of Lukovit is generally in satisfactory condition. Indeed, as you have noted, in poor condition is a 630m stretch in the features of the city of Lukovit due to the renovations of underground communications performed by the municipality that affected the integrity of the pavement. With impaired performance is a part of 650 m long between the villages Todorichene and Dermantsi, on which in 2017 the Institute of Roads and Bridges at the Agency of the Road Infrastructure. According to an estimated estimate for the overall repair of the section of road III-307 with a length of 19.2 km, approximately 10 million are needed. lv. The Road Infrastructure Agency will look for opportunities to secure the necessary funds to repair these sections from both the State budget and through targeted funding. At the same time, the Agency shall endeavour to maintain in good operational condition the roads from the Republican road network in the municipality of Lukovit, according to the resources available and the financial framework of the repair programmes. In order to maintain the current maintenance, a systematic repair of compromised sites on the pavement and other urgent activities of the three Republican roads on the territory of the municipality of Lukovit is being carried out. In 2018 for ongoing repair and maintenance of road I-3, III-306 and III-307 were spent around 47 thousand. BGN, in addition, I would like to stress that in the period 2017 - 2018, considerable funds were invested in the territory of Lovech district for repairs from the state budget of about 12 million. 605 thousand. lv. with VAT. In the process of implementation is Lot 16 Rehabilitation on road II-35 Lovech - Troyan "Kurnare" with a total length of 8.7 km, Lovech district, funded by Operational Programme "Regions in growth" 2014 " 2020" worth 14 million. Nine hundred and thirty-six thousand. lv. with VAT. In 2018, the construction of the highway of Hemus, a section from 78 to 87 km Yablanitsa, was launched with funds from the state budget, worth 66 million. lv. In 2019, construction will start with funds from the state budget of the site road link between road II-35 and road III 357 in the town of Troyan km 0+000 to km 0+154 worth 2 million. 320 thousand. 553 BGN. with VAT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u77	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mr. Vassilev, you have the floor for a line. I won't. We continue with the third question to Minister Avramova. He is from the National Representative Boryana Georgieva and is about a continuing speed limit for the movement of the highway. You have the floor, Mrs. Georgieva, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, in response to my question on 10 December 2018, you informed us that, according to the possibilities of Budget 2019 or with the funding requested, the Road Infrastructure Agency will take action to restore the pavement and operational qualities of the compromised section, and you have clarified that, rather, when calculating the funds for 2019, which will be available to the Road Infrastructure Agency, funds will be provided for in order to be able to repair this section. During your reply, it became clear that the temporary organisation of movement in this section was under the Order of 27 September 2018 of the Road Infrastructure Agency, referred to by the Directorate-General of National Police, and the duration of this order was until 20 December 2018, after which the problem had not been removed and the division continued to be dangerous and threatening the lives of the drivers, it had to be extended until 30 March 2019. This deadline is also running out, but to date, repairs have not started at the precinct. As a result of the ongoing inaction by the Ministry of Transport and the Road Infrastructure Agency, fair criticism by citizens and businesses do not stop. Tol fees are a fact, and the route in this and other sections of the highways in the country are in a miserable state. The citizens of Bulgaria pay to have quality roads and highways, not for the obvious stalling by the responsible institutions. In this regard, I would like to ask you to answer the following questions: what measures have been taken to solve this problem? Is it again foreseen that the order will be extended by how long and how long? Have they been provided for in the 2019 budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency for the repair of this section and to what extent? When are repairs scheduled to begin, what will they be, and how long before they are expected to be completed so that the route can operate again as a highway? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u79	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u80	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Georgieva, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Road Infrastructure Agency is taking into account the need for repair of the highway of Trakia in the section between Chirpan and Stara Zagora and is looking for opportunities to secure the necessary funds. As we have already had the opportunity to announce, the indicative value of the necessary repairs is about 60 million. lv. The experts from the Road Infrastructure Agency consider that before the start of the repair, the technology and scope for its implementation should be very clearly defined because, in addition to repairing the direct route, it is necessary to carry out an urgent repair of the road facilities in this section of the Trakia Motorway, which are in poor condition and are a total of seven. At the same time, the presence of tracks in the active band according to specialists is a sign of serious problems in the road structure, which once again highlights the need for careful assessment of the choice of basic repair technology. We believe that the repair of a 40 km section of the highway is not possible as quickly as it is related to the introduction of a temporary organisation and traffic safety for a longer period. Order No 11-13-1330 of 19 December 2018 introduced a speed limit to 90 km per hour. The order expires on 31 March 2019. It is an undisputed fact that with the introduction of a speed limit in this road section and with the control carried out by road police patrols to the Ministry of Interior, Stara Zagora, the accidents suffered significantly decreased. For this reason, the Regional Road Management of Stara Zagora has proposed that the speed limit on the highway of Trakia. In the section from km 168 to km 208 from 90 km per hour should be maintained and the duration of the order should be extended until 30 September 2019. We are aware that the restrictions introduced face intense discontent on the part of the travelers on the highway of Trakiya. However, at the same time, it should be borne in mind that protecting people's lives and health is of paramount importance to our entire society. The problem was discussed with road safety experts from the Road Infrastructure Agency with regard to the possibilities to limit the permissible maximum speed of movement only in the lane for movement in the two road lanes of the highway "Trakia" along the section from km 168 to km 208, as the condition of the forward lane allows for higher speed traffic on it. The current regulations allow limiting the permissible maximum speed for a separate road lane such as the signal is carried out by a combination of the road sign E 1 At present, there is an organisation in that area in 90 kilometers in all lanes in both directions. Road safety specialists express the opinion that the restriction of the permissible maximum speed of movement for only one lane would make sense in multi-order traffic where there is no restriction on the use of lanes and drivers choose which lane to use themselves. In conclusion, it is pointed out that a speed limitation in only one lane would seriously jeopardise road safety and increase emergency and road traumatism. With regard to the issue of starting repairs in the compromised section, I would like to inform you that, in view of the limited budget of the Agency, the road infrastructure for this year, the priority sites are still being specified. I can assure you that Trakia Motorway is a priority for both the Agency and the Ministry. We will be looking for an opportunity to secure the funding, if not from the established budget of the Office of Road Infrastructure, with the targeted funds from the state budget, so that we can start implementing the activities for the repair of the quoted section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u81	Thank you, dear Minister. With this we ended the answer to the question of the National Representative Boryana Georgieva. We continue with a question from the National Representative Radoslava Chekanska on the implementation of the Operational Programme You have the floor to ask the question, dear Mrs. Chekanska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u82	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! The Operational Programme "Regions in Growth 2014 " 2020" is an integrated operational programme financed by the European Union through the European Fund and the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria and is aimed at achieving growth and employment in the Bulgarian regions. The programme supports reforms in several key sectors related to Bulgaria's sustainable and balanced regional development by 2023 by financing projects in the field of education, health, social policy, regional development and transport accessibility. In this regard, my question to you is: what is the result of the implementation of the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth 2014 - 2020"? How much and at what value are the successfully completed projects under the Programme?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u83	Thank you, dear Mrs. Chekanska. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u84	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Chekanska, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Operational programme "Regions in growth 2014 " 2020" has a total budget of 3 billion. lv. European and national co-financing. The programme is oriented towards the creation of growth and employment in the regions, with special attention being paid to energy efficiency in the support centres in peripheral regions, according to the National Polycentric Development Model, formulated in the National Concept of Space Development 2013. 74 projects worth 68 million have been completed so far under the Programme. $150,000. BGN 410. The results of the implementation of the Programme are as follows. Under Priority Axis 1 "Sustainable integrated urban development" whose main objective is to improve the quality of life and growth in the middle and large cities in Bulgaria, the total undeveloped areas created or rehabilitated in urban areas are 601 thousand. 024 sq. M, and the rehabilitated land is 7.26 hectares. The length of the new or improved public transport lines is 1.93 km. By Priority Axis 2 "Support for energy efficiency in the hubs in the peripheral regions" the renovated buildings are 181 pieces and households who have passed into the above energy consumption class are 1539 pieces. Under Priority Axis 2, a reduction in the annual primary energy consumption of public buildings by 20 419 652 kWh per year was achieved, which is 35,8% of the target of 2023 in the Programme and 316% of the target value of the projects under the axis. In addition, an annual reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of 8324 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent has been achieved, which is 20.6% of the target of 2023 under the Programme and 23,8% of the target of the projects under the axis. Under Priority Axis 3 "Regional Education Infrastructure" 28 educational institutions with the capacity of assisted infrastructure, intended for children's care or education for 14 886 persons, of which representatives of marginalized groups, including Roma, enjoying the modernized educational infrastructure, 1712 persons, have been upgraded. Under Priority Axis 5 "Regional social infrastructure" the supported social infrastructure sites are two with the capacity of the supported infrastructure, intended for child care or education, 90 persons. Under Priority Axis 7 "Regional road infrastructure' aimed at investing in the network of first-class, second-class and third-class roads to improve the connectivity and accessibility of secondary and third-stage nodes in the trans-European freight and passenger transport network, the total length of the reconstructed or upgraded roads along this priority axis is 21,81 km. Under Priority Axis 8 "Technical assistance" aimed at strengthening and enhancing the institutional capacity of the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" and of the beneficiaries under the Programme, the total trained employees of the beneficiaries are 543 pieces. Currently under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth 2014 " 2020 ". 510 projects worth 2,667 billion are under way. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u85	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mrs. Chekanska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u86	Dear Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response to the information you have given. Your response shows that 510 projects worth 2 billion are in progress. The Commission therefore concludes In this regard, I see that you have a great deal of work to do, but I am confident that all the projects that have been launched will be completed successfully, for which I thank you again. Thank you!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u87	Thank you, dear Mrs. Chekanska. The National Representative Teodora Georgieva will ask Minister Avramova a question about the development and approval of the cadastral map and the cadastral registers for the territory of the Student City and the activities of the International Working Group for carrying out a comprehensive analysis of the legal and urban status of the properties in the place of Student City. You have the floor, Mrs. Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u88	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I will ask a question that I have asked many times in recent years. By order of 15 July 2009, issued by the Executive Director of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadaster Agency, the production of a cadastral map and cadastral registers was opened for the territory of the "Studentski" District in Sofia. The Cadastral map was approved by order of 10 July 2012 of the Executive Director of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency on a complaint by the district governor of Sofia-city. The above approval order was withdrawn by the Executive Director of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency for a large part of the territory of the district of Studentski. For 5 years there has been no new project of a cadastral map, which makes it difficult to work and violates the rights of both municipal and regional administration and owners of private terrains. The lack of a cadastral map makes it impossible to complete the detailed planning of the area. In view of the above, I ask you to answer: what is the movement on the cadastral map of the Student City, at what stage is it and will soon be a Cadastral map? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u89	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Georgieva, Order No 110 of 11 May 2015 of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, as amended by orders of 7 June 2016; 17 April 2017; 15 June 2018 and the last No P-153 of 9 October 2018, has been appointed Interdepartmental Working Group to carry out a comprehensive analysis of the legal and urban property status of Students' City (Studentski district, Sofia), described in detail in the State Property Acts No 945 of 9 April 1971; No 1283 of 23 November 1977, and No 1748 of 19 April 1989. In accordance with the decisions of the Interdepartmental Working Group, the Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadaster took the necessary action by order of 15 December 2017 of the Executive Director of the Agency for the establishment of a Cadastral Map and Cadastral Registers for the part of the territory of the area of the Studentsky City, for which an order of 2 October 2012 of the Executive Director of the Geodesy and Cartography and Cadaster was withdrawn from 10 July 2012 by the Executive Director of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency. The Cadastral map of the locality "Student City" was adopted by the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Office of Sofia, with protocols of 4 October 2018 and 16 October 2018. The accepted cadastral map was announced to the interested parties with a publication in the Official Journal of the European Union, issue 92 of 6 November 2018. The objections to the accepted cadastral map were addressed at two meetings by the Commission under art. 47, para. 1 of the Cadastral and Property Register Act. At the meeting held on 5 February 2019 by the representatives of the District Administration of Sofia and the Ministry of Education and Science, a delay was requested for the meeting on 12 February 2019 to be submitted a written opinion by the district governor of Sofia, concerning the State Property Act No 945 of 9 April 1971 and its coverage as a property document in the Cadastral Real Estate Register due to the lack of orders of the district governor to write off the State Property Act Books. The decisions taken by the Commission on the objections submitted are reflected in the minutes. In its application for signature, the protocol was not signed as there was no unanimity on whether it was subject to registration in the Cadastral Register of Real Estate Act of 9 April 1971. Under the Cadastral and Property Register Act, the property, owners and acts from which they draw their rights are established shall be established by registers of plans and maps provided by the owners, the State Property Registers, the Municipal Property Registers, the Registry Services, the Revenue Authority Registers. The Cadastral map and the cadastral register of real estate have a constant and not advisory action. They do not create property rights but register property rights on the basis of available property documents. In the case of several property documents with which different owners claim ownership of the same property on the basis of art. 41, para. 6 of the Cadastral and Property Register Act, Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Office, Sofia, has the obligation to record in the Cadastral Register of Real Estate data for all persons and documents. In this case, there is a duplication of ownership rights. According to the Decision of the Interdepartmental Working Group appointed by order of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, the district governor of Sofia should write off from the act books on state ownership of the properties for which there is reason for this. The Agency, by letter dated 11 March 2019, informed the regional governor of the district of Sofia of the need to take action to write off property from the act books on state ownership in accordance with the decisions of the Interdepartmental Working Group appointed by order of the Prime Minister. Currently, the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Office does not have any data on the execution of write-off actions from the act books on state property, described in State Property Act No 945 of 19 April 1971. Due to the above and due to the failure to sign the Protocol of the Commission under art. 47, para. 1 of the Cadastral and Property Register Act is not possible to continue the approval procedure of the Cadastral Map and Cadastral Registers of the Student City. The Geodesy, Cartography and Cadaster Office is ready immediately after the signing of the minutes by all representatives of the Commission to continue the proceedings for the creation of a cadastral map and cadastral register of the locality. On the basis of the decisions in the minutes, the rightful person by cadastral shall carry out the amendments within 45 days. The amendments made to the cadastral map and the cadastral register shall once again be adopted by the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Office and shall be 30 days after the submission of the materials and data by the legal person in Cadastral. The Executive Director of the Agency shall issue an order for approval of the Cadastral Card and Cadastral Register within 14 days after the expiry of the 30-day period for the adoption of the amendments made as a result of the objections reflected. The order shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union under art. 49, para. 2 of the Law on Cadastral and Property Register. The approved cadastral card and the cadastral register shall not be subject to appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u91	Thank you, dear Minister, for participating in parliamentary control today and for the full answers. This was the last question to Minister Avramova. We are continuing with Mr. Boel Banov, Minister of Culture, who will answer one question from the National Representative Diana Savateva on the establishment of a public register of distributors and media service providers. Dear Mrs. Sawateva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question relates to the change in a law that took place last November. The National Assembly then adopted an amendment and an addition to the Law on the compulsory deposit of printed works and other works, adding to the name of the Law to the announcement of distributors and providers of media services. Thus, for the first time in the framework of the existing before law, a new task was added, which is relevant to the commitments of the Ministry of Culture. It is about setting up an organisation and an appropriate base, if I may say so, so that the public can be informed of the ownership of media service providers or, in other words, of the media from which we receive information every day. For the first time in this case, the scope of the Law was also covered by the electronic media, in particular I am referring to the websites, because, as far as other media are concerned, they are within the scope of another law. My question to you is: what has the Ministry of Culture done so far to create a public register for the publication of the said data? Have the parameters of this register been clarified yet? When will a public procurement be announced? I would like to make it clear that, after all, the deadline for the establishment of the register is well ahead in time, but since there is supposed to be time for the procedures that I have announced, it is appropriate to start the activities of its establishment. My other question, which relates to shorter terms, is: has a regulation already been adopted to announce media service providers? Is a draft declaration to be completed by all suppliers by 30 June approved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u93	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Savateva, in connection with your question, I inform you of the following: with the Law on the compulsory deposit of printed and other works and the announcement of distributors and media service providers, the legislator introduces an obligation for media service providers and distributors of periodic printed works to submit in the Ministry of Culture a model declaration approved by the Minister of Culture by 30 June. In implementing legal changes, the Ministry of Culture has taken action to develop models of declarations under art. Article 7a 7b of the Law. By order of the Minister of Culture, the specimens have been validated and are published on the website of the Ministry of Culture. A draft regulation under art. 7c, para. 2 of the Law and published for public consultation. In view of the legal requirement that the declarations be submitted electronically through the website of the Ministry of Culture, actions are taken to ensure automated management of the declaration process, respectively the creation of an electronic roadmap of the document which illustrates the path of the electronically signed declaration from submission to storage in an archive. In addition to this model, an alternative was developed which allows electronic declarations to be submitted via e-mail to the Ministry of Culture. By 20 February 2019, the electronic declaration system under the quoted law was in test mode. It is currently fully functional. At the start of the system measures shall be taken to ensure the performance of the application and of the stored data. A process is under way to prepare the technical assignment for the establishment of a public electronic register with a view to subsequent procurement under the order of public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u95	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mrs. Sawateva, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, with full awareness that this question and its answer accordingly concerns a very wide range of people, including both journalists and owners of media and users of information as we all are, thank you for shed light on the settlement of this upcoming registration. As far as I understand it, the system is ready purely technically, but the approval of the regulation is pending, which will clear the order in which data will be submitted, i.e. these declarations. I wish, because the purpose of the Law is ultimately to get all of us information about who is behind the relevant media, to have a slightly wider information campaign. I hope that the Ministry provides for this, i.e. the media service providers concerned to be sufficiently informed how to fill in the declarations so that they can be valid, because the Law provides that the draft regulation also states that if the declaration does not contain the necessary props, it will not be considered to be filed. I'm counting on the Ministry to use the remaining time for a slightly wider information campaign. As far as the register is concerned, once the procedure is started, it is expected to be ready within the relevant deadlines. As far as I understand it, a declaration can be issued now, although the deadline for technical readiness I think was April 30th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u97	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. We continue with the next question to Minister Banov. He is once again from the National Representative Diana Savateva and is about the implementation of the provisions of the Directive on audiovisual media services in the Bulgarian legislation. Dear Mrs. Sawateva, you have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u98	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The next question I am going to ask concerns a very broad range of people who are interested in a directive adopted last year. This is about the Audiovisual Media Services Directive. This dossier was taken as a priority for both the Council and the European Parliament. It was actually adopted during the Bulgarian Presidency. The text of Directive 2018/1808 was published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 28 November 2018. The audiovisual media service directive will contribute to updating existing rules for the provision of audiovisual media services. One of the main highlights is that it will ensure a level playing field between all providers of such services, because it is not only radio and television, but also for other platforms that are often used for audiovisual services, but so far such a level playing field has obviously been a deficit. Apart from equal conditions, the other very important emphasis is the protection of minors and all consumers from violent and harmful content, which is extremely important, especially in recent months and years. In this context, my question to you is: what measures has the Ministry of Culture taken as an institution responsible for implementing the provisions of the Audiovisual Services Directive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u99	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Savateva, amendments to the Audiovisual Media Services Directive were adopted during the Bulgarian Presidency. The directive reflects the current realities in the digital environment and is a sufficiently sustainable tool to address future challenges in the development of new technologies and innovations that have an impact on the audiovisual sector. It provides a level playing field between the traditional broadcasting sector and the new services, promotes innovation and promotion of European audiovisual content and ensures better protection for viewers. The file was taken as a priority in a joint declaration by the Council of the European Union, the European Commission and the European Parliament for 2018. 2019 and its finalisation was one of the great successes for the Bulgarian Presidency. As soon as the directive was published in the Official Journal of the European Union, the Ministry of Culture took the necessary measures to establish an interdepartmental working group to transpose the provisions of the Directive. By letters in the working group are invited to participate all departments and institutions relevant to the subject matter, as well as representative organizations of stakeholders. Responses to all invitation letters were received in the Ministry, which designated representatives of the relevant departments, institutions and organizations, and by order of the Minister of Culture the working group was formed. The group will have the task of preparing relevant legislative changes and developing a conceptual document that will be available on the website of the Ministry of Culture. Since we are very aware of the importance of this directive, as you can see, we are looking forward to not waiting for deadlines to transpose it into our legislation, because it is truly key. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u101	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u102	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, you have anticipated one of the supplementary questions that I am going to ask, and it is precisely in connection with the creation of a working group to include representatives of the Parliamentary Committee on Culture and Media. Indeed, the deadline seems long until autumn 2020, but the work on transposition of this directive is also very much. I express my willingness to have representatives of the Commission actively involved in the work of the working group, because practice shows that it is there that issues that are debatable find the best solution. One supplementary question I have: do you think there is a need to update the administrative and technological resources in order to successfully transpose the directive that we are commenting on and do any additional financial resources need? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u103	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. Dear Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Savateva, I cannot comment on the necessary additional financial resources at this time. After all, everything will result from the work of the working group and the hypothesis of transposition. I think that the key is not in the financial resource, but in emergency transposition measures, because this directive, hypothetically, may solve huge inequalities in the market, and in many ways. We have invited the Commission, including the Commission, to open this group. All have responded, but in view of the importance and additional members can participate. Anyone with an attitude can get involved. The public debate will be serious and expert. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-22.u105	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for your participation in parliamentary control today. That's where we end up. The next regular plenary session of 27 March 2019 of 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
