ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose to include the following additional point in the Weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly: Projects for Changes to Permanent Committees, Importer: Daniela Daritkova on 17 July 2019, which I propose to include as a point. 3 for today's plenary session. Please, voting mode. Vote 174 MPs: for 167, against none, abstentioned 7. The motion is accepted. Mr. Simeonov, come in for a statement on behalf of the group of the United Patriarchs.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today it is 182 years since the birth of the greatest Bulgarian Vassil Ivanov Kunchev. I want to congratulate all of you, all of Bulgaria on this great day! I would like to call on you to bow our head before the case of Vasil Levski, who made a revolutionary change in the thinking of the 19th century people, changing the strategy of the Dutch resistance and the spontaneous individual struggle against the slaves of Bulgaria and creating a committee after a committee in the villages and cities of Bulgaria, set the foundation for the organized revolutionary movement in Bulgaria. On this basis it was carried out, several years after his death, the large-scale activity of the organization and implementation of the April Uprising, which caused the Russian-Turkish Liberation War and brought the freedom of Bulgaria. Thanks to this great Bulgarian, we all have the incredible happiness to have our own country of Bulgaria, to call ourselves Bulgarians and to speak in Bulgarian. Unfortunately, this year the Holy Synod in writing refused to canonize the greatest Bulgarian for a saint. Nevertheless, I think that in the hearts of each of us the biggest Bulgarian saint is Vasil Levski. Bow to his memory! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Bow to the memory of the heroes! We continue with the first item of today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CONCESSIONS. The Council of Ministers adopted on 24 June 2019 on the first vote on 5 July 2019. The report will introduce us to Mrs. Anna Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I present to your attention a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions, No 902-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 June 2019, adopted at the first vote on 5 July 2019. The Act for the Amendment and Supplement to the Law for the Contracting Parties is amended as follows: In principle, the Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of the law: the Law for Supplements to the Law on Contracts.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u5	Statements? Mr. Mitev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the House, Dear Minister! The problems in this law begin with the title. You yourselves heard a moment ago: the importers, in this case the Ministry of Tourism, were unable to determine at the outset what the scope of the Law was and what its subject matter was and had a Legal Commission edit it and specify that the Law was not for amendment and supplement, but for supplementing the Law on concessions. More than that. In fact, if you look at the contents of the following paragraphs, you will see that this is not even the Law on Supplement to the Law on concessions, but in fact the Law on Supplement to the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, where a new chapter is created which regulates the process of concessionation of sea beaches. So, even in this sense, purely systematically, we should have an amendment and an addition to the Black Sea Coast Construction Act and not to concessions. The withdrawal of the concessionation of sea beaches is due to the introduction of the new rules of the Black Sea Coast Construction Act and it is unacceptable to create a whole section consisting of several chapters, as you will see a little later in the Transitional and Final Provisions, which should be a major part of the subject matter of this law. In fact, this law fully satisfies what the Minister of Tourism has been fighting for since last term, when the Law on concessions was adopted and was subsequently vetoed, within this term it was adopted. In both cases, the Law on concessions covered the cases of concessionation on sea beaches. This was the opinion of the economic directorate of the Council of Ministers, which I do not know to have been changed so far that the Black Sea beaches should be within the scope of the Law on concessions, that they do not have the nature of concessions for extraction of minerals or mineral waters, so that an exception would be made for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u7	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Any lines to Mr. Mitev's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Shopov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u8	This is NFSB's opinion. Dear colleagues, the dispute is somewhat doctrinal, but in my opinion the systematic place of this matter is to settle precisely in the Law on concessions. This was also the mistake so far that matter had its legal regulation in the Black Sea Coast Act. A brand new model of beach management is being created. It does not matter that it concerns beaches, not as mentioned to fossils or any other wealth, or property of the state. It is to state property, to concessionation and quite natural, quite logical and quite right that this matter should be settled in the Law on concessions. To draw out in front of parentheses, as is done in the Law on concessions, and from now on to end this year-long, decade-long wandering on these issues, because everything is further arranged in the way in which it is normal and logical to do so in the Law on concessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Are there any lines to Mr. Shopov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Colleagues, we are going to vote on the amendment of the name of the Law, supported by the Commission. Vote 168 MPs: 149, against 5, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u10	Importer text under § 1. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article The sea beach concession shall be awarded, implemented and supervised under the terms and conditions of the Black Sea Coast Construction Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u11	Statements? Mr. Simeonov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u12	Madam President, honourable Members! This paragraph contains the essence of the action proposed to vote on the whole of the law. The transfer of the legal regulation of the concessionation of the beaches from the Law on concessions to the Law on the Black Sea Coast allows for this concession to be granted only by the Ministry of Tourism. As they say: both the knife and the bread will be in the hands of the minister. One of the reasons put forward as a reason to transfer this rule of law to the Black Sea Coast Law from the concession law to the Black Sea Coast is that the beaches cannot be attributed to one by one, according to importers, a aggravated regime, such as the concession of an airport. However, it would be good for all of you to know that in particular this Law on concessions, which of all specialists is recognised as a pretty good legal document, in line with European law, under the same law are small dams, fishermen and any other small objects without any claim that this will be aggravating and delaying the procedure. In the same mode are given the bus lines.. I gave this example with the bus line Burgas. Sozopol; Sozopol Burgas. So it can pass under this aggravated regime of the Law on concessions, but the beach of Sozopol cannot pass and it must have a special regime in which both the knife and the bread are in the Ministry of Tourism. What are the serious reasons of the importers from the Ministry of Tourism during the Council of Ministers to ask for a change of this law? The first and serious reason is that the organized and pawned control in the texts of the Law on concessions is completely abolished. For example, art. 4 of the Law on concessions provides for publicity and transparency. At present, however, concessions are granted under the Black Sea Coast Act by the Ministry of Tourism only after the signing of a privacy declaration. Each participant must sign a confidentiality statement. It may not provide any information regarding the competition documentation or any other related to the concessionation of the particular beach, contrary to the Law on concessions, which requires publicity and transparency. 49, para. 2 ensures the publication of the documentation. There is no such requirement under the Black Sea Coast Act. There won't be any now that you're voting on this law. In addition, the entire activity from the time the competition takes place until the end of the concession, the whole activity is controlled by the Advisory Council on concessions, which may issue checks to the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control. There will be no such thing in the new order that you will vote on. There will be no control of the Ministry of Finance, which can give instructions and send an observer to the Tender Commission and that is now out of the question by voting on it. The privatization agency and post-privatization control will also not have the right to carry out independent control. The Agency for State Financial Inspection and the Court of Auditors will also not be able to control because these texts, which are laid down in the current law, are dropped. From now on, all that follows from such a vote on the Law on concessions is concreteization of the current practice of giving the beaches to those close to the authority. If you want us to be witnesses and accomplices in the crime of ruining Bulgarian tourism next year, and not only next year, but the following year, you can safely vote for this law, but I do not recommend it to you. We will vote against. I would like to remind you that this is the third attempt to transfer the concessionation of the beaches from the Law on concessions to the Black Sea Coast Act. The first was when the Law on concessions was passed here in this Chamber, and you rejected it. The second time was December last year, again with an unhappy experience, and now determined with the highest-level support of this law to be passed. Once again, with the vote on the submitted bill that we are looking at in this House today, you will become accomplices in the eradication of Bulgarian tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the version of § 1 of the Commission Report. They voted 152 MPs: for 93, against 18, abstention 41. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u14	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 2 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u15	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 2. They voted 142 MPs: 95, against 12, abstention 35. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u16	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... (1) The activities of granting concessions for the sea beach, for which a decision of the Council of Ministers on the repealed art. 8d, para. 1 of the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast is completed in accordance with the repealed Chapter 2 of the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast. (2) Contracts concluded on the basis of the activities under para. 1, irrespective of the date on which they are concluded, they shall remain effective and shall be fulfilled in accordance with the conditions agreed therein. (3) The provisions of Chapter 2 of the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast concerning the modification, termination and duration of a concession contract shall apply to the contracts under para. 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u17	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I put to the vote the name of the division supported by the Commission to create a new § 2 and the supported text of the importer for § 3. They voted 164 MPs: 102, against 15, abstention 47. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u18	According to § 4 there is a proposal from the MPs Alexander Ivanov, Alexander Nenkov and Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Anna Alexandrova under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) the first sentence of paragraph 1 shall be amended as follows: the sea beaches or parts thereof with their aquatory are managed and maintained by the award of a sea beach concession under the terms and conditions of this law; (b) in para. The fifth sentence is created: The order of the Minister of Tourism to tender for renting on a sea beach is an individual administrative act and is subject to prior implementation under the terms and conditions of the Administrative Procedure Code. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Minister of Tourism: 1. carry out preparatory actions for the award of concessions for sea beaches under the terms and conditions of this law; 2. submit proposals to the Council of Ministers for the award of concessions for sea beaches; 3. organise the procedures for determining the concessionaire; 4. conclude concession contracts; 5. conduct procedures for renting on sea beaches and conclude contracts; 6. organise the control of the fulfilment of the obligations of the concession contracts concluded and the rental contracts; 7. represent the State in cases arising in connection with disputes concerning concluded concession contracts, respectively under rental contracts, on sea beaches. (b) in paragraph 2, the second sentence is deleted; 3. A new Chapter 2 is being created with new art. 8a "8p" and art. 8p: ..Chapter 2................................................................ Granting of a concession for a sea beach Art. 8a. (1) A sea beach concession shall be awarded under the terms and conditions of this Law by conducting an open procedure for the designation of concessionaire. (2) The open procedure shall be carried out at one stage in which the participant submits both an application and an offer. The open procedure does not include negotiation. (3) The powers of a concession within the meaning of this law shall be exercised by the Council of Ministers. (4) The activities of awarding the concession under para. 1 shall include: 1. the preparatory actions.. award and preparation of justification of the concession; 2. carrying out a concession award procedure; 3. conclusion of a concession contract. (5) Preparatory actions shall begin in coordination with the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Culture and the State Agency of National Security. Within 14 days, the relevant office shall express an opinion on the existence or absence of a danger to the national security and defence of the country, on the life and health of citizens, on the environment, on protected areas, zones and objects and on public order. In the event of a danger, the opinion shall contain recommendations on the legality of the risk resolution and, in case it cannot be removed, no concession shall be awarded. Where the head of the department concerned does not deliver an opinion within the specified time limit, it shall be deemed that there is no danger. (6) The procedure for awarding a concession for a sea beach shall include actions on: 1. adoption of a decision to open a concession award procedure; 2. carrying out a procedure for determining the concessionaire; 3. adoption of a decision determining the concessionaire. (7) The term of the concession shall start from the day of the entry into force of the concession contract and shall not be continued unless such possibility is provided for in the concession contract and the extension shall not exceed the total permissible period referred to in art. 7, para. 1. (8) In the case of concession for sea beach, no payments by the concession shall be foreseen. Art. 8b. (1) The object of concession awarded under this law shall be the sea beaches with their aquatory adjacent to them. (2) The object of concession may also include accessories specified in the decision under art. 8e. Art. 8c. (1) The concession holder shall be the person to whom the concession is awarded through the conclusion of the concession contract. (2) The concession shall be awarded to the participant designated as concessionaire by the decision under art. 8 m, para. 2. (3) Where the participant designated as a concessionaire is a legal person or a union which is not a trader, the concession shall be awarded to a newly established trading company in which the legal person is the sole owner of the capital, respectively the participants in the merger shall have all the capital in the proportion of their merger contract. Where the participant designated as concessionaire is a trader, the concession contract may be concluded with a newly established trading company in which the participant holds all the capital, if this is provided for in the concession documents. (4) Where the participant designated as concessionaire is a natural person, the concession shall be awarded to a newly established trading company in which the participant is the sole owner of the capital or to a newly registered sole trader. (5) In the cases under para. 3 and 4 the person entering into the concession contract is bound by the offer of the participant designated as concessionaire. Art. Eight years. (1) The Minister of Tourism shall ensure the preparation of a justification of the concession and submit to the Council of Ministers a proposal for the award of a concession for a sea beach. (2) The Minister of Tourism or an official authorised by him shall order the preparation of a justification of the concession for the sea beach to experts from the Ministry of Tourism and/or to external consultants. (3) The order under para. 2 contains: 1. a period for the preparation of the justification of the concession, which may not be longer than one month; 2. the experts and/or external consultants entrusted with the preparation of the justification; 3. maximum amount of the means to produce the justification to be spent on the established costs of concession activities for the relevant year. (4) The justification of the concession for the sea beach shall contain: 1. subject of the object of the concession and, where applicable, the accessories to the site; 2. objectives and duration of the concession; 3. estimated value determined according to art. 28 and 29 of the Law on concessions; 4. a legal basis for the award of the concession; 5. basic technical and other characteristics of the object of the concession, including a description of its accessories; 6. a description of the services and activities that may be carried out with the object of the concession and the conditions for their performance; 7. analysis of the effectiveness of the concession in terms of the concession and the financial and economic aspects of the concession; 8. other features of the object of the concession; 9. conclusions and recommendations; 10. Annexes on the basis of which the justification has been drawn up. Art. 8e. (1) The decision of the Council of Ministers to open a concession procedure for sea beach shall contain: 1. the object and object of the concession; 2. the accessories.. where they are included in the site of the concession; 3. the maximum duration of the concession; 4. the conditions for the implementation of the concession; 5. the fundamental rights and obligations of the concession contract; 6. the conditions and/or prohibitions for the lease of the concession and the award of activities for its operation to subcontractors; 7. the type and amount of guarantees to fulfil the obligations under the concession contract and/or other collateral; 8. the conditions and form for payment of the concession fee, including: (a) the amount of minimum annual concession fee for the duration of the concession; (b) the order of payment of the concession fee; 9. the requirements relating to the national security and defence of the country, if any; 10. the conditions for the protection of the environment, human health and protected areas, zones and sites; 11. other requirements related to the nature of the concession; [[Noise, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u19	Colleagues, a little quieter in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u20	..12. the criteria for assessing tenders and their relative weight; 13. the amount and method of payment of the guarantee for participation in the concession award procedure; 14. empowering the Minister of Tourism to organise and conduct the concession procedure on the sea beach; 15. requirements for the professional or technical abilities and/or the financial and economic situation of the participants relating to the specifics of the subject matter and object of the concession. (2) The decision under para. 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and may be appealed within 10 days of its promulgation under Chapter 6 of the Law on concessions. (3) Within 14 days of the entry into force of the decision under para. 1 shall be sent by the official designated by the Minister of Tourism for entry into the National concession register. Art. 8f. (1) The concessionaire on a sea beach shall be determined by an open procedure under art. 8a, para. 2. (2) Any natural or legal person or association of such persons may participate in the procedure. (3) In the event of a reason for exclusion, the participant shall be removed from the procedure for determining the concessionaire. (4) The grounds for exclusion shall be: 1. an entry into force of a sentence whereby the participant or a member of his managing authority or supervisory authority, or a person having the power to represent, to take decisions or to exercise control within those bodies, is convicted of a criminal offence under art. 108a, 159a " 159a," 192a, art. 212, para. Art. 3, Art. 248a, 253, 253a, 254b, 301 2. entered into force a judicial or administrative act establishing that the participant has not fulfilled obligations relating to the payment of taxes or to compulsory social contributions within the meaning of art. 162, para. 2, p. 1 of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code and their interest in the Republic of Bulgaria, or similar obligations under the law of the State in which the participant is established; 3. an administrative or judicial act which prohibits the participant from participating in procedures for the award of public contracts or concessions under the law of the State in which the participant is established; 4. a material failure by the participant to comply with an obligation under a concession contract, a contract for a sea beach or a contract for public procurement which has led to the termination of the contract under the law of the State in which the participant is established; 5. registration of the participant or associated persons in a jurisdiction with preferential tax regime within the meaning of § 1, item 5. 64 of the additional provisions of the Corporate Income Tax Act; 6. declared bankruptcy or liquidation or open insolvency proceedings of the participant or there is a similar procedure under the law of the State in which it is established. (5) The grounds for exclusion shall also be any of the following, established in the course of the procedure for the determination of concessionaire and certified with due evidence: 1. existence of a conflict of interest which cannot be overcome by removing the person for whom there is a conflict of interest; 2. an attempt by the participant to exercise an unauthorised influence over the decision-making process of the concession, to obtain confidential information which may give it an unjustified advantage in the procedure for determining the concessionaire, or to provide false, incomplete or misleading information which may affect the decisions to remove the concessionaire, to select or to designate the concessionaire; 3. failure by the participant of information necessary for the verification of absence on grounds of exclusion or the fulfilment of the requirements concerning professional or technical capabilities and/or financial and economic condition defined by the concession; 4. has not provided all the information required by the participants in the concession award procedure or the information provided by them is incorrect or incomplete. (6) The grounds for exclusion under para. 4 shall not apply where: 1. in cases of t. 1 the participant has been rehabilitated as well as when they have expired or until the procedure for determining the concession holder has been completed will expire 5 years after the application of the imposed penalty and the participant has provided evidence that he has paid the compensation due for the damage resulting from the offence; 2. in cases of t. 2: (a) have expired or will expire 5 years after the entry into force of the act concerned and the participant has provided evidence that he has fulfilled the obligations, including interest or fines charged, or (b) the period referred to in point (d) is not over, but the participant has provided evidence that: (aa) has fulfilled his obligations by paying, or that a deferral, deferral or security has been allowed, including accrued interest or fines; or (bb) is informed of the exact amount of the obligations due following the infringement at a time when it was unable to take a measure under the letter................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 3. in cases of t. 3 has expired the period for which exclusion is imposed; 4. in cases of ct 4 the participant has provided evidence that it has paid the compensation due, including the damage resulting from the infringement concerned; 5. in the case of t. 5 The participant has provided evidence that there is one of the circumstances under art. 4 of the Law on Economic and Financial Relations with companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime, related persons and their actual owners. (7) The circumstances of para. 4 and 5 shall be certified with documents and declarations. (8) The participant whose application by tender is ranked first shall be designated as concessionaire. Art. 8g. (1) The Prime Minister within 7 days of the entry into force of the decision under art. 8e appoints a commission for the organisation and conduct of the open procedure, hereinafter referred to as the Committee. The Commission shall be composed of five members, including a Chair and a Vice-President. (2) The chairman of the commission shall be the Minister of Tourism or an official of the Ministry of Tourism and shall include representatives of the Ministry of Tourism and one representative of the specialized administration of the Council of Ministers. (3) The Prime Minister may make changes to the composition of the committee in the event of death, prolonged illness, termination of the service, conflict of interest or any other objective reason leading to the failure of a member to carry out his or her duties and at his or her request for exemption. (4) A member of the committee shall not be a person: 1. for which there is a conflict of interest; 2. which is a related person to a participant in the procedure and where the same is a legal person and a member of its management or control body. (5) The members of the committee shall be obliged within three days of: 1. obtaining the order to appoint the Commission to submit a declaration of absence of conflict of interest; 2. the knowledge of the fact that a related person is involved in the procedure to submit a request for exemption from the Commission. (6) The President, the Vice-President and the members of the Committee shall be obliged to keep the secret of the information provided to them in connection with the conduct of the procedure, for which they shall complete a declaration upon their appointment. (7) The Commission shall meet when more than half of its members are present. (8) The decisions of the committee shall be taken by a majority of more than half of its members present. Art. 8h. (1) The Chair of the Commission shall convene a meeting within 7 days of its appointment. (2) At its first meeting, the Commission shall: 1. determine the date, place and time of conduct of the open procedure and the date by which applications for participation in the procedure are accepted and the time limit for submission of tenders may not be longer than 30 days; 2. approve the documentation of the concession and determine the terms and conditions of its publication on the website of the Ministry of Tourism; 3. approve a model of the declaration for the protection of the secret of the information contained in the documentation of the concession; 4. The Commission may, if necessary, attract experts as well as staff of the Ministry of Tourism to assist its activities, subject to the requirements for the protection of the secret of information. (3) Minutes shall be kept for the meetings of the committee. (4) The President, the Vice-President, the members of the Commission, the experts and the employees of para. 2, p. 4 are obliged to keep the secret of the information contained in the proposals, not to export the materials for the procedure outside the designated meeting place of the committee and not to give statements to the mass media prior to the publication in the Official Journal. Art. 8th. (1) Where within the time limit set by art. 8z, para. 2, p. 1 did not apply for an offer, the Commission is entitled, by decision, to extend the deadline for their submission to 15 days from the date of publication of the website of the Ministry of Tourism of the Communication for the new period. (2) The open procedure shall also be carried out when there is only one participant. (3) The open procedure shall not be carried out if no persons have claimed participation. Art. 8k. (1) The documentation of the concession for sea beach shall be drawn up in accordance with the decision under art. 8e and contains: 1. the object and object of the concession and the basic technical and other characteristics of the concession site, including a description of its accessories; 2. documents certifying ownership and/or individualising the site of the concession, where applicable; 3. a description of the services and activities that may be carried out with the object of the concession and the conditions for their performance; 4. conditions for participation; 5. requirements concerning the content of the developments under the terms of the procedure; 6. assessment criteria as well as the methodology for evaluation of tenders 7. a description of the organisation of the procedure; 8. templates of the application and its annexes, as well as of the proposals under the evaluation criteria; 9. the information concerning the date, place and time of the open procedure and the opening of tenders and the date by which applications for participation in the procedure are accepted; 10. draft concession contract and review clauses, where provided; 11. the amount of the guarantee for participation in the procedure and the manner of its payment in accordance with the decision under art. 8e; 12. other requirements for its participants the content of the application and the tender. (2) The documentation shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Tourism under art. 8z, para. 2, p. 2. Art. 8L. (1) The participants in the procedure shall submit within the time limit laid down by the Commission an envelope containing the application with the annexes and documents thereto and the tender in a separate envelope in accordance with the conditions of the procedure. Applications submitted with tenders shall be entered in the Ministry of Tourism and entered in a register on the order of submission. (2) A declaration shall be attached to their bid indicating which part of the information contained in the tender is a commercial secret. (3) When concluding the concession contract, the concession holder appointed as concessionaire shall be bound by the content of the tender submitted. (4) Supplements and amendments to applications already submitted by tenders shall not be allowed. Applications for tenders submitted after the deadline laid down by the committee shall not be accepted and shall not be considered. (5) In the announced day and time for the conduct of the procedure, the Committee shall open the envelopes with the application for participation under the order of their entry in the register under para. 1 and verify that the requirements of the concession documents are met. (6) On the day under para. 5 at a closed meeting the committee shall open the envelopes of the tenders of the participants whose applications are admitted to participate and shall evaluate and rank the tenders, subject to the assessment criteria laid down in the decision under art. 8e, and the concession documents. (7) By way of exception, in the case of more proposals or in the case of more complexity and/or volume of tenders, the Chair of the Commission shall set a period of up to 7 days to familiarise the committee with all tenders. Art. Eight meters. (1) The Commission shall draw up a report, draft decision of the Council of Ministers on the designation of concessionaire and a protocol on the results of the open procedure within three days of its completion. (2) The Council of Ministers shall adopt a decision on the designation of the applicant, which shall be promulgated in the Official Journal. The decision empowers the Minister of Tourism to conclude a concession contract on behalf of the concession holder with the successful participant, to organise control over the implementation of the concession contract, as well as to bring claims to the concession holder in judicial order and to represent the State in cases relating to the implementation of the concession contract. (3) The decision under para. 2 shall be subject to appeal concerning its legality under Chapter Six of the Law on concessions within 10 days of its promulgation in the Official Journal. (4) The rules of Section XI of Chapter Three shall apply to the completion and termination of the procedure for the designation of concessionaire, with the exception of art. Art. 116, Art. 117, para. 2 and 3, and Chapter Six of the Law on concessions. The reasoned decision of the Council of Ministers to terminate the procedure for the designation of concessionaire may be appealed under Chapter 6 of the Law on concessions. Art. 8n. For outstanding issues related to the strategic development and planning of concessions for sea beach, the financing of the activity and the National concession register, the Law on concessions shall apply. Art. Eight o'clock. (1) The Minister of Tourism and the designated concession participant shall enter into a concession contract within one month of the entry into force of the decision under art. 8 m, para. 2. Prior to the conclusion of the concession contract, the participant designated as concessionaire shall submit to the concession holder evidence certifying the facts and circumstances declared by the application on the grounds for exclusion under art. 8f, para. 4 t. 1, 2 and 6. The concession shall not require the submission of evidence by sentence two where the information is available through an electronic public free register. (2) In the event of refusal to conclude the contract, the concession holder shall lose the guarantee of participation in the procedure. (3) Where, until the expiry of the concession contract period, the participant appointed as concessionaire shall not enter into a concession contract or present the evidence under para. 1, the concession may, by decision, determine for the concession holder the second-placed participant. The decision may lay down a condition for improving the proposals on the criteria for evaluation of tenders. (4) Where a condition is set for improving the proposals under the evaluation criteria, negotiations shall be held. A concession contract may not be concluded with the second-place concession holder when negotiations do not agree on the improvement of the proposals under the evaluation criteria made by the participant. Art. 8p. (1) The concession contract shall be concluded in accordance with the offer of the participant designated as the concession holder and, when concluded with the second-placed participant, in accordance with the offer of the participant or the results achieved in the negotiations. (2) The concession contract shall be concluded in writing and shall contain: 1. the parties to the contract, details of the commercial and other registrations of the concessionaire and the persons representing it; 2. subject matter and value of the concession; 3. the requirements of the subject-matter of the concession; 4. description, characteristics and indicators of the object of the concession and its accessories, where applicable; 5. the date of entry into force of the contract, the ex ante conditions, where any, the specific duration of the concession, as well as the total duration of all eligible extensions provided for by a review clause, where any; 6. the terms, arrangements and time limits for the transmission of the object of the concession at the beginning and end of the concession, as well as the early termination of the concession contract; 7. the conditions for carrying out the concession and the burdens, where available; 8. the distribution of risks between the concessionaire and the concession; 9. the rights and obligations of the Parties, including the conditions and time limits for their implementation; 10. the amount, timing and order of payment of the concession fee; 11. indexing clause, where such provision is made, containing the terms and arrangements for updating the initial value of the concession and/or concession remuneration; 12. the type, size, timing and means of providing guarantees and collateral for the performance of the obligations under the contract; 13. the applicable obligations relating to the national security and defence of the country, to the life and health of citizens, to the environment, to protected areas, zones and sites and to public order, where applicable; 14. the applicable insurance obligations of the concession site; 15. the conditions and arrangements for financing the removal of environmental damage; 16. the terms and conditions for carrying out the reporting and control of the fulfilment of the obligations of the concessionaire, including the implementation of the financial and economic model; 17. the responsibilities for non-compliance with the obligations of the contract; 18. the arrangements, arrangements and time limits for the exchange of information between the Parties, including by electronic means, and for carrying out the monitoring and control of the performance of the contract; 19. the conditions and arrangements for resolving disputes between the Parties; 20. the review clauses, where provided for, as well as the grounds, order and effect of early termination of the contract; 21. the requirements concerning the condition in which the object of the concession is passed on to the concession after the expiry of the concession period; 22. the applicable law; 23. Other, depending on the applicable provisions of the legislation in force. (3) Where applicable, the concession contract shall also include the proportion of the concession and the types of concession activities to be performed by subcontractors for each of the subcontractors referred to in the application or tender. (4) An integral part of the concession contract shall be the tender of the participant appointed as concessionaire. Art. 8p. (1) Within one month of the entry into force of the concession contract, an official appointed by the Minister of Tourism shall send by electronic means a concession notice for publication in the National concession register. (2) The concession award notice shall be published in an electronic form and shall contain the results of the concession award procedure carried out, including: 1. consistency; 2. estimated value and value of the concession; 3. the specific duration of the concession; 4. conditions for the entry into force of the concession contract; 5. information on the concessionaire concerning: (a) the name, respectively the name; (b) the form of participation (c) persons representing the economic operator according to the register in which he is entered, if there is such a register; (d) the activities referred to in the application or tender to be carried out by subcontractors; 6. the criteria for awarding the concession; 7. other specified in the electronic form. (3) On the day of dispatch for the publication of the notice of concession awarded by the Minister of Tourism, an official shall open in the National concession register a concession account and publish in it the concession contract. In the concessional contract published in the National Registry, the information protected by law, the information representing commercial secrecy, as well as the information identified as confidential, shall be deleted. 4. Chapter 2 is created with art. 8with 8sh: ? Chapter two??? Implementation of the concession contract. It's a sub-contract. Amendment and termination of a concession contract Art. 8c. (1) For the implementation of the concession contract, the provisions of Chapter IV of Section II shall apply, with the exception of art. 130 and 132 of the Law on concessions. (2) For the period of execution of the concession contract, the occurrence on grounds of exclusion shall not be permitted for both the concessionaire and the members of its management or supervisory body. The concessioner shall inform the concession holder of the occurrence on the grounds of exclusion within 30 days of the occurrence of the grounds for exclusion or of the receipt of information on the occurrence by a third party. (3) In the notification under para. 2 The concession holder shall specify the measures to be taken to address the consequences and to effectively prevent future cases of unlawful conduct and the time limit for taking the measures. The measures may be personnel and organisational, such as: breaking any links with persons or organisations involved in irregular events; measures for personnel reorganization; implementation of reporting and control systems; establishment of an internal audit structure to monitor compliance, as well as adoption of internal rules for seeking liability and compensation. Art. 8th. (1) By way of the concession contract, the concessionaire shall assign the performance of specific activities from the subject-matter of the concession. (2) Sub-contract may be concluded only with a person meeting the professional and technical requirements of the activity carried out. (3) The concessioner shall be responsible jointly with the sub-contractor for the implementation of the activities entrusted with the sub-contract. Art. 8y. The concessionaire shall be obliged to provide the concession contract to the concession holder within 10 working days of the conclusion, as well as information on the sub-contractor including: 1. the name, respectively the name; 2. contact details, including e-mail address; 3. the persons who represent the sub-contractor according to the register in which he is entered, if there is such register; 4. evidence of professional and technical requirements according to the activity carried out. Art. 8f. (1) In the event of a subsequent threat to the national security and defence of the country, to the life and health of citizens, to the environment, to protected areas, zones and sites and to public order, the country under the concession contract which it has learned of this shall immediately inform the other Party. (2) When the existence of a circumstance under para. 1 has been found by a competent authority, it shall immediately inform the concession. (3) Upon the occurrence of a circumstance under para. 1 The concession contract shall be amended if any of the grounds under art. 8x, or terminated. Art. 8x. (1) The concession contract may be amended only in the cases specified by this law. (2) The modification of the concession contract shall not exempt the concessionaire from the operational risk assumed. (3) The concession contract may be amended where: 1. a review clause as defined in the concession documents provides for the possibility of amendments, regardless of their value, or 2. the value of the amendment shall be less than 10 per cent of the value of the concession and shall not lead to an amendment of the overall nature of the concession; or 3. the change, regardless of its value, is not material within the meaning of art. 137, para. 5 of the Law on concessions. (4) Where the concession contract is re-changed on the basis of para. 3, p. 2, the threshold of 10 per cent of the value of the concession shall be calculated in relation to the sum of the initial value of the concession and the value of the previous amendments, irrespective of their basis. (5) The review clause provided for in the concession documents shall contain an option or option to change the value of the concession or its duration. The review clause clearly, precisely and unambiguously defines the scope and nature of the options and amendments envisaged without allowing for the change of the subject-matter of the concession. (6) Where, after the conclusion of the concession contract, a circumstance arises which the concession could not have foreseen when the concession was awarded and which requires a modification of the concession contract, the contract may be amended if this does not lead to a change of the overall nature of the concession, to an increase of the initial value of the concession by more than 50 percent and to an extension of the concession period by more than one third of the specified term. (7) The increase to 50 percent by para. 6 is calculated in relation to the initial value of the concession without accumulation of the values of previous changes, regardless of their basis. (8) Amendment of the concession contract which does not meet the conditions under para. 3 and 6 is invalid. (9) When calculating the value of the concession, it shall be updated according to the indexing clause, where provided for by the concession contract, and where not provided for by the value of the average inflation for the previous 12 months. (10) The average annual inflation shall be determined by the National Statistical Institute index. (11) An amendment to the concession contract shall be made by means of an additional agreement following a reasoned proposal from one of the parties to the contract. (12) The concession shall make, accept or refuse to accept a proposal to amend the concession contract. (13) Where the modification of the concession contract is within the framework of the decision to initiate the procedure or the designation of the concessionaire, the amendment shall be made without issuing a new decision of the concession. (14) Within 30 days of the conclusion of the Additional Agreement, an official appointed by the Minister of Tourism shall publish a notice in the National concession register amending the concession awarded under Annex No 9 of the Law on concessions. Art. Eight o'clock. (1) Where one of the parties claims that a reason for amending the concession contract has arisen but no agreement can be reached on the amendment of the contract, the dispute shall be settled under the Civil Procedure Code. (2) Upon the entry into force of the judgment, the parties shall sign an additional agreement amending the contract or the concession contract shall remain unchanged. Art. Eight o'clock. (1) The concessioner shall inform the concession holder of the pre-conditioned transformation with universal jurisdiction and shall make a proposal to replace the concessionaire with a successor. The concession holder shall submit to the proposal information on the conditions of the preparation of the conversion and evidence that the successor is eligible for participation and that there is no grounds for exclusion. (2) Where the successor meets the requirements of para. 1, the concession shall adopt a decision giving consent to the replacement of the concessionaire. The decision shall be adopted within two months of the submission of the request or the removal of the irregularities thereof. Following the entry into force of the transformation, the concession holder and successor shall conclude an additional agreement amending the concession contract by replacing the concession holder. (3) Where the successor does not meet the requirements of para. 1, the concession shall adopt a decision refusing the replacement of the concessionaire. (4) In the event of conversion of the concessionaire by changing the legal form, the concessionaire or his successor shall inform the concession holder of the conversion carried out. In this case, the requirements of para. 1 "3" shall not apply. Art. 8-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. (1) The concession contract shall be terminated with the expiry of (2) Before the expiry of the concession period, the concession contract shall be terminated from the concession without notice where there is evidence that, at the date of conclusion of the concession contract for the concessionaire, there was grounds for exclusion. (3) Before the expiry of the concession period, the concession contract shall be terminated: 1. with the complete destruction of the site of the concession; 2. upon termination of the concession firm from the date of termination of the company; 3. in the event of bankruptcy of the applicant from the date of entry into force of the judgment; 4. in the case of a judgment to terminate the concession contract from the date of entry into force of the judgment; 5. on other grounds provided for in a law or by the concession contract from the date specified therein. (4) In the cases under para. 3 The Party which has known of the termination of the suspension shall notify the other Party of the termination of the concession contract within 10 days of the knowledge. (5) The concession contract may be terminated unilaterally from the concession: 1. in the event of a subsequent threat to the national security and defence of the country, to the life and health of citizens, to the environment, to protected areas, zones and objects and to public order, unless there is a reason for amending the contract; or 2. where the concessionaire has not notified the concession to occur on grounds of exclusion within the period under art. 8c, para. 2 either has not taken the measures referred to by it within the time limit to remedy the consequences and to effectively prevent future cases of unlawful conduct; 3. where the conversion by universal administration of the concessionaire is carried out: (a) without a decision of the concession giving consent to the replacement of the concessionaire, unless the successor proves that it meets the conditions for participation and that there is no grounds for exclusion; or (b) in the case of an adopted decision of the concession refusing the replacement of the concessionaire. (6) The concession contract may be terminated unilaterally or by mutual agreement under conditions laid down by law or by the concession contract. (7) In the event of non-compliance with a concession contract, the right-to-use party may terminate the contract with written notice, giving the other party an appropriate period of execution with a warning that after the expiry of the period it will consider the contract terminated. (8) The unilateral termination of the concession contract, the submission of a proposal or the adoption of a proposal for termination of the contract by mutual agreement shall be carried out by a decision of the concession. (9) In the decision under para. 8 The concession shall indicate the consequences of the termination of the concession contract as provided for in the contract. (10) The concession contract shall also be terminated when declared invalid with a judgment in force. (11) The provisions of the Commercial Law and the Law on Obligations and Contracts shall apply respectively to outstanding issues concerning the termination of the concession contract. (12) An official appointed by the Minister of Tourism shall send information on the termination of the concession contract within 14 days in the National concession register. 5. Chapter 2 shall be created with art. 8z and 8y: ? Chapter two??? Control of the implementation of the concluded This appropriation is intended to cover commitments Art. 8z. (1) The control of the execution of concession contracts shall include periodic control of the fulfilment of the terms of the concession and of the obligations of the concessionaire under the concession contract as provided for therein. (2) Where the concession contract does not provide for control by the concession holder, it shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Minister of Tourism. (3) The control for the implementation of the concession contracts concluded shall be carried out by the Minister of Tourism through officials of the relevant administration. (4) Officials under para. 3 carry out checks by periodic checks on the performance of concessionaires' obligations under specific concession contracts, including on the performance of concession remuneration obligations. (5) The check under para. 4 shall be carried out by: 1. verification and analysis of the documents set out in the concession contract to take account of the results of the fulfilment of the obligations of the concessionaire; 2. planned on-the-spot checks carried out on the basis of a pre-approved timetable; 3. extraordinary on-the-spot checks; 4. geodetic or other measurement of the site. (6) The checks under para. 4 end with findings regarding the implementation by the concessionaire of: 1. the conditions for carrying out the concession; 2. the obligations under the concession contract; 3. the deadlines for fulfilling the obligations; 4. the fulfilment of the concession fees obligations; 5. compliance with the regulations governing the activities related to the relevant object of the concession. (7) An official appointed by the Minister of Tourism by 30 September annually shall submit information on the implementation of the concession contract for the previous year to the national concession register. The information shall be sent according to a template maintained on the website of the National Concession Register. (8) Based on the information under para. 7 for all concession contracts which he has concluded, the Minister of Tourism shall draw up and submit to the Council of Ministers an annual report on the implementation of the projects and concession contracts included in the relevant action plan. Art. 8y (1) Depending on the number of concession contracts controlled, on the type of concession sites and on their territorial location, the Minister of Tourism shall appoint one or more committees to control the activities of officials. (2) The Minister of Tourism shall issue an order setting out: 1. the Chair and Vice-President of the Control Committee; 2. the names of the other members of the control committee. (3) Representatives of the specialized administration of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Tourism shall be included in the committee. (4) No person may participate in the composition of the committee who: 1. there is material interest in the concession under the control of the control committee; 2. is a related person within the meaning of § 1, item 2. 16 of the additional provisions of the Law on concessions with a concessionaire, which is a party to a contract, subject to the control of the Commission, or with its sub-contractor. 3. does not meet the conditions under point 3. 1 and 2 and there is a ground for a waiver from the specific concession. (5) The Commission for Control shall adopt rules for its work, which shall be validated by the Minister of Tourism. (6) The Commission's meetings shall be attended by the persons referred to in art. 8z, para. 3, whose reports are on the agenda. If necessary, the control committee may invite other persons to its meetings or to carry out the checks. (7) The control committee shall have the following powers: 1. examine the submitted reports and other documents by adopting decisions with which: (a) instruct officials; (b) make proposals to the authority which organises the control of concession contracts; 2. carry out on-the-spot checks as necessary; 3. consider issues relevant to the implementation, modification and termination of concession contracts; 4. propose to the Minister of Tourism the award of certain expert or technical activities related to the control activities of third parties; 5. perform other actions related to the control of concession contracts defined by the order of appointment and the rules of its work. (8) When adopting its decisions, the control committee shall take into account the results of the expert and technical activities carried out under para. 7, p. 4. (9) The Commission shall adopt an annual report on the implementation of concession contracts, which shall be submitted to the concession holder after its approval by the Minister of Tourism. (10) The annual report shall contain: 1. aggregate results for each concession concerning: (a) the execution of concession contracts recorded by concessionaires; (b) inspections and expertise carried out; 2. action taken to address problems arising in the implementation of concession contracts and in the performance of control activities; 3. analysis of the implementation and non-compliance of concession contracts under the control carried out; 4. conclusions and recommendations for addressing problems arising in the implementation of concession contracts and improving control activities. (11) In carrying out their activities, members of the control committees and officials shall be entitled to: 1. of free access to the subject-matter of concession; 2. to require and verify documents, data, information and references relating to the performance of the concession contract; 3. to require written explanations of the performance of the concession contract from the persons examined. (12) In the absence of assistance from the persons inspected, officials and members of the control committee may request the assistance of the competent authorities, including the police authorities in advance or, where necessary, in the performance of their duties. 6. Article 3 is inserted in Chapter 3. 17b: Art. 17b (1) The passage, parking and stay of vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers on the territory of the sea beach shall be prohibited. (2) The prohibition on the passage, parking and stay of vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers under para. 1 shall not apply to cases of carrying out compulsory activities under Article 1 authorised under the relevant order. 7, para. 2, the provision of beach services and the provision of emergency and rescue activities on the territory of the sea beach. 7. In chapter four, art. 22a, para. 1 is created t. 3: "3." 40 per cent of the amount of the concession fee and forty per cent of the rental price shall be paid as revenue under the budget of the Ministry of Tourism. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30, para. 3 after the word "parking" is added to the territory of the seaside or "sailing."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u21	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, although this § 4 is for amendment and supplement to the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, we can safely call it a "Paragraph" dream come true. The Ministry of Tourism's dream of complete and total control from the moment of preparation of the concession procedure to its final conclusion, including with regard to its control. I will only refer to two texts of the many provisions that have been presented to us here. First of all, Art. 8sh, para. When the concession contract can be terminated unilaterally, i.e. by the State for concession on the sea beach. In the event of a subsequent occurrence, he said. 1 A danger to the national security and defence of the country, to the life and health of citizens, to the environment, to protected areas, zones and sites and to public order, unless there is a reason for amending the contract. In short, if there is a basis for amending the treaty, that is to say maintaining its action, all these basic principles and protections, including constitutional protection, such as national security, defence, life and health, go to the background. The interests of the concessionaire remain at the forefront. The interests of citizens are in the background, they are pushed into the corner and no one is interested in either national security or defence or life and health. It is important that we keep the revenue of the.. that is the main thing that we are told in this text. And another text related to control. Art. 8z. (2) Where the concession contract does not provide for the order of control by the concession holder, it shall be carried out in accordance with the order laid down by the Minister of Tourism. We see the state of control now! And regardless of whether the Minister of Tourism is named Nikolina Angelkova, or is otherwise said, this order, which is envisaged, which we are returning now, which is the old order of cosmetic changes, will only lead to the continuation of these ugly phenomena that we see at the moment on the Bulgarian Black Sea coast, of violation of concession contracts, of failure to comply with their clauses, and yet, despite violations of public interest, of staying the concession holders to continue to profit at the expense of the exclusive state property as the sea beaches are. There is no way we can support this paragraph! A paragraph which practically legitimises the total monopoly and control of the Ministry of Tourism over the overall concessionation, which, in turn, increases the risk of corruption practices in the award of concession and in the control of concession contracts for Black Sea beaches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u23	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I am proposing a technical editing proposal in art. 8yu, par.3: the words.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As a matter of fact, al. 3 to be done as follows: The composition of the Commission includes representatives of the specialized administration of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Tourism, Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Environment and Water with a view to carrying out greater control.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. I put to the vote, first of all, Mrs. Anna Alexandrova's proposal, which has just been read, with the supplement she made to the text of para. 3.................................................................................. 8yu, al. 3. Vote 128 MPs: 95 against 8, abstention 25. The motion is accepted. And now I am putting to the vote the version of the Commission for § 4 with the amendment made by Mrs. Alexandrova. They voted 145 MPs: for 107, against 10, abstention 28. The motion is accepted. Negative vote please, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u26	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! While we are indulging in sweet dreams of our upcoming vacation and so pleasantly talking to each other, in fact, what is going on right now is returning the old vicious regime. We didn't give the new guy a chance at all, and we're practically legitimizing the power of the goons on the Black Sea. [[Private applause from OP.]] That's what we're doing right now. Tonight I guarantee you for what we voted for, that there will be a lot of face-to-face banquets on the Black Sea. Bail! The other thing we're doing right now is we're giving birth to tourist Stalin. The whole procedure, from the very beginning to the very end, with the control in one hand: I have the power of Sowetham. That's what we're doing right now! And happy sunbeds for 40 leva. On the beaches, because that's what we're doing right now! I'll tell you something else. This is not about Mrs. Angelkova's personality. After her, there'll be another minister. Believe me, believe me, in a year's time, we will be forced after the season's failure to change all this, this machine that we are currently creating a depraved machine. We will see each other in a year to be safe and sound, and we will return to the new regime because this guarantees a failure in tourism and sunbeds of 40 BGN, and already the Kawatsite - 70 BGN. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u27	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Second negative vote. [[Heckling]] No, that was a negative vote. We continue with the following texts, please, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u28	Proposal from the MPs Anna Alexandrova, Alexander Ivanov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. The environmental noise protection law establishes art. 24a. (prom., D.V., No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 Art. 24a The Council of Ministers' decree lays down the conditions and arrangements for the interaction between state authorities in carrying out their control powers under this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u29	Are there any statements on this text? I won't. We are going to vote on the new § 5 in the version of the Commission. They voted 142 MPs: 102, against 10, abstention 30. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u30	Proposal from the MPs Anna Alexandrova, Alexander Ivanov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 6: ........................................................... Within six months of the entry into force of this Act, the Council of Ministers shall adopt the ordinance under Article. 24a of the Environmental Protection Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u31	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the creation of § 6 with a text that has just been proposed to your attention. They voted 139 MPs: 98, against 13, abstention 28. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u32	Proposal from the MPs Alexander Ivanov, Alexander Nenkov and Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 7: .................................................... The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 2, para. 1 and 2, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u33	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the creation of § 7, which is the last paragraph of this bill. They voted 134 MPs: 96 against 11, abstention 27. The motion is accepted. Minister Angelkova, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to thank everyone for the support and for the debate that we had in connection with the adoption of the Law on Supplement to the Law on concessions and the regulation of the concession of the sea beaches. I can assure you that, as I made a commitment after the vote at first reading, I will rely on your support and suggestions to continue the debate on the development and creation of a long-term specific strategy in relation to the Bulgarian Black Sea coast to make our summer tourism product even more attractive. Thanks again for your support.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u35	Thank you, Minister Angelkova. We continue with the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE ROADS, No 895-01-46. Entered by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. Mr. Vesselinoff, we're waiting for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u36	Madam President, honourable Members! Report for the second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act, No 954-01-46, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs, adopted in the first vote on 10 July 2019. The Law on Roads is amended and supplemented by the Law on Roads and Roads. The Commission supports the importer's text on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u37	Are there any statements on the name of the Law? I can't see. We are going to vote on the text of the importer on the name of the Law. They voted 109 MPs: 99, against 3, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u38	Madam President, allow me to propose a procedure for the admission of Deputy Minister Jovev and Professor Oleg Asenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u39	Thank you. We are voting for admission in this Chamber. 125 MPs voted: 117 against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u40	According to § 1, there is a proposal from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the wording of importers and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 the following 1. In para. 1, t. 2 after the words the corresponding road or road section shall be commaed and the distance requested shall be calculated on the basis of the sum of the individual toll segments in which the road vehicle concerned has entered and the fees due shall be determined on the basis of the sum of the charges calculated for the relevant toll segments. 2. In para. 15 words with the providers of the data claimed shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u41	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 1. They voted 122 MPs: for 83, against 6, abstention 33. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u42	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of importers and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10b, para. 5 after the words the paid road network shall be commaed and added by the most direct route along the paid road network and shall be added by the most direct route along the paid road network.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u43	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's version of the Commission's Report on § 2. Vote 128 MPs: for 85, against 4, abstention 39. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u44	According to § 3 there is a proposal from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of importers and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10k the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words "supplier' and "supplier of electronic charging services' are added and the words "in a format suitable for processing by the electronic tolling system' are deleted. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: supplier of declared data that meets the requirements laid down by the ordinance under art. 10, para. 7 shall be entered in a publicly disclosed list of providers of declared data led by the Road Infrastructure Agency and shall enter into a contract with a provider of electronic fee collection services for distance travelled for transmission of data on geographical positioning and distance travelled from road vehicles to users with which the same contract has been concluded. 3. Allinea 3 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u45	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the Commission's version of the Commission's Report on § 3. Vote 119 MPs: 82, against 25, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u46	The Commission shall, in principle, support the wording of importers and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21, para. 3 the following amendments shall 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 21 words on the providers of the data claimed shall be deleted. 2. Point 23 is repealed. 3. point 24 is amended as follows: It's 24 o'clock. carry out control and supervision of the activities of the providers of declared data, ensuring that they meet the requirements laid down in the ordinance under art. 10, para. 7 and conducts a public list of persons who meet those requirements
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u47	Are there any speeches? There's no wish to make a statement. We're going to vote. We are voting § 4 in the version of the Commission. They voted 116 MPs: 79, against 18, abstention 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u48	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of importers and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The second sentence shall be created: The recovery of unduely paid fees under Art. 55. 10 and under art. 18 is carried out in accordance with the Law on State Fees.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u49	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 5. They voted 110 MPs: 77 against 1, abstention 32. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u50	The Commission shall, in principle, support the wording of importers and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... Paragraph 1 of the additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. point 32 is amended as follows: "32." "Declared tol data' is structured, standardised information defined by the person collecting tolls for his area of toll collection containing data on the unique identifier of the section/unique identifier of the charging facility, geographical reference point, list of points used in the data elements of the section description, charging rules, toll segment (s) where the road vehicle is entered for which tol fee is due, tariff information for each tol segment, registration number, vehicle category, date and time and other. 2. A t is created. 35: It's 35. For the purpose of this Decision, the Commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 10, para. 6 rate for the road or road section concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u51	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 6. They voted 116 MPs: 80 against 6, abstention 30. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u52	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports, in principle, the importer's text on the name of the subdivision, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place after § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u53	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the rejection of the name as proposed by the Commission report. Vote 117 MPs: 82 against 14, abstention 21. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u54	Under § 7 there is a proposal from the MPs Dora Yankova, Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev § 7 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the wording of importers and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In the transitional and final provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Roads (prom., SG No. No. 80 of 2018, amend., No. 105 from 2018) the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 19a is inserted: seventeena. The charging of road vehicles with a total technically permissible maximum mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes with the fee under art. 10, para. 1, t. 2 The fee shall be applied from the day following the day of the promulgation in the Official Journal of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, but not later than 1 March 2020. 2. In § 20: (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: Until the application of the fee charge under art. 10, para. 1, t. 2 road vehicles with a total technically permissible maximum mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes shall pay the fee under art. 10, para. 1, t. 1 "Wint fee for monthly, weekly or daily electronic bill.' (b) in para. 2 the words s 15 August 2019, including.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 10, para. 1, c. The following 3. In § 22, the word "annual' shall be deleted and the words "the 15th August 2019 period' shall be replaced by the expiry of its validity, in which case no fee shall be payable. 4. In § 23, the words "sixteenth August 2019" shall be replaced by the charge of the fee under art. 10, para. 1, c. The following 5. In § 24, the words "not later than 15 August 2019' shall be deleted. 6. In § 25, the words 10, para. 1, t. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European 7. Paragraph 27 is repealed. 8. Paragraph 28 is repealed. 9. Paragraph 29 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u55	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! For nearly a year now we have been listening to the regional minister how all roads will be repaired with the money from the toll system. It almost didn't come to some embarrassing situations where he would go out on the stand and say that one way or another in the Stara Zagora region between two villages would be repaired with the money from the toll system. The Tol system has become a panacea and we all expected that from August 16th the system will work and those notorious billions that will flow will almost be distributed, that there will be quality repairs, that people will not complain that their cars are breaking, that we have almost already found a solution to this problem. Moreover, we also rushed to hire approximately 600 people to work in this system, that is to say, close and familiar, and at the same time people are waiting that especially September.October will begin repairs so that they really are calm for a second-class, third-class road network. We would be delighted if you really collected such revenue to fully satisfy their wishes because it was promoted. For two years, a great propaganda! Suddenly it turns out that instead of on August 16th to work the famous toll system, with so many people, with so many specialists, suddenly we postpone it. The big question is, why are we putting it off? Because there are people who are dissatisfied. It's a good thing these people are unhappy. But I ask: where were you during these years to explain to the carriers what the tariffs would be? Where were you to seek a dialogue, or perhaps, as you and I do not wish to sit down and for major purposes that concern a change in a given system, to sit down, to have a discussion, so that by adopting one law, for the next at least two years, we do not change it. Suddenly the carriers came, said they were unhappy, and typical of the government you gave back. That is to say, this shows your inability to de facto make some major reform. Yes, I agree that it is at second reading and that is why we say the following: let it remain August 16th. There is really still time so that the system can really be adapted and start working. You are clearly unable to fulfill your commitments you have promised in the last two years and delay for example after six months. I assure you that in six months you will not be ready again. The problem is, ladies and gentlemen of GERB that you will de facto lie to the Bulgarian voters. Why? Because the government of this tribune in the face of the previous minister and the current minister for any lack of financial means to repair the road network explains that the solution is one thing and that is the creation, the beginning of work of the notorious tol system that we opposition support. But the fact that it doesn't start on August 16th is entirely your fault and shows your inability to de facto change systems, make introductions. Yes, canceling something and branding it is very good, but when it comes to innovation, you clearly show inability. Again, on our part we are ready to help you, you do not want to do as you wish. But you can see that the carriers themselves are pushing you, showing your inability, and obviously we will wait for another six months, and for the Bulgarian voters of those who are in the villages, those who live with the holes, we say to them: wait another half a year, hopefully next summer we do have a toll system and hopefully this money reaches your little settlement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u57	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u58	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Stoinev, you are surprised and you hope that in six months the system will enter. Don't get your hopes up, make sure they don't make it back then either. Yesterday's main argument for the rejection of the machines was that the time for the local elections would not be enough, although for the machines the issue had been clarified as early as 2014. The same is with the toll system. It's just that these are the possibilities of the current government. A step forward, two backwards. The previous law we were looking at for concessions changed it six months ago, now we have returned the exact opposite situation. So don't be surprised, this is the capacity of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u59	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Is there a second line? I won't. Mr. Stoinev? You will not take this right. A statement? Here you go, Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u60	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We are taking an attitude as we have a proposal that this paragraph be dismissed. Why? I will quote several speeches by the former Minister of Regional Development and then Deputy Minister Nikolay Nankov. On March 16, 2018: A billion are expected to happen next year, we mean 2019 after the system to work. We are now discussing how to exploit heavy goods vehicles and tariffs. Month of March 2018 This was announced by Nikolay Nankov in Varna, and the discussion of tariffs and categorisation began only in April this year. On April 29, 2018 in Blagoevgrad, regional minister Nikolay Nankov said: "Money does not reach for repairs, for road construction. Eight thousand kilometers are in a tragic state. Without such a taxi, we are doomed, and after 2020, we will be wondering what to do. Nankov optimisticly states: "Go perfect performance of the contract with the Austrian company: from 1 January 2019 electronic wineries and from May tol fees. At the moment, there is tariffs and pricing. The actual charge is set to start at 11,000. km network, or approximately 55 On 9 May 2019 Deputy Minister Nankov said: "There is a complete readiness to test the real-time tol system, as announced on 15 May and 15 May has passed long ago! 27 cameras are installed and the other 63, for which construction permits have been issued, will be installed within a few days. Members of Parliament, with your proposal to extend the deadline quite naturally, the question arises: who is responsible for all these speeches and for what did not happen, for this optimism that smelled from the speeches of the Minister and the Deputy Minister? And do you know at the parliamentary control of how many questions Minister Nankov and now Minister Avramova answered that with the additional funds collected from tol fees in 2019 they will be repaired?! I have tried to make a reference, I have come to over 20 questions, which answer that the 2019 funds will fix roads, and I have stopped, there is no need! Make up your own mind. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u61	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. Are there any lines to his statement? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Colleagues of the BSP, I don't know when you're being honest when you're going out on this stand. You are talking about this and have proposed a paragraph with which you want to enter into force now the current law on 16 August to begin the electronic charging of heavy goods vehicles. You told a lot of people to start it right away, and the last time we voted on the Roads Act, with which we regulated and fixed August 16th, then you were against it. I'm beginning to wonder, are you actually about this electronic system being introduced or not? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm very sorry your worldview is so short. We're talking about months here. For objective reasons, we have decided, if you will, and a little risk, on the one hand, to find some necessary balance between the interests of stakeholders, on the other hand, and to test the electronic system itself in real time, where, after August 16th, all heavy goods vehicles will be able to be equipped with the relevant onboard devices. The state will be able to make a more accurate account of what tariffs the revenues will be. To see how much heavy goods cars really go, because they give some statistics. Rather, it is estimated, but until it really begins to go through the frames and see what the real kilometers are, it is very difficult for the carriers themselves to account for. You, speaking from this tribune, get the impression that this electronic system is on GERB, and we are doing something here. Tomorrow, you colleagues will rule. [[(Reply from GERB:]] I'm sure this system will be for example... It's not certain, the coworkers say, that's probably true. I'm trying to be constructive enough in my speech. This system was not made for GERB. It's not for two months, it's not for three months, it's for decades. I am sure that it will be done literally in the coming weeks and months, will start as it should, and will benefit from its good years ahead. Every parliamentary control you ask questions about roads, new roads and so on. It is a reform that really generates and will have a sufficient resource in the country, and in the Agency in particular, to be able to carry out all those projects that you are talking about. The very hypocritical behavior is not correct at all. The last time we introduced a legislative system, you were against it, while saying how much you are about it. Note that if you do not support the text we have imported, this means, firstly, that heavy goods vehicles under the current law will start to pay not monthly but one week of wine, then the time will come before August 16th, when this sale of weekly wine will have to be stopped. This whole thing is gonna hurt business even more. So, fellow Members, your arguments are absolutely untenable in your desire to postpone the paragraph that we have made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u63	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. - What's the line? First line, come in, Mr. Prodanov, and then we'll give the other groups the opportunity to make lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Nenkov, I may have answered the question in the previous line. We're here to respect the laws and to respect the deadlines. After all these laws, these deadlines have been passed by you. You accept something, and then you cancel it, and you create chaos. I gave you an example: this was the way it was with the engine vote. We adopted deadlines, we accepted how long we had to go to the engine vote, you canceled it. The time limits for the roads and the toll system have been accepted by you. You're canceling them again. For the concessions, last year we adopted the Law on concessions. You accepted it, we were against it now canceling it. The conclusion is that you are clearly unable to offer sustainable legislation. There are our claims to you, so we do these lines and we vote this way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u65	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Second line from GERB's group? Here you go, Mr. Dinkov. It's your turn.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u66	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Nenkov, no, we are not short-sighted, but when documents are adopted, especially such an important law, it must be implemented within the time limits in which it is discussed that it must be implemented. Article 10 "When we adopted September the amendment to the Roads Act, there were three documents that had to be drawn up and adopted. The first document according to art. 10, para. 1 The list of roads, and to be published in the Official Journal. The second was about tariffs. The third was to adopt a regulation on the terms and conditions for the collection of tol fees. Of all that we have adopted, the only document adopted is on 10 December 2018 with Decree No 285 of the Council of Ministers on the terms and conditions for collecting tolls. Why didn't we work for almost a year or after September to fulfill the Law under this article and those paragraphs that we adopted? Whose fault is it? Who is responsible after all? Why didn't the negotiations with the carriers begin at the beginning of January, as it was declared? The first meeting took place on 16 May 2018, and the Advisory Council started working a week ago. That is the question: who is responsible?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u67	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. Third line? Mr. Shishkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Nenkov, I will make a sharp remark to your speech. Please do not mislead the audience, tomorrow the colleagues from BSP will not manage, that is more than clear. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Most likely they will not manage in the next few months, but we are responsible for whether this system will start, how it will function and whether the right balance will be made between preserving the state interest and maintaining the interests of the carriers. It's our responsibility, so don't let the public down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u69	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Mr. Nenkov, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! After all, you are for the electronic system, you are voting against. All of a sudden, you're the big winners of the engine vote, but when you actually accepted it, it wasn't a theme at all. Now you have become a topic because it is beneficial for you politically. You are also for modernization of the Bulgarian Army, but as far as you say your participation in tomorrow's debate, and there you will not support it, so I do not know what great reformers you are. Of course, on someone else's back, a hundred sticks are not enough. We're committed to making an electronic system. We appreciate the risk that could possibly lead to a hasty decision. Although we have fixed some legal deadline on 16 August, we consider quite frankly, and at the last debate when we spoke at the first vote, I said: this is a system too complicated, which does not require any urgency from today's point of view, to leave tomorrow. It's a system that will work decades ahead. All governments will now benefit from it and need each risk to be minimized. True, in May the negotiations began, there is a convergence of positions, but I do not think that a few weeks, even if you will, the entire legal period has been completed by March.. to be materialized will be fatal for the introduction of such a system. Moreover, I quite rightly said from this tribune: January month we had a good desire for electronic wineries to start, there was a technical delay, there were problems at the beginning of something that no one has ever done before. It is very easy in words, but we are going to make this reform because it is a reform in the real sense of the word. On January 1st we saw that we have a problem, if you will, even technically the first days, although quickly cleared, it is not relevant at all to the complexity of what should begin from August 16th under the current law. We believe that it is irresponsible to approach in an administrative and forceful way with the aim of what? Satisfying some political ego and putting both carriers and colleagues in the Agency, in general the state, in a state where multiple problems can arise and be cleaned up over time. I think that the sensible and more state-based approach is that this really happens in real testing of the system, to achieve the balance of roads, what will be the scope, what will be the price proposals, to have some confidence among all stakeholders, and to technically clear any problem that would arise because from August 16th "the way we have proposed it, the system is starting to work. They will also be able to have a much more accurate assessment of what could possibly arise as a problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u71	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, once again we are discussing the postponement of the Tol system. Once again here in plenary is the parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and is not Mr. Nankov when we talk about the problems. Yes, Deputy Minister Jobev has come, but his functional duties are in another area. However, we should thank him for coming to respect us, but the real culprit, the real responsible deputy minister, shouldn't go so far, should be here and it should be clear why he doesn't go. Mr. Nenkov, I told you last time: don't get involved in this role, it doesn't make sense. No matter how many wells you take out water and say how the BSP is to blame, it's not!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u73	I didn't say BSP was guilty.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u74	It's not your fault either. I told you, it's the ones who can't make it happen. The guilty are those who made you personally introduce these laws, with the clear awareness that they have neither the opportunities nor the competences to do this job. From BSP we have repeatedly stated, and I stress it again and declare it from this tribune: we are for the toll system. There is no fairer payment system than this. But you can't realize it, you failed! Yesterday, all the carriers are wondering what to do based on your incompetence. And that should be clear to the general public, Mr. Shishkov "that you failed because August 16th was the deadline to start the system not technical and commercial, the whole system to start. The test that you are talking about is due to begin on 16 September 2018. Why didn't it start? Who is responsible not to start the test on 16 September 2018 but to start on 16 August 2019? That's why they have names. Somebody didn't do their job! Someone took the money to do something, didn't do it, and no one took responsibility for it. Come on, let's talk the truth. In the end, the carriers take everything and you make excuses for them. What prevented you from having your conversations with the carriers? Two years! Sit down at a table and say: Here are the rates. Here we offer you tariffs. The carriers accepted these tariffs: the buses, the carriers, to be in charge, were accepted by them. Why don't you apply it, what are you waiting for? It won't change with anything more complicated. August 16th is in twenty days. You've got tariffs, you've got coverage, you've got carrier consent. Why? Would they ask you how the roads will be repaired when there is no money from this system? Well, there won't be, because you're not introducing her. Parliamentary control will continue with these questions, only those who have to answer are still not here. They're back somewhere on the roads, on the broken roads we're waiting for money to be repaired for. Whose fault is it? Give time to the 16th and you will see how the entire parliamentary group will support you. However, only problems would now drop the monthly bill next week. Who will compensate the carriers who pay for the passage two and three times more expensive than now? Tell me who? Is it Nankov, Avramova, or someone here in this room? Because the daily wine is much more expensive than the monthly one. You removed the year-old a few months ago, if you remember, right?! Then don't you think you should take a 12-month test? Just four months ago, in February, you removed the annual bill. Then did you not realize that August month will not enter the system, or is it a very long time to think? The only thing you do in this room is pass laws and then cancel them. Someone has to say the price of this cancellation, the price of the deals that are going! Otherwise the parliament here can sit around the clock and cancel our deadlines today was for the toll system, before it was for the engine vote, before it was for the personal documents. Where are your IDs here I see Mr. Tzipov?! And that deadline has changed. Tell me, is there a law on which we have not changed the deadline for entry? Is there one?! If anyone tells me a law, I'll congratulate them. Each law two, three times. It must be clear to the Bulgarian citizens that you do not have the opportunity, competence and desire to introduce the system. You want to postpone it, you want the carriers not to pay, you want international traffic to go free through Bulgaria and the roads to be broken. That's gotta be clear! The European funds are running out. Who's gonna fix these roads? Anybody want to answer that? I say again: only the parliamentary secretary is a direct witness to all our debates here, but, unfortunately, from the balcony he has no way of getting involved. Minister Avramova, Minister Nankov where are they?! By the way, Minister Nankov became Deputy Minister with only one responsibility: to introduce the system, otherwise he was gone like the other ministers. Where's the toll system now, where's Minister Nankov? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u75	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? [[The National Representative Mladen Shishkov wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] What personal explanation, Mr. Shishkov? I didn't hear you mentioned. [[Reply from the National Representative Mladen Shishkov.]] Personally, no one accused you of incompetence. I didn't hear your name. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I have no reason to explain myself. It wasn't mentioned personally. Here you are, you have the opportunity to reply, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Although I believe that I have reason to use a personal explanation, I will take advantage of the reply procedure. Dear Mr. Svilensky, it is difficult for us to accept criticism from people who have built a 30km highway for their life cycle, and this highway is currently in a miserable state. They didn't even think about this system, they didn't even think about conceiting, they didn't think about any reform, and now they're criticizing us that we're, you see, going to change some deadlines by a few months. Yes, there are problems with the wineries. Yesterday an exact explanation of the problem was given, and in just a few days it will be solved. This will in no way burden the carriers, however, as it was assumed that if the system had been introduced, they would most likely have paid several times more than the billables they will now pay. So you have no cause for concern in this regard. The threat to the suspension of European funds.............................................................................................. don't use it. European funds will not be stopped! They keep working. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We hope so! Yeah, hopefully they'll keep working, depending on who's in charge, of course. The reform, construction, construction of new infrastructure in Bulgaria continues with full force. Therefore, the exact formula must be found, the balance between a country and a carrier should be found so that it can be serviced, rehabilitated and properly reconstructed the entire road network in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u77	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Is there a second line? Second line to Mr. Svilenski, please come in, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u78	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Svilenski, it seems to me that you have shown great tolerance in your speech to the situation so created. Attention should be paid to the fact that the ruling majority and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works failed to comply with Prime Minister Borisov's strict instructions for the so-called money press. I will recall the case twenty days before the introduction of the Bill a famous ride in the prime minister's jeep, when he met the TIRes and told Minister Nankov: "Here they are, Nankov! Coming through. Only with the trucks that have passed for this period will the roads be fixed. Run the printery for money!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u79	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Is there a third line? Here you are, Mr. Svilensky, you have the opportunity for a dot.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Thanks to colleagues Ivanov and Shishkov for the lines. Mr. Ivanov, you're right! The trucks pass, the trucks pass, the printery doesn't work and Mr. Nankov will probably ride not in the backseat next week, but in the trunk because the printery doesn't work! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u81	Mr. Svilensky!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u82	Mr. Shishkov, because you personally said yes, I didn't make a 30km highway, that's for sure, but at least listen when I talk. I never said the funds would be cut off. I said that the funds run out and with this money from the European funds you can't repair your poorly-made highways, and you need other money. And Bulgarian citizens need to know that they will pay with their own money to be able to repair poorly built highways from your management over the last ten years. By the way, it will be one year, and you refuse to carry out an inspection to prove what you are saying that everything was quality. However, again Mrs. Avramova and Mr. Nankov are afraid of checking the Bulgarian roads. You say Tuesday the problem will be solved. Once again, I turn to the Bulgarian carriers: on Tuesday, your problem will not be solved, because you read the Constitution, you read the laws of the European Union in order for a law to come into effect, it must be at least 14 days and then it can be published. There is no law passed on Thursday to enter...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u83	The president's gonna...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u84	No, Mr. Ivanov, I didn't say the president would... I'm telling you when it's gonna take effect.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u85	Who told you that?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u86	Read the Constitution there is written.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u87	Who told you that?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u88	Mr. Ivanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u89	Well, who told you he was coming in on Monday? [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u90	Mr. Ivanov, you have the opportunity from the stands to state your position.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u91	I tell you: within 14 days, so do not fool the Bulgarian carriers. Until the Law enters into force until it is published in the Official Gazette, they will pay more expensive wineries, more expensive fees and should know who is responsible for this: Political Party GERB, Mrs Avramova, Mr. Nankov and the driver of the first left seat of the SUV Mr. Borisov. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u92	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Are there any other statements? In the manner of conduct here, Mr. Shishkov. You finally found a procedure to take the floor again. To me!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, please do not allow lies to be uttered from this stand! The Road Infrastructure Agency has been waiting for a second month for BSP colleagues to go and check the documentation folders prepared for them. This is the procedure.. do not allow lies to be exported.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u94	However, the procedure should now be a remark to me, not in principle to the procedures in the country. Thank you. Are there any other statements? You're welcome, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u95	Mrs. Chairman, strictly following the procedure in the manner of conduct. The colleague was extremely tolerant of his remark just now. However, I have a request to you, which is dictated by all the moral standards of this Parliament. To allow insults in relation to the Prime Minister of the Republic [[(Speaks and shouts: "Eeeee" by BSP for Bulgaria (Bulgaria))]] To speak plain, precise, determined to speak out of this high tribune of lies is politics. Just because a political party is prevented by the Prime Minister, 12 times not being able to take any point from elections does not mean that the President of the National Assembly should be allowed to be insulted by the Prime Minister. [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u96	What's the offense?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u97	What an insult it is, which offends you, and at the moment when I speak from the stand, also... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u98	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u99	...show that I have the right to request a procedure in the manner of conduct. Even now, in this procedure, it is allowed in the National Assembly with shouting and screaming as of a rural megdan to treat the MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u100	You are right, Mr. Manev, insults are unacceptable to both the Prime Minister and the MPs! Are there any speeches? Are there any speeches, honourable Members, on the paragraph under discussion? I won't. I put to the vote, first, the proposal by the MPs Dora Yankova, Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 150 MPs: 55 against 79 abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u101	Vote 150 MPs: 100, against 46, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u102	The Commission proposes to establish a division with the name "Transitional and Final Provisions'.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u103	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to establish a division named "Transitional and Final Provisions." They voted 146 MPs: 99, Against 9, abstention 38. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u104	Proposal by the MP Iskren Veselinov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly is created a new § 8. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 8: ................................................................................... (1) Until the fee under art. 10, para. 1, t. 2 the amount of wine charges for road vehicles with a total technically permissible maximum mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes shall not be higher than the following maximum charges for the use of infrastructure in euro, including the administrative costs determined on an annual basis as follows. The following table is attached to the text. (2) Fees for the use of the infrastructure by road vehicles with a total technically permissible maximum mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes shall be proportionate to the duration of use and shall be valid for a day, week and month. The monthly amount is not higher than 10 per cent of the annual amount, the weekly amount of the annual amount of the weekly amount of the monthly amount of the annual amount, and the daily amount of the daily amount of the annual amount of the daily amount of the annual amount of the annual amount. (3) The maximum daily fee for the use of road infrastructure by road vehicles with a total technically permissible maximum mass exceeding 3.5 tonnes shall be 12 euros.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u105	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Are there any speeches? Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u106	Colleagues, we just adopted § 7, where I think there's been an editorial error, and it's very substantial. See what § 3 sounds like right now. Once the words are removed from August 16, 2019, they shall be replaced by the application of the fee under art. 10, para. 1, t. 2. From the application of the fee charge under art. 10, para. 1, t. 2 to pass on the paid road network of road vehicles with a total technical eligibility maximum mass up to 3,5 tonnes with a Bulgarian or foreign registration shall be collected only the fees under art. 10, para. 1, t. 2. In my opinion, such text cannot exist because, firstly, there is tautology, secondly, there is no logic in the proposed text itself. Thank you. [[The President Emil Hristov and the rapporteur Iskren Veselinov spoke outside the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u107	Mr. Chairman, we'll look at the text, of course. If there's a problem, we'll suggest we go back. I suggest we move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u108	Yeah, we'll keep going, but if there is, we'll reschedule. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 8 with a text according to the Commission report. They voted 129 MPs: 94, against 27, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u109	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... The Road Traffic Act shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 167a, para. 2 t. Five and six are canceled. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) paragraph 1a is amended as follows: In the cases referred to in art. 171, p. 8 the forced administrative measure shall be implemented by a reasoned order of the Director of the Head of the Regional Directorate of the Customs Agency, or by officials from the Agency. (b) in para. 2, p. 3a The words............................................................................. 167a, para. 2, p. the following points are inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (c) in para. 8 the words "the authority that implemented the forced administrative measure" shall be replaced by "the Customs Agency." 3. Paragraph 21a and 21b shall be inserted in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act: ............................................................................... The provisions of art. 139 para. Art. 7, Art. 167, para. Art. 3a, art. 179, para. 3a, 3b, 3d and 3g shall not apply until the application of the fee under art. 10, para. 1, t. 2 of the Roads Act. § 21b. (1) The provision of art. 179, para. 3 shall not apply to road vehicles with a total technically permissible maximum mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes. Until the application of the fee under art. 10, para. 1, t. 2 of the Roads Act driver who drives a road vehicle with a total technically permissible maximum mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes on a road covered by the paid road network for which it is due but not paid a wine fee under art. 10, para. 1, t. 1 of the same law, is punished with a fine 2 000 BGN (2) The administrative infringements under para. 1 shall be established by the relevant officials of the control services referred to in Article 1. Art. 165, Art. 167, para. Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 167a, according to their jurisdiction. (3) The penalty decrees for the administrative violations under para. 1 shall be issued by the Chair of the Board of Directors of the Agency. Articles 187a and 189f shall apply respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u110	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u111	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm taking a position on art. 172, para. 1a " and to the importers of the amendment to the Roads Act and to the Commission. Alinea 1a, as recorded, sounds like: In the cases referred to in art. 171, p. 8 the forced enforcement measure shall be implemented by a reasoned order of the Director of the Head of the Regional Directorate of the Customs Agency or by officials. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 171, p. 8 is said: A time-consuming absence, continuing the movement of a road vehicle for which the obligations of establishing the amount and payment of the relevant fee under art. 10a, para. 1 of the Roads Act, until it is paid, but for no more than a month. What does that mean? The customs have caught the intruder, handed him the administrative act, which was signed by the director of the Directorate at the Office of Customs. The act can be served either on the owner of the vehicle or on the user, in the case of the driver. If they don't pay within a month, what happens? Is Customs going to become a car parking lot with unpaid fees? Where will they be stored? In the previous article. Article 172 and Article 172 167 when acts are imposed by the Road Agency, it is clearly stated how cars that have failed to fulfil their payment obligations, how are they stored and managed, and in this case where will these cars be? A month goes by and 15 or 20 cars do not pay this fee. There's a white spot here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u112	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Are there any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of § 8 by importer, which shall become § 9 proposed by the Commission. They voted 123 MPs: 87, against 22, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, one message. In the Northern foyer, Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will present a model of a monument of the Ninth Infantry Sector. The idea of building the monument has existed for decades and is now about to become a fact thanks to the long efforts of hundreds of Bulgarian citizens, public figures and politicians. The monument will be built in the center of the town of Pleven. Minister of Defence Krasimir Karakachanov is the patron of the initiative for the construction of the Memorial of the Ninth Infantry Sector. All MPs are invited. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u113	Colleagues, let's get back to work. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Please continue, dear Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, we have taken into account Mr. Dinkov's opinion on § 23. Indeed, there is no legal and technical problem with the text so voted, but editorially sounds heavy and clumsy, confusing. In this regard, I ask you to put to the vote a procedure for the return and re-voting of a text of Paragraph 7, item 7. 4 with a view to editorial improvement of the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u115	I don't see a reverse opinion. We are voting on the procedural proposal made by Mr. Veselinov to revote § 7. 110 MPs voted: 96, against 1, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u116	Dear Mr. Chairman, I propose in § 7, item 7. 4 to get the following version: In § 23, the words "16 August 2019" shall be replaced by the words "the day following the day of the promulgation of the Council of Ministers' decision under § 19a, but no later than 1 March 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u117	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. I don't see a reverse opinion. I put to the vote the editorial amendment proposed by the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov. They voted 118 MPs: 84, against 2, abstention 32. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u118	Please put to the vote the so-called amended text of § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u119	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposed text of § 7 with the already adopted editorial amendment. They voted 111 MPs: 82, against 1, abstention 28. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u120	According to § 9 the proposal from the MPs Dora Yankova, Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 9, but proposes to be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 9, item 9. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u121	Are there any speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the Commission of the MPs Dora Yankova, Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev. Vote 131 MPs: 42, against 54, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 9 by importer. They voted 129 MPs: 90, against 21, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u122	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of: 1. par. 1, t. 1, § 2, § 8 and § 9, p. 3 which shall enter into force from 16 August 2019; 2 paragraph 7, p. 7, which shall enter into force from 15 July 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u123	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for § 10. They voted 134 MPs: 88, against 3, abstention 43. The proposal is adopted, with which we have concluded the vote on this point. We continue with the next item of the Work Programme: PROJECTS FOR CHANGES TO RESPONSIBILITIES. I'll introduce you to the first. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Education and Science The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Emil Serafimov Tonchev as a member of the Committee on Education and Science. Please, voting mode. Vote 137 MPs: 134 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Next. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Emil Serafimov Tonchev as a member of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. 2. He elected Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov as a member of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Please, voting mode. They voted 130 MPs: for 128, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Next. Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on Legal Affairs The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Altimir Emilov as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. 2. He elected Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please, voting mode. They voted 129 MPs: 127, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members, we continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR CHANGE OF THE SOCIAL DISCLOSURE CODE. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. I will introduce you to the time of the parliamentary groups, which remains so far: the parliamentary group of the political party GERB We are continuing the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Nedyalkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u124	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The subject of updating old pensions is indeed discussed several times and several arguments have been made. Personally, I liked the opinion of the specialists at the beginning of the discussion when we raised it again nearly a month ago. They then stated that there should be a catch-up development of pensions in Bulgaria. Later these specialists gave up this thesis on catching up. I would also say something else that supports our proposal. In the pension system itself, the conflict of old and new pensions can be resolved with a catch-up development of old pensions. It has already been said that in Bulgaria 8.4% of gross domestic product goes into the pension system, while in other countries of Europe this percentage is 12.6% of the gross domestic product of individual countries. With the offer we're making, we're gonna do something catchy. With us, the gross domestic product that will go for pensions will be slightly above 10%, which is already close to Europe's criteria. Why is there this conflict between old and new pensions? It is clear because the burden of insurance that has begun to accumulate, for example, after 2000, is much greater than the amount previously set aside. And not to mention the time before 1990. This circumstance causes the differences between the old and the more modern remuneration for internship and age. Given that the number of years of participation in the pension system is relatively constant, the earlier pensioners receive lower remuneration due to the lower nominal cash base. This deformity violates a principle of equality between the participants in the pension system and this system is based on this principle. This is one of the reasons for the poor financial situation of most of the current pensioners. Another form of inequality is the insultingly decreasing difference between the low old pensions for internship and age and the minimum pension. Often, pensioners with old pensions say: "Why do I get only 250 BGN? with so many years of service, while people with small work experience have already received 220 BGN.♪ Raising minimum pensions is an anti-systemic approach to increasing pension income. He ignores the principle of internship and age. Modernization is the only way to add the principle of equality to these social security principles. The old pensioners, I'm sorry, but they feel bad because they don't believe they're getting a full pension for that time-delayed reward they've accumulated. They often say, "We built Bulgaria, we studied its people, we even fed Europe back in the day. What do we get in return now as pensions? Objectively speaking, old pensioners are not free, they are secured because, firstly, they have no means and are deprived of the opportunity to travel. Secondly, they have limited opportunities for supportive treatment, and in yesterday's discussion we talked about extending the age of life in Bulgaria. The old pensioners are limited in their socialization, especially in the villages. There, if not the Chitalishtes in some cases even old pensioners endure the Chitalishtes, the people of the village are limited in their socialization. They are deprived of a decent life, calculating every day the price of the 8 levs they have to live with. They feel deprived and because they do not want to receive social benefits and supplements. Yes, I am also a member of the Board of Directors for the removal of social payments from the pension system, but I am also a member of the State to contribute the entire insurance contributions to its employees. However, I believe that you, too, gentlemen and ladies of the National Assembly, at your meetings, have understood that pensioners want decent pensions, not to be referred to social services. This can only be done by updating what we are proposing. Finally, something that haunts me and sees behind the fictional motives....... especially behind the numbers that seem to some of our colleagues....................................................................................... BGN, 1 billion 800 million. lv. And so on! I'm not going to contradict the correctness of these numbers. The truth is, however, the answer to the question: who will redistribute these funds? It is clear that there are no projects behind these numbers, there are no public contracts, indirect and direct awards and other forms of power redistribution. There's no way! This kind of money must go directly to the elderly in order to live up to their days and the elderly to redistribute them according to their needs and to feel a little freer. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause and cheers by "BSP for Bulgaria": "Bravo, bravo!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u125	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Are there any lines? I don't see any lines to the statement. Are there any other statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u126	If there's no one else!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u127	I don't see anyone else. Mr. Gokov, please come in. You're the only one who has applied.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I presented our pension recalculation bill yesterday, I think, quite long and justified, which is why I wasn't going to speak today. But I'm more provoked by the silence of the government. I am glad that yesterday a serious discussion on this issue has started with our proposal for the reclaim of pensions, in general about the levels of pensions, in general about the situation of pensioners in Bulgaria, a discussion which is extremely necessary to take place in society and in our national parliament. Because these people, I have to tell you, are left at the mercy of fate. You must have heard pensioners, and when you meet with the pensioners, they say: "We are forgotten by God, we are forgotten by the rulers, and we are forgotten by opposition and by all those who have any relation to the levels of pensions. " - This is no good at all - a very large part of the Bulgarian people. 150 thousand people, how many pensioners have become, to have such a feeling of being forgotten by God and the government. That's why I'm glad the discussion started with our proposal, but I think she's going in the wrong direction. Here from this tribune we started blaming ourselves who had offered what, who had not, and we had to unite around one thing that the pensioners in Bulgaria were miserable and did not receive good pensions. I told you yesterday the exact statistics of how much they live below the poverty line, how much they receive a minimum pension, I will not repeat these things, but the situation of the Bulgarian pensioners is tragic. There is no way that your minimum pension in Bulgaria will be 219 BGN and your medicines will cost 200 BGN.! How does anyone even think that in this country these people can live, and these people have made their contribution to building this country, as what we have now is thanks to them, and not because of what we have been doing for 30 years and are spilling this country. So I really wanted to unite, not split up on the pension issue. However, I can't help but remind you of some things in this tribune. First, GERB is managing 10 years, and nothing for pensioners! Nothing but an increase in art. 100 of the Social Security Code. This is the normal update of pensions, which should reflect inflation and the increase in average income and its impact on pensions equally. You do know that this increase is 2.5 times 3%, and for the first time in many years, in 10 years, it is now 5.7%? I can't help but remind you that you had a minister of finance named Simeon Djankov, who you gave up a little later, but I'll tell you what he did for the pension system. He, for example, for 3 years in the first term of office Borisov 1 did not comply with the Bulgarian legislation and in no way did he apply art. 100 of the CSR without canceling it, so you ignored this text from the Code, which would have given an increase [[Replication of the National Representative Svetlana Angelova]] the pensions not very much, 2 times 3%, but............. 3 or 4 years of 2 years.. 3%.................................................................................... [[Relations of the National Representative Svetlana Angelova.]] You have no answer to that question, and you have no excuse. Perhaps in the next term you should have gone out and said: "We apologize to the Bulgarian people, to the Bulgarian pensioners that we violated the Bulgarian legislation and did not apply art. 100 CSR. We apologize that they will not have an increase and we deprived them of a 15% increase in pensions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u129	It's an extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u130	Yeah, if there's a chance to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u131	Please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u132	At the previous point we talked about how many highways have built GERB, and BSP, not BSP, and the Triple Coalition built 30 km highways. This is Dr. Ademov, he was then Chairman of the Committee on Labour and Social Policy and knows what BSP could do for example? He could have built highways much more than GERB, and not by European funds, but by national means, but then the government's policy was to increase pensions, i.e., care for people, to have people walking on these highways. Not to have highways, but to have retired people with no money to put gas in their car and take the highways. You may have a smile on your face, but that's the living truth. Highways were being built and pensions increased. Smallly from now on, and now highways are being built, and there is no increase in the pensions of Bulgarian pensioners. I'm not going in that direction because I wish we wouldn't confront each other about it, but admit that we were wrong and go in the direction of solving the problem of the pensioners. I'll say two words about the United Patriarchs. No, we need to measure our proposals... who offered 300 BGN, who offered 500 BGN. The fact is, you offered 300 leva. And you didn't keep that as a promise. I understand why that is, but you keep saying how great you are and how many things you've done. The honest attitude towards the Bulgarian pensioners is to step out of this tribune and say: see, we are willing to become 300 BGN. the minimum pension, we are willing to increase all pensions, but our big coalition partner has another policy and we cannot do it. More than once, your representative from this tribune said: "If we were 50, we would have achieved more success, but now we are 30 or how many. Therefore, these are the amounts of pensions that we manage to negotiate. " - This is the honest attitude towards the Bulgarian pensioner. Not to say: "We offered 500 BGN, and you did not vote or what you are! " - Everyone can find a reason and say how great he is and the other has done nothing for him. Again, I believe in the true intentions for the good of the Bulgarian pensioner. I believe in GERB's sincere intentions, but come on offer something, gentlemen of the government. Let's offer something for those pensioners, other than two and a half percent. Do you understand that these people are half-united and are waiting for your proposals? They vote for you in the hope that you will do something and you will vote for nothing! I'm sorry for the cynicism I'm about to take from this tribune, but I have a feeling you're waiting for most of the pensioners to die and the others who are now retiring naturally to... [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u133	You're talking nonsense!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u134	No, I'm not talking nonsense. That's what you're waiting for. I'm sorry. That's what you're waiting for, Mrs. Atanasova. If you want to replicate me, come here and do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u135	Don't engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u136	And Comrade Gurnevsky should do the same thing. [[GERB lines.]] I expect suggestions from you, not to come and tell me I'm talking nonsense from the stands. Not to tell me, the proposal of the Bulgarian Socialist Party for the recalculation of pensions how it cannot happen because we cannot update the budget. So, for some planes, we can update the budget, and for some pensions we can't!? We cannot update the budget when it concerns two and a half million Bulgarian people, and we can update the budget when we defend foreign interests!? Please give me a line. Get up here and what you're calling him from place, come and say: the BSP proposal is stupid, it can't be done, but we offer a-what you are. Because the other is demagogy. Thank you for listening. Again, I expect your proposals. Leave it to ours. It's obvious you won't accept it. Mr. Gurnevski, instead of waving with your hands, come, but don't talk nonsense from the stand, but tell me: I suggest that GERB make the pensions of the Bulgarian pensioners by 2% more, 10% more, live a little better. Because you're okay, Mr. Gurnevsky. The others are not well. The pensioners are not! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u137	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Are there any lines to the statement? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u138	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, I take the floor because a lot of false things have just been said, many speculations, manipulations against Bulgarian citizens. You have a very short memory, Mr. Gokov In 2014, under the so-called Swiss rule, when you were ruling, from 1 July 2014 you increased the income of Bulgarian pensioners by 2.4%. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Check it out. The fact that there is a lag in the incomes of pensioners who have retired in the years back and now, who are about to retire and who have recently retired, is not the fault of a political party GERB and the governance of this government. You obviously don't know the law. Even with the adoption of the Social Security Code, an important element is laid down in the retirement formula, namely that in calculating the pension for each person the average monthly social security income is taken for 12 months before the date of granting the pension itself. This rule relates to the fact that the person is ensured that he participates in the formation of an average monthly insurance income. The Bulgarian pension system is built so that each insured person has its own contribution and not all have the same contribution and equal income. You are showing a lack of knowledge of the legislation and there is no way that what you are proposing will happen because we are automatically going into a deficit of the Bulgarian pension system.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Are there any other lines to the speech of the National Representative Georgi Gokov? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Mr. Gyokov, you have the floor for the duvet, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u140	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Angelova, perhaps in your eyes, but only in your eyes, perhaps a few of your colleagues, seem false the things I said and that I manipulate people, but you didn't say what was false of what I said. I will immediately agree if you say: this is what you said and quoted, is not true. Isn't it true that a million and 300,000 people live below the poverty line, get pensions below the poverty line, and live with that money? Is that not true? Isn't it true that Bulgarian pensioners are miserable and can't live because of you because you keep their pensions at zero? [[GERB lines.]] I don't want to go back in time and still measure who suggested what. Mrs. Angelova, you're being insolent. It is brazen to say that 2013 2014 the government of Oresharski restored art. 100 of the Social Security Code and started updating pensions, of course, by 2.7% since 2014, and to forget that before that Simeon Djankov did not apply this rule for three years. It's a shame, Mrs. Angelova, it's insolence! It's brazen to say that. You have to admit that. It wasn't GERB's fault. Who's to blame? It must be the Triple Coalition's fault, which, by the way, recalculated pensions and increased them by about 130%. It must have been the government's fault before November 10th that pensions were good and people lived. And GERB that manages 10 years is not guilty?! It GERB is not guilty of anything. GERB builds highways, keeps pensions low, but it is not guilty of anything. For nothing negative in the state there is no fault GERB. It's all from the opposition or the Triple Coalition, or before November 10th. I don't know the law!? You've grown a little strong, but okay, I don't know the law. Give us a lecture, you come out, or Dr. Ademov will assist us in giving you a hearing to explain the legislation, how it does not allow the pensions of Bulgarian citizens to increase. And I hope from this lecture to understand the Bulgarian citizens why they do not increase their pensions. For example, I ask you: how the Triple Coalition managed to make changes to the Social Insurance Code recalculating pensions, and now we, by offering this legislation, can you support it and... [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u141	You recalculate them, but we pay them!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u142	What are you paying for? You're giving money out of the back of the jeep? What are you paying for?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u143	Mr. Gokov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u144	Don't replicate me in this form, because I'll put you where you need to be. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u145	Mr. Gokov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u146	Yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u147	Stay calm. Time... [[Loud noise and lines]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u148	What are you doing?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u149	Time's up. I'm sorry. That's what the reaction is in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u150	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u151	Mr. Chairman, Stanislav Ivanov threatens me from the first place.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u152	I'll pay attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u153	Pay attention to him!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u154	Order, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u155	I'm just gonna say one more sentence. [[(Strength noise and lines from GERB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u156	Mr. Gokov, there's no way we're running out of time! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u157	Well, when I'm interrupted, there's no way. Okay. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u158	That was 58 seconds. Thank you for understanding. Any other speeches? The way you're leading it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u159	Dear Mr. Chairman, this is the second time I've had to get up today, not by you. Firstly, all these rules, which have been established under the Rules of the National Assembly for time, the duration of speeches, I think, apply to all. I don't think you should give Mr. Gokov any tolerance, however much he wants to shine in the last months before the elections. Secondly, I ask you, for the second time, presiding today at the National Assembly meeting to restrict the rude, obscene, obnoxious, street language in this Meeting of this tribune. Where would he put what, who, what he would do, who would give what from? I do not think, Mr. Chairman, that this is how we show the authority of this National Assembly to the Bulgarian citizens. The lie that extends from here is now the choice of every MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u160	Thank you, Mr. Manev. In the manner of conduct, Mr. Gokov? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u161	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman, personally to you. Please take out the time I delayed in my speech. To say how much longer it was than what it was supposed to be, and whether the lines that were in place did not prevent that time from being extended, first. Secondly, how can I tell you, do not give the floor in procedures to people who do not know what to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u162	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u163	In this regard, I also ask you, from the record, to remove all my words that have been insulting or insulting someone, and to punish me if that is what I have done. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u164	We'll decide, of course, if there are such words. I didn't take any part in this procedure. It seems to me the timing is as good as it gets. Here you are, Mr. Gurnevsky. You asked for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u165	Didn't he say anything?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u166	Help me if he's spoken. Mr. Gurnevsky, do you have a statement on this bill in the framework of yesterday?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u168	Yeah. Then I can't give you the floor. Sorry if you've spoken.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u169	I didn't speak on that one.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u170	They're giving me a sign that there's no obstacle. Please, you have the floor. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u171	Calm down, guys. Calm down a little bit. Take an example from the chairman. Colleagues, when we talk about one of the most important topics about pensions, we must realize that, first of all, there is an established order, here explained it to you Dr. Ademov, in which he cannot, in these rules, everyone to confuse. Secondly, here we need to know why the worst or perhaps one of the countries in which the worst pensioners live is the start with which Bulgaria started during the transition, unlike the other Eastern countries. I'll speak with your words. Yesterday I told you what he explained to the people, and he was honored, the former Secretary of the Central Committee of the BCP, that our party was oriented after the bankruptcy in 1989, the state towards capitalism. A depraved capitalism was created that drove away 2 million young people. I will quote a statement from Stanko Todorov's son from May 22, 2019 in a newspaper "24 hours" which says: "The mode of the transition has been preceded before his launch, that is, when Mr. Gokov here says that we have plundered the state during these 20 years, he is right who has looted the state. On the 11th of July, the day before yesterday, in a cult nationwide broadcast that is being watched from all over Bulgaria, your MP said, I quote precisely that there is still no misunderstanding that there are forces in this country that are pulling strings and who do not want to do an analysis of the transition. He says directly: When it comes to liberalism, freedom of personality, the free movement of goods, people and services, this was a convenient pretext for groups of people of the Bulgarian Communist Nomenclature and the secret services to dismantle the state and plunder the so-called general property created by blood and sweat during these 45 years by the people and led to today's oligarchic governance. These are the words of Professor Hristov, who is in the Chamber. Do him an honor, and I congratulate him for telling you the truth. He can give you a lecture on the transition, about the looting. It's the truth! From there on, 20 years ago, which looted this nomenclature and these services, 10 years ago GERB found a country full of oligarchic governance when they became attempts to impose and the economic power to turn into political. Ten years of treatment! Compared to 2014 in social activity, if you look at the pay of 300 BGN. minimum wage is now 600 BGN, the average salary of 600 BGN. is BGN 1200 at the end of the term of office will become BGN 1,300 at the end of the term of office. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Look at your numbers! Mr. Gokov, the social work of 180 million for disabled people is 450 million this year. Three times has jumped the development of the social sphere. By the end of the term, things will be back on track. There's a proposal. We have two ways to solve these problems in the social sphere. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria On the subject!]] We're talking about her today, not just pensions. One way is for GERB to continue to manage three more mandates and as I showed you how the economy in the management of GERB is going, after 10 years Bulgaria will reach above the average level of developed European countries. This is the only time in a developed economy to fill, figuratively speaking, the plate and have something to give away, i.e. GERB to continue to manage. It is no reason for the people to choose GERB for 10 years. Whatever you call them here since morning I've been listening to your nonsense, but they don't choose you, they choose GERB! How much worse do you have to be than GERB if you don't get elected?! There's a second way and he's more radical, he's one. Since October, all social expenditures, people's pay, could be tripled. It has become obvious here that two factions have formed in your party and that is good. There are idealists between you, there are honest people. I know a lot of people like that. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" On the topic. "]] This is the topic: the proposal to increase pensions. This group of people I call socialists for social solidarity. Not justice, because you can only be solidarity, fair are those who govern and develop, but this will be a good way out for part of your party. The other group that formed, these are actually communist criminal capitalists. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here are the two factions. Now I suggest: instead of dealing with bullshit people, get together at a nice congress, you have a leader unite with which to make a decision to offer to the socialist communists capitalists to return half of what was seized in this transition, which Mr. Hristov said, and when you return half of what was seized, since October the pensions and salaries will jump three times more. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u172	Mr. Gurnevsky, you're drifting off the subject. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u173	Do this and people will recognize you and choose you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u174	Are there lines? Mr. Hristov and Mr. Gökov. First, the professor who was quoted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u175	One of your group quoted Marx the other day, and today Mr. Gurnevsky is quoting me. [[Noise and lines. Laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] In the same interview that you quoted, which shows that GERB keep notes when I speak, I had said something else. I was told I had a suspicion of what a pathetic situation you brought this country into, but now I know it's hopeless. I'm fixing it, Mr. Gurnevsky. I see that the training process is going well, and I think that if this Parliament passes the term and you listen to me more often, you might as well take and dig. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u176	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Mr. Gokov, second line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u177	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gurnevsky, I feel obliged to answer you because you have quoted my names several times. First of all, you said everyone can't get the order wrong. Wait, you're wrong about the order. The order in this country, the legislation, is determined by the National Assembly, that is, we are the people who determine the order, so there is no way to confuse it. The fact that you sometimes confuse order with the laws we adopt is a slightly different matter. Thirty years of transition, robbery. This is not what I say, the whole Bulgarian people say. However, from these 30 years a third of the time.. 10 years, he manages GERB. If you're such a big deal, why didn't you fix this country? Ten years is such a big period that you can't apologize to a Triple Coalition for what it was like before November 10th. Ten years?! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] People fix their countries in much less time in a year, two, three, for one term. You don't have three terms?! You want an analysis of the transition. Who's gonna do this analysis, you?! Will this analysis tell you how some people from the government got rich? Because I don't think if you do, you'll do that analysis. Will he write about Sujuka there, I don't know?! The only thing I agree with your statement is that the Bulgarians with blood and sweat built this country, and now it is to those who built the state, your attitude towards them is such that you increase their pensions by 5 BGN. monthly. Here you say that if he manages GERB another three terms, the situation will be fixed. A colleague and I have spoken here and there is a procedural proposal to vote on three more GERB mandates ahead and to fix the state. But with that 3% growth you give it every year in the economy, I don't know how far you're gonna go. Three percent is funny! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We're not going to be on our feet anytime soon. We're not going to be on our feet.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u178	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Is there a third line? No. Here you go, Mr. Gurnevsky. Then there was a statement by Mr. Simeonov and Mr. Shopov. You have the floor, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u179	Mr. Christov, just one sentence. From what I've heard from you, there's no difference between Marx and you. [[(Noise and lines. Announcements from BSP for Bulgaria: Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, ……]] Mr. Gokov, who will do the analysis? Mr. Hristov did it on that TV magnificently and clearly. I've just read you the analysis of who looted the country. If you want, however, a little more specific, here in the front row I see Mrs. Ninova, ask her how foreign trading companies are being looted. She will explain to you brilliantly how the Plovdiv Fair was looted. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You're talking about the oligarchs. Let's see which oligarchs are in custody with the castles and yachts, planes, ships, islands. They've been looking for them all over Europe and they've been picked up. How is it that all of these oligarchs are related to the former nomenclature and to the secret services, as Mr. Hristov says. The analysis is clear. If you want the particulars of how a state is bankrupt, ask Mr. Gechev, there are no problems, because as many times BSP has come to power, the state has gone bankrupt. Wherever BSP grass comes, it doesn't grow after it. Therefore, it takes another 10 years and all of this will be destroyed as a vicious practice for 70 years of stealing and dealing! Blood and sweat, you said. How much blood have you shed on this people and you have a shame to speak here from this tribune! So the analysis is done, it is done by your party. I read you the names, and now those who were direct directors and performers of the main role in this analysis and have snatched from the Bulgarian people, ask them, they will explain how this happened.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u180	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. Mr. Simeonov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u181	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear importers of the BSP Bill, once again you impress me with the way you approach another serious issue which, of course, has to be resolved sooner or later and will be resolved. The way you approach me, I get the impression that you're only doing it to attract as much media attention as possible, putting in a certain portion of scandal, noise, pathaclama, but it seems that your goal is not to achieve what you set out in the Bill. If you had a serious goal to achieve it and you didn't have the right majority, you would have to seek assistance, supporters, understanding your thesis and possibly willingness for some discount in order to achieve what you set your goal. In other words, if I may return the thought of that great Bulgarian politician Andrey Lyapchev from the 20s, who said that things are being achieved. You're a bit of a coup d'état. I don't know, maybe it's some tradition established by your party. That's how you drive it, start with your dick, and from there to your understanding, but that's your problem. In this way, you will find it difficult to achieve success in Bulgaria's legislation in this National Assembly. This is my advice and evaluation. I'm telling you, once, as an old man, our villages are 10 km from each other and, the second time, I'm telling you, as an older man. Write it down! [[Noise and lines.]] I'll return the story to 300 leva because Mr. Gokov started it here again. These 300 BGN, Mr. Gokov, Mrs. Ninova, would have been true from July 2017, if you had supported our proposal from December 2016, when the budget was voted. And then you were also not particularly consistent. Once again, if you would like to receive support, you should not allow chaotic, inaccurate shooting across the entire political spectrum, what Mrs. Lecheva did yesterday. Extremely inaccurate shooting, extremely inaccurate! You should not allow statements by Mr. Gokov in which to assess who voted, who did not vote, especially when he did not get acquainted with the facts. However, there are essentially two undisputed facts. We're already going through the serious analysis of your bill. Two indisputable, absolutely indisputable and serious facts. The first is that pensions in Bulgaria are extremely low. Embarrassingly, insultingly low against the backdrop of pensions in Albania, Macedonia, Romania, Serbia, and not to mention Greece. Embarrassing and insultingly low! The lowest pension in these countries is 185 euros, in Bulgaria at the moment the lowest is 200 BGN. And when we said about the 200 and the 300 leva once again, Mr. Gokov, because I once explained in detail to you, but perhaps you were not in the Chamber: how it came to be that the election promises of the United Patriarchs.......................... The minimum pension could not be realised? They couldn't, Mr. Gokov, because the voter chose a proportion in the ruling coalition 1 to 3.6 and when you are the unit, you cannot impose on the larger party to change its beliefs, principles or economic understandings. On the contrary, some consensus must be sought, some intersection. And that's what we did, achieving 200 leva. minimum pension at the beginning of the term of office. No governance has ever increased pensions at the beginning of the mandate. Don't underestimate that fact! We have made a very serious effort, almost fought with the finance minister for these 200 levs. in the negotiation period. But the other alternative, do you know what it was? If we hadn't gotten to that 200 leva. A crosspoint between the Programme of the United Patriarchs and the Programme of GERB, we had to go again in elections. That's what we couldn't afford because we're patriots! Because it is not important for us to be in power, but to do something for our country, for Bulgaria. [[Radio in BSP for Bulgaria.]] And what we were able to do was to keep her from throwing herself into chaos and possible risk of managing BSP and DPS if we had gone to the next election. That's why we agreed and achieved 200 leva. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yeah, it's not much, yeah, it's nothing, but it's an increase in the pension to 824 thousand. 300 people. Is that too much? 824,000 pensioners. That's what they are. Why do you keep beating up? Yeah, not every election promise can be fulfilled when you're the little partner in a coalition. That's the truth. There's nothing else. And no one has given up on their commitments and promises. For this reason, precisely because we do not give up our beliefs and promises, we will support your bill at first reading. I am talking about the National Front for Salvation of Bulgaria. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I cannot be held responsible for the behavior of my fellow Members. This was our election promise and we will support it, but not to liquidate, to destroy Bulgaria budgeted, as you suggest, because with this 550 million. lv. In September, December, if we multiply them, there are about 2 billion. lv. per year. With two billion a year of unforeseen costs, we'll just ruin the budget from there. We're not gonna let that happen. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But we will support to open the discussion and try again to achieve a change in the minimum pensions and overall in the pension model with our larger partners GERB, as well as with the other colleagues in the Chamber. When you are going to achieve some political goal, I advise you again as brother, choose your means and methods. Choose them! The tools are very important. Hecheva cannot be your tool. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u182	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Are there any lines? I don't see any requests. Mr. Shopov, you asked for the floor. Here you go. Are there any who wish to speak from other parliamentary groups to observe order? I can't see. Mr. Shopov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, there is little time left for the group. I'm sorry, but it's very sad to hear us blame each other, how we curse each other, how we hate each other... They, masters, have achieved their goal of staying here, to blame ourselves, to hate each other and nowhere! So, weren't the communists here, were they different governments, wasn't it Videnov, this one, that one, some prime minister? Dear colleagues, this is the case in a colonised country that has no sovereignty, where everything is defined from the outside. A colonial scheme has been made and the social sphere is part of this scheme. Inevitably. Here I'll understand a few people - three-four from the BSP, one of them standing in the front row. Two or three people will understand me, with one or two less, than GERB, I look at some of them. There's a man who understands me, he's not here right now, from the will. From the United Patriarchs, I think no one! [[Radio.]] From the DPS, from those standing here right now, there are people who aren't in the room who know exactly what I'm talking about. DPS doesn't need to understand me, they don't care about anything in this country, they are a Turkish nationalist party in Bulgaria [[blowing noise and lines from DPS]] And what's bad...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u184	Mr. Shopov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u185	...is happening here, it's their plus. It's their goal to make it worse. [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, Mrs. Ninova, about pensions. Last year, if anyone noticed from you, in December a small message appeared, it spread on the pages of the newspapers and televisions, by the way, what a profit the banks had made. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. lv. net profit by the end of November? The message appeared in December. Did either of you ask yourself what that means? Whose banks are these? Where did that money go? In some families in Rome, Berlin and Tokyo, in Paris, Athens and other capitals. And these families live and waste because this market is foreign. That money went there. Not to mention what comes out of the big chain stores that are foreign. It's the same logic. Not to mention the phones we all keep in our pockets: 300 million. lv. A year's worth of profit! Not to mention insurance companies: 200 lv.! Not to mention the fuels that are also foreign! From the mining industry, the gold that is extracted from the bowels of Bulgaria and which we talk so much about from the Ataka, but who cares? We get petty pennies for this wealth. We're fading gold! We're fading thirsty! This is where you have to look for the reasons? And isn't this a lantag here? I want it to be a real parliament, a Bulgarian authentic sovereign, in which to make decisions about what to eat, what to drink, how to live, what to produce, if we have high technology, if we have a nuclear power plant, will the pipes pass from which we would now take 500 million. The dollar? [[Radio.]] Yeah, the pipes, 500 million. The dollar a year was the transit fee, Mr. Simeonov! No more, no less! That would have been a fact. [[Heckling]] That would be the education money, that would be the health money, the pensions we're talking about. That's the logic of things. I conclude with the fact that there is little time left, I would speak for a long time, who wants the Sunday school of Siderov, there will be explained to him. Although some of you come to these conclusions, these truths, but it is a matter of courage to stand up to them, to say no! Or say yes when they have to! To tell the FCs tomorrow, because I know what kind of bills you're making. Tomorrow you don't have to come in a sufficient number of MPs or get out of plenary because you're afraid of pissing off your masters, your superiors, who are your own! Because logic is, as in all historical times: there are hostages in the subservient. There for the good behavior of the chiefs, kings, kings! There's such a logic here. You know better than that. And talk nonsense, and roll, and continue to hate each other, the Bulgarians... We here in the Bulgarian political space have only one opponent, one enemy. All the other parties are Bulgarian good or bad!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u186	Mr. Shopov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u187	Don't hate each other, name things by their real names, figure out where we are at last, because where are we? Thirty years of liberal democracy, right? Isn't that what we changed the hateful communism with? So, did we dig? We're in NATO, right? We're in the European Union. And all the spells and promises were that when we entered NATO and the European Union, everything would be fine and we would live on honey and butter. Is that right? And why is there corruption at the moment? This model appears to be generating corruption. And it's a hell of a corruption! And a gray economy. Isn't it a gray economy to give Kremikovtsi for 1 lev? [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u188	Mr. Shopov...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u189	Giving up your airline for the price of an apartment? Or should I then list examples of one government asset or another? So how can we Bulgarians be rich?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u190	Mr. Shopov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u191	Yes, thank you. Colleagues, we're still on a currency board, notice! We have regulations, we have a 2% balance of payments deficit, which we should not exceed, but now with the fighters tomorrow we will exceed it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u192	Time's up, Mr. Shopov. We understand your statement. Thank you. Are there any lines?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u193	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u194	Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u195	Mr. Chairman, you have admitted twice, although you have felt dissatisfaction with our group, insulting words to the most Bulgarian party in this Parliament! [[Radio and lines from OP.]] If you are not going to perform your duties as chairman, please immediately clear this place, because it is very clear that you are part of the same group of morons! [[Loud noise and lines from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u196	Mr. Hamid...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u197	Get me out of here!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u198	No, I will not succumb to your provocation. If there is any discontent that you have seen that I have reacted to and rightly noted, let us put it to discussion where it belongs. If you have the appropriate notes, we will review the protocols and take appropriate measures. I share your anger, but it's not the way you expressed it. It was a procedure in the manner of conduct. Are there any lines to Mr. Shopov's statement? There are no lines. Please come in for the next speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u199	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll try to lower the emotional level a little bit and get back to the subject. What does our parliamentary group think about the bill we are looking at? This bill proposes that employment pensions allocated by 31 December 2016, i.e. by the end of 2016, should be recalculated from 1 September this year, with the individual figure multiplied by the country's average monthly insurance income for 2015. It is also intended to be recalculated if this is more favourable to the person. We have carefully examined both the proposal and the opinions on the Bill, which I assume all those who are familiar with the Bill and the opinions know that these opinions are negative. And we're very much referring to them. The country's monthly insurance income for 2015 amounts to BGN 726. And 40. On the basis of this amount, pensions have been allocated, which were granted in January 2016. Immediately after the end of January 2016, pensions that have been granted have already been allocated, calculated and formed at a higher social security income, which means that in the Bill, which requires recalculation of pensions that are by the end of 2016, there is a large part, their exact number is 344 thousand, which will not be recalculated. This bill claims equality between all individuals who will retire, and yet, at the very first moment, 344 thousand pensions for employment will not be included. So that's over 23% of all those who get pensions. In practice, when recalculating the proposed way in the Bill, with the indicated insurance income, the increase will receive about 1 million. 285 thousand. pensioners, or that's about 75 percent of all pensions, and the size of some of them will reach even the newly set maximum amount of 1200 and will be limited by it. The average amount of pensions that receive an increase as a result of the recalculation will increase from 391, which is the amount that should now be obtained from 1 July to about 500 BGN or by about 28%. This forms, as has already been said several times, a sum of about 140 million per month, or 560 million above the planned budget only for 2019. However, this is only for 2019. This legal change, if adopted, will not have the meaning of a single act, but will be a system factor that will determine pensions, which means that according to preliminary estimates for next 2020, the DEA budget should be increased by a billion and 730 million. For 2021, by a billion and 800 more than it is now. For 2022 ..with a billion and 900. A short time ago, an analogy was made here -- there was no way for airplanes to give that kind of money, and pensions couldn't be found. I think this is an extremely incorrect comparison, because we cannot compare two activities - one related to national security and the other - in the social sphere. Not to mention that one is a one-off act, and the other is a systematic legal change. In principle, the Bill does not indicate where or how these funds can be taken or provided for or any compensatory mechanisms. Furthermore, let us recall that the state budget, the budget of the state social security and the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund are adopted by the National Assembly with separate laws for the corresponding budget year for each budget year, in ensuring consistency between them. That is, if we change one budget now, it means that it will not be agreed with two other budgets that were adopted a long time ago. I will repeat by which I intend to conclude that the provision of the necessary funds for this bill will affect the expenditure that is not only for this year, but is, in principle, linked to the provision of the necessary funds for the payment of the new, higher amounts of pensions and over the next four years, a minimum of four years. The recalculation of pensions, unlike the payment of so-called "Velicdentian or Christmas supplements', is in practice a long-term financial commitment to ensure this funding, we need to be prepared. It's clear to everyone, and I guess there's no one in this room who doesn't want his parents to take better pensions and be better insured. However, at the end of the day, let's see what the real possibilities of the budget are, because everything that is spoken in a way that we can do, to do what is impossible for the state budget, is called populism. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u200	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Are there any lines? I won't. For speech there is the word of the people representative Dragomir Stoinev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I thank my colleague just now for introducing us to the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Of course, we had read it before. We can't help but be grateful to our ruling colleagues, I repeat, from the ruling coalition, because part of this coalition, such as NFSB, will support us. For the rest of my fellow Patriots... Oh, are you going to back us up, too? Thank you, Mr. Shopov. ... After all, as part of the coalition, you can also contribute to this change that you want, and I am convinced that we can also support you. But, colleagues, let's get back to the debate, which is key because there were a lot of sparks from Mr. Gurnevsky, which, of course, we can't accept. Here, honourable Members, we are talking about one single thing: there is a huge injustice: for the same social contribution of a person just because the insurance income has changed, his pension is between 20 and 30% lower! We on the left want to find a solution to this injustice. Given that it has happened once before during the Triple Coalition, when they managed BSP, DPS and NDSV, there was a similar recalculation of pensions! And this gives a beneficial effect not only on the living standards of pensioners, but also on the economy itself! [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] After all, pensioners are not the biggest consumers, and from now on we can 20% of those supposedly costs, as you count for costs for us these are investment in people, they return to the state budget because they are the first ones to go to pay their bills! I don't understand why this is a problem for you. Then let's not increase anything! What do they need pensions for, anyway?! Then let the treasury be full, all the more so from morning to night, for a year until a few months ago we were told about a huge, huge surplus! We are enjoying such an excess of this is not a coincidence that we wanted this surplus here to be able to be distributed in the Bulgarian Parliament, as it was distributed a long time ago. It's the only transparent way. You rulers have refused to distribute it in the dark. That's the difference between you and us. You say, "We give many Christmas and Easter supplements." I agree, colleagues. I won't say that we started this good initiative. But there was a period when they were giving 150 levs. To every retired man! Repeat, 150 BGN. Every single pensioner's bonus! There's nothing wrong with that. And instead of finding the way to solve these problems, we go back to the past, the insults begin. This is an injustice to which we must find the solution! The model that started in 2000. Come on, you don't have to talk about the burden, it's over 43, 45%! Then the reduction of social security contributions began! You from GERB were the ones who most condemned this increase! Now it's already happening once twice. If you'd listened to us seven or eight years ago, there wouldn't be such a problem now! All right, you need time to see, but eventually you realize you're going the right way! Now, however, what I am telling you is extremely necessary! Do not make the mistake, for example, in time to resolve this problem again. Why? Because, colleagues, it's 2021, big costs are coming. If we have to start this debate, we also have the question: what happened to the second pillar? Here none of the government dares to take this topic and speak, but it is extremely important! [[(Comments from GERB:]] We are waiting for you, if you are statesmen, to give a tone when we will discuss this problem! But when it comes to injustice, [[GERB lines]] When some people have retired before 2000, I end up with one sentence, and those who have retired two years ago, I am talking about a contribution without the insurance income, it is not fair that the difference in pension is between BGN 200 and 250.! This is what we on the left want to solve problems, not postpone them, as you have always done so far! And today, with the toll system, you proved it. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-18.u202	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Time's up. Are there any lines? I don't see any line requests. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. Please, the Quaestors, invite the Members of the National Assembly to vote. We are voting for a bill supplementing the Social Security Code, No 954-01-38, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 12 June 2019. Vote 172 MPs: 76 against 15, abstention 81. The offer is not accepted. Members of Parliament, I will read the Parliamentary Control Communication to be held tomorrow, on 19 July 2019, on Friday: First we will hold discussions on the questions of the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Mihailov, Anelia Klisarova, Ilian Timchev, Valentina Naydenova, Ivan Ibrishimov and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on the policy of the Ministry of Health regarding the personnel security with medical specialists. Next are questions and questions: 1. Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev will answer one question from the MP Anton Kutev. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will answer two questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; and Nikolay Tsonkov. 3. The Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer nine questions from the MPs Georgi Mihailov; Dzhevdet Chakarov; Kolyo Milev; Ivan Ibrishimov; Atanas Kostadinov and Ilian Timchev; Valentina Naydenova, two questions; and Georgi Gokov. 4. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer eighteen questions from the MPs Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov; Lubomir Bonev; Sevim Ali; Georgi Yordanov; Kolyo Milev; Alexander Nenkov and Alexander Ivanov 5. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer four questions from the MPs Violeta Jeleva; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; and Nadya Klisurska and Georgi Stoilov two questions. 6. The Minister of Justice Danail Kirilov will answer a question from the MP Nadia Klisurska. 7. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva will answer six questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova two questions; Vasil Antonov; Rumen Georgiev; Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; Georgi Stoilov and Svetla Bachvarova; and one question from the MP Kristian Vigenin. 8. The Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will answer two questions from the MPs Boris Yachev; and Ivan Valkov. 9. Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will answer a question from the National Representative Nikola Dinkov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev of a question with written answer from the MPs Nadia Klisurska and Violeta Zheleva. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, Interior Minister Mladen Marinov and Culture Minister Boyl Banov will not participate. Due to the use of paid annual leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov and the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will not participate. [[Declarations with MPs Vassil Antonov and Nona Yotova.]] I declare that the next regular meeting will take place on 19 July 2019, Friday, at 9.00 hours. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
