ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will present to you a draft programme for the work of the National Assembly on 31 July 2019: "1." Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Chemical Weapons Ban Act and on the control of toxic chemicals and their precursors. The Council of Ministers was introduced on 28 June 2019. It was adopted on the first vote on 17 July 2019. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 22 May 2019. He was accepted in the first vote on 5 June 2019. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Word Organization of Master Pharmacists. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 9 May 2019. He was accepted in the first vote on 19 June 2019. 4. Draft decision to award a state monetary prize for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 25 July 2019. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Physical Education and Sports. Importers are Stefan Apostolov, Galya Zaharieva, Vladimir Valev and Valentin Milushev on 19 April 2019. He was accepted on the first vote on 25 July 2019. 6. Parliamentary control. Please vote. They voted 176 MPs: 140, none, abstention 36. The motion is accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 24 July 2019 to 30 July 2019: A bill to amend the Penal Code. The importer is Emil Dimitrov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. A bill to supplement the Health Act. The importer is Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. It's been assigned to the Health Committee. Draft Law amending the Law on the Administrative and Territorial Device of the Republic of Bulgaria. The importer is Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. It has also been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on People's Chitalishtes. The importer is Kristina Sidorova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the European Investment Bank and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on a contribution to the Fund of the Economic Sustainability Initiative. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Foreign Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Legal Affairs. Project for a decision to award a state monetary prize for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Education and Science. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Family Aid Act for Children. The importer is Krastina Taskova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. The importer is Dora Hristova and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. A bill to amend and supplement the Labour Code. The importer is Krastina Taskova. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Project for a decision to provide funds and an organization for the free exchange of personal documents of the citizens affected by the breach in the information systems of the National Revenue Agency. The importer is Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. A bill amending the Law on Stock Exchanges and Trades. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Report on the Commission's activities for public oversight of registered auditors in 2018. The Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors is the importer. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Messages: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria has, by its order, authorised the dispatch of a military ship with state weapons and crew of soldiers to participate in a NATO maritime security operation in the Mediterranean in the teaching of the Navy of the Republic of Turkey and training by ship of the Israeli Navy. The total sailing time is planned from 19 October to 22 November 2019, including the dates of transition. During the period from 8 August to 28 August 2019, a rotational training will take place in the US forces joint training centres in Germany. In the preparation will take part formations from the Land Forces and 68th Brigade "Special Forces" with personnel soldiers with state weapons, equipment and equipment. The preparations are carried out in the implementation of the Plan for joint Bulgarian-American training and training in the country and abroad in 2019 and are not related to the conduct of military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the implementation of activities to prevent military actions conducted by other States or organizations, armed forces. In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces by its order has authorised the passage through the territorial sea, the non-military residence in the inland waters of the Republic of Bulgaria and the visit of the port of Varna between 7 and 10 August 2019 including a training vessel of the members of the Marine Forces of the Hellenic Republic with cadets of the Ford. The visit of the ship is of a routine nature and is related to the realization of learning summer swimming, which is organized annually in the aquatorials of the Mediterranean and the Black Sea in order to improve the preparation and acquisition of practical skills by the cadets. The notifications were received on 25 and 26 July 2019 respectively, with entry No 903-09-40, entry No 903-09-41 and entry No 903-09-42. They were given to the Defence Committee. The National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 22 June 2019 until 21 July 2019 and Protocol No 29 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 23 July 2019 at which the Report was reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Information was received from the National Statistical Institute on key indicators for the development of the economy in the Republic of Bulgaria on 5 July 2019 on: R &amp; D indexes in the Section of Retail Trade, without car and motorcycle trading in May 2019; Industrial Production Indexes in May 2019; Construction Production Indexes in May 2019; Inflations and Indexes for Consumer Prices in June 2019; Economic Conjuncture.July 2019; Indexes of producer prices in the domestic and international market in the industry. The materials are available to the MPs in the National Assembly Library. Moving on to point one: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PROHIBITION OF CHEMIC ARMOURS AND FOR CONTROL OF TOXIC CHEMIC HYMICAL INGREDIENTS AND THEIR PRECURSORS. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u2	Colleagues, I'll first ask for your attention for admission to the court. I propose on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of our Rules to be admitted to the Chamber by the Ministry of Economy: Lachezar Borisov
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u3	Please vote on the procedure so made for admission. Vote 137 MPs: 134, no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u4	This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Law on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons for the Control of Toxic Chemical Substances and Their Aggregation and Supplements to the Act on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons for the Control of Toxic Chemicals. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u5	And § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u6	Under § 1, there is a proposal from the National Representative Rumen Gechev, which is supported. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26 the following 1. The creation of para. 1: The transfer of a person in violation of Article 1 (1) shall be carried out in accordance with Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. 10, para. 7 or 8, a fine of 5000 to 10 000 BGN is imposed. or a penalty of 15 000 to 25 000 BGN 2. So far, text becomes para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u7	Paragraph 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u8	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... The additional provision shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. The name is amended as follows: 2. Paragraph 1a is inserted: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way. Applications and declarations under this law shall be submitted to the Interdepartmental Commission stamped with the stamp of the natural or legal person concerned registered
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u9	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, the version of § 1 of the Commission Report and the version of § 2 of the Commission Report. Vote 128 MPs: for 107, there is no objection, abstention 21. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u10	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. According to § 3 there is a proposal from the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Daniela Saveklieva and Dimitar Boychev, made in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In the Law on export control of defence products and dual-use products (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 2 shall be added at the end except in the cases referred to in Article 2. 32, para. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 32 is In the case of temporary exports and related reports of defence-related products for the fulfilment of obligations under foreign trade contracts or repair or modernisation agreements concluded by the Ministry of Defence for the needs of the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Alinei 1 "6" shall not apply. In those cases, Regulation (EU) No 952/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 October 2013 establishing the Union Customs Code (OB, L 269/1 of 10 October 2013) shall apply.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009). 3. In § 5 of the additional provisions: a) Previous text becomes para. 1; (b) the creation of para. 2: The applications, certificates and declarations under this law shall be filed, stamped with the stamp of the natural or legal person concerned registered under the Commercial Law. The following paragraph is proposed by the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Daniela Saveklieva, Dimitar Boychev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up paragraphs 4 and 5: ............................................ Unfinished until the entry into force of this law proceedings under the Law on the Export Control of Defence-related Products and Dual-Use Products, formed by certificates for the export of defence-related products presented by the Ministry of Defence, to fulfil obligations under foreign trade contracts or repair or modernisation agreements concluded by the Ministry of Defence for the needs of the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, shall be terminated. § 5. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u11	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 3 and the newly created paragraphs 4 and 5 supported by the Commission. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u12	Statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u13	Did I miss to ask for comments? Cancel the vote. Please come in for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We agree with the proposals that are being made here, but this is about the "Transitional and Final Provisions" where there are changes in the work of the Interdepartmental Commission. My question is to the Chairman of the Assembly, Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva. It's about repairing the Su-25 aircraft, did we give up their repairs in the Avionams, as it was before the visits to Russia? Secondly, we see now that there is a possibility that the Minister of Economy will not sign the certificates for use of parts and dual-use items. Does this mean that the Su-25 repair deal in Belarus is going to happen? Since the Law cancels all procedures until its entry into force, we want to know whether this deal is 100% secured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor on the changes that have been made and, once again, note the fact that in the amendments to the "Transitional and final provisions" of some laws proposed to the Members of the National Assembly, references are made to changes to other laws which regulate very important activities in the field, as we are currently talking about, of trade in dual-purpose goods. Obviously, we have some problem here with a specific order related to the repair of Su-25 fighters. We have a specific procedure that has been established for years and in which the Ministry of Economy is a leading office that authorises, issues export certificates, imports, trade in dual-use goods, including everything relating to arms trade and such items. And now we see that an amendment is being made, with which the Ministry of Defence is beginning to play some role in this process. We have an Interdepartmental Commission doing this job. Why is it necessary to change an established procedure that only works because of a specific case? Is this how we're gonna run the country from now on? We cannot support such a proposal, moreover, that it clearly concerns some dispute that is in the Council of Ministers between ministers. There's something else I'd like to ask you. In fact, does the government have a single policy to implement, implement, including in defence and security, or does every minister act for himself where in public, where in private benefit? This particular case and the reference to the amendments to this law that we are making concerns two ministers, the differences between them? By the way, you yourself intervened, Madam President of the National Assembly, in this dispute between the two ministers. We continue to argue that, in fact, when we have acquired the state, the government, a plant that has special features for repairing military aviation, that this plant, which has been acquired for 27 million, must be used rationally. I would also like to remind you of the Prime Minister's words a few years ago that where our fighter planes take off and land, they are logical to be repaired there. What do we do now? We're setting a precedent just to solve this aircraft repair case. I would also like to say something else here that, as far as I know, the problem of issuing Su-25's repair certificates concerns both European regulations and an embargo imposed on Belarus by the European Union. We have an opinion from the Foreign Ministry on this matter. They, as far as I know, do not allow this deal either. We are talking here about something much bigger about the European directives, which we must bear in mind, to follow because they are before national legislation. That's why I appeal to you to stop running the country this way. Since there's been a mix-up between ministers...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u17	Time, Mr. Tsonkov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u18	...is not the way here to throw the hot potato into the National Assembly so that we can solve the problems of the government and of individual ministers who cannot be understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u19	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. - What's the line? Come in for a cue, Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsonkov, from the BSP group you have a chairman of a committee that you could ask him at the very least. There's no confusion. The two ministries in a working group cleared the texts themselves and proposed an option that you see at the moment and which we will soon vote on, which is uniform for both ministries. It's no big deal, it's no problem! Time is running out and if this isn't over now, there's no telling when or what penalties will be paid. There are contracts, though.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u21	Thank you, Mr. Sabanov. Second line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, there is, there is a working group, but I would like to ask something else: why did the importers and the government not propose the changes, but had to form a working group and here you should now refer to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism in the National Assembly in the case where the government needs to do its job? Apparently, the government is running away from responsibility, as always. Moreover, the government is obviously unable to even solve such a particular case. The Council of Ministers does not even think about the Bulgarian defence industry because, as I said, instead of loading a state plant, developing it and creating employment in Bulgaria for Bulgarian enterprises, we are looking for a way to load in this case a Belarusian plant. I do not think it is right and, in the end, once again, I ask: why the importers and the government have not made the necessary changes and why the Ministry of Defence has, after so many years, in which there has been little knowledge of what powers in terms of import, export, trade in dual-purpose goods and articles are now precisely when we have a particular problem, to make similar amendments to bills which even do not directly concern the main purpose, the main purpose of this law, which exists and is adopted by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. Mr. Tsonev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Here, in these proposals, once again, we face the double standards that are applied by both the National Assembly's leadership and the majority committees. It is obvious that the proposals made in Transitional and Final Provisions contradict the Law adopted at first reading. Let me just remind you that it consists of amendments to the fines. What do licensing regimes have to do with the basic proposal of the Law adopted at first reading? Nothing, of course! The practice of last week is quite fresh, when both the Budget and Finance Committee and the majority of the National Assembly rejected proposals for which it was quite controversial because they are in the Budget Act, whether they are within the scope of the Law adopted at first reading, but rejected them with the arguments of art. 84, para. 2, where it is said that proposals which are contrary to the principles and scope of the bill adopted at first vote are not discussed and are not voted on. Now I ask GERB: shall we observe art. 84, para. 2 of the Rules, or are we only going to observe it when it's convenient for the majority? The last time I opposed the stand of this and even said that this Rule of Rules was literally dead because it didn't apply, you came to me with the argument that it had its Rules. Period. No one's dead, no one's alive! Now I ask you: shall we apply art. 84, para. Two? If we are to apply it, I propose on this basis that you put to the vote a drop, non-confrontation and non-acceptance of these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u25	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. Dear Mr. Tsonev, exactly which proposals you have in mind, because they are... [[Reply from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] There are three texts in Transitional and Final Provisions. One is under § 3, the second is the version proposed by § 3, and the creation of two new paragraphs Who exactly would you like me to put to the vote for dropping out?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u26	The proposals made remain, only those made by the importer. The proposals made by the MPs Sabanov, Saveklieva and Boychev are outside the...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u27	I get it. Paragraphs 4 and 5 you would like...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u28	Yeah. And there is also an amendment in § 3 and I propose that these amendments should not be voted on, but that only the importer's proposal remain.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u29	I get it. In fact, you propose that the amendments of § 3, 4 and 5 be put to the vote. I will put to the vote the proposal of the MP Yordan Tsonev for dropping the texts of § 3, 4 and 5. Vote 172 MPs: for 73, against 45, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. I will put the following texts to the vote: the first is the importer for the name of the division; the next is the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 3; and the creation of two new paragraphs
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u30	Vote 169 MPs: 104, against 23, abstention 42. The proposals have been accepted. Colleagues, we move on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE DANISH-EXISTING PROCEEDING CODEX. The report will introduce us to Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u31	Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance, and Mrs. Lyudmila Petkova, Director of the Tax Policy Directorate, Mrs. Ludmila Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u32	Please vote on the procedure so made for admission. They voted 124 MPs: 118, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u33	"Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 902-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 May 2019, adopted at the first vote on 5 June 2019. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code (prom., SG No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34, para. 5 words the seat of the territorial directorate in which the authority is located shall be replaced by the permanent address or seat of the applicant.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u34	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law and the creation of a new § 1 supported by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: for 80, it is okay with abstention 27. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u35	Under § 1 there is a proposal of the MP Georgi Turnovaliyski: The following amendments shall be made to the content of Chapter 8 of the created chapter: "1." In art. 71a para. 3, 4 and 5 are out. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 71b the following amendments shall be made: (a) in para. 1 the words "Local file' shall be replaced by the words "Securities'; (b) in para. 4 the words "Local file' shall be replaced by "Administrative statement'; (c) in para. 5 in the introductory sentence, the words (d) in para. 9 the words "Local file' shall be replaced by "Administrative statement'; (e) para. Ten o'clock is out. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 71c the following amendments shall be made: (a) the title is amended as follows: (b) in para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: - in the introductory sentence, the words 1.. drop out; - T. 2 becomes t. 1, making the following amendments: - in the introductory sentence, the words................................................... the local - B. - B. It's going to be b. the following points are inserted after - B. It's going to be b. the following point is inserted after - B. .................................................................................................. - T. 3 becomes t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. (c) para. 2 and 3 are out. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 71d The following amendments shall be made: (a) the title is amended as follows: (b) the introductory phrase shall be amended as follows: 71b, para. 1 is part of a multinational group of undertakings, the tax pricing documentation shall also contain: c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) 5. Art. Seventy-one is out. 6. Art. 71 is out. 7. Art. Art. 71g becomes art. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dora Hristova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and does not support it by t. 2, namely: "2." In paragraph 1, in art. 71d, para. 1 the words "March 31' shall be amended by the words "September 30' and paragraph 2 shall be repealed. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... Chapter 8 is created in Title One with art. 71a s 71a 71g: ..Chapter Eight................................................................................................... In addition, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that the Subject matter Art. 71a. (1) This Chapter lays down rules for the preparation of documentation to demonstrate that the terms and conditions of the trade and financial relationships between related parties comply with the conditions that would be established between independent persons in comparable circumstances, including that transactions were made at market prices (sales claim). (2) For the purposes of this chapter, transactions establishing commercial and financial relationships between related parties (trades between related parties) shall be referred to as controlled transactions. (3) The tax pricing documentation shall include a local file and a summary file. (4) The local file shall contain general information on the activity of the person and owner or owners of its shares or shares, as well as data on controlled transactions and on the applied methods for determining market prices. (5) The summary file shall contain information on the organisational structure and activity of the multinational group of undertakings, controlled transactions, functions of the group entities and the applied tax pricing policy. In addition, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that the contested tax ruling does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 Art. 71b. (1) Local legal persons, foreign legal entities engaged in business in the Republic of Bulgaria through place of business, and sole traders who determine their taxable income according to the order of art. 26 of the Law on income taxes of natural persons are obliged to draw up a local file when carrying out controlled transactions. (2) Paragraph 1 shall not apply to: 1. persons exempt from corporate tax under Part Two, Chapter Twenty-Second, Section II of the Corporate Income Tax Act; 2. persons engaged in an activity subject to an alternative tax under Part Five of the Corporate Income Tax Act; 3. persons who, on 31 December of the previous year, do not exceed the following indicators: (a) carrying amount of assets lv., and (b) net sales revenue lv., or (c) average number of staff over the reporting period of 250 persons; 4. persons who carry out controlled transactions only in the country. (3) The persons under para. 2, p. In this respect, the Commission considers that the contested tax ruling does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. (4) A local file shall not be drawn up for controlled transactions with natural persons outside the cases of sole traders. (5) The persons under para. 1 draw up a local file for their controlled transactions where, for the relevant year: 1. the value of the transaction without value added tax and excise duties exceeds: (a) in the case of transactions in the subject-matter of sale of goods lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (b) for all other transactions lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. regardless of t. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid granted by the Region is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. lv. or the amount of interest accrued and other revenue or expenditure related to the loan exceeds 50 thousand. lv. (6) The thresholds under para. 5 shall be calculated separately for each controlled transaction. (7) When the person under para. 1 performs two or more controlled transactions with one or more related parties, and the subject matter and conditions under which these transactions are carried out are comparable to the extent that it enables the combination of those transactions and the application of one method to determine market prices in relation to the range of transactions, the thresholds under para. 5 shall be calculated for the total value of these transactions, respectively, for the total amount of loans received/provided. (8) For the purposes of calculating the threshold under para. 5 also combine transactions with the same related entity that have a different subject but are linked in such a way that they cannot be separated and reliably assessed separately. In this case, when calculating the threshold under para. 5 shall be taken into account the threshold for this transaction, the value of which has the highest share in the total value of the transactions and where such a threshold cannot be reliably determined for the transaction that is the most significant for the parties to the transaction. (9) A local file shall be drawn up only for that transaction or set of transactions for which the threshold under para. 5, irrespective of whether the person may be a party to another transaction or a set of transactions for which the relevant threshold has not been reached. (10) Where they are part of a multinational group of undertakings, persons obliged to draw up a local file must also have a summary file prepared by the final parent undertaking or other group entity. Local file Art. 71c. (1) The local file shall contain the following information: 1. Information about the person under art. 71b, para. 1: (a) description (s) of the management and organisational structure; (b) the identity of the owner or owners of the person's shares or shares; (c) the names and positions of the natural persons to whom the management bodies report their activities and the jurisdiction or jurisdictions in which those persons carry out their principal duties; (d) a detailed description of the activity and business strategy (including changes made compared to the previous year), details of whether it was involved in or affected by the restructuring of the activity or transactions in intangible goods, as well as an explanation of how such transactions affect the activity of the person under art. 71b, para. 1; (e) main competitors; 2. information on controlled transactions.. subject of the local file: (a) a description of the transactions and the circumstances under which they are carried out, including their value; (b) the identification of the associated persons and the quality in which they participate in the transactions referred to in point (a) and (b); (c) amount of the amounts received and paid for transactions distributed by type and jurisdiction of the payers or recipients; (d) copies of the contracts governing controlled transactions; (e) a detailed analysis of comparability involving characteristics of the subject of the controlled transaction, contractual conditions, economic conditions, description of the applied business strategies and functional analysis relating to the person under art. 71b, para. 1 and the relevant related parties to the controlled transactions as well as the changes in the factors of comparability compared to previous years; (f) a description of the method chosen to determine the market prices of the transaction/deals and the reasons for that choice; (g) an indication of the related party chosen as tested (the country of the controlled transaction to which the relevant method for determining market prices applies) and an explanation of the reasons for its choice; (h) a summary of the important assumptions made in applying the method for determining market prices; (i) justify the reasons for the analysis of a period greater than one year where the analysis covers a period of several years; (k) a list and description of the comparable transactions selected (inside and external) between independent persons, where available, and information on the relevant prices and/or financial indicators of comparable persons or transactions on which the analysis of the transfer pricing is based, including a description of their demand methodology and the source of that information; financial indicators shall be determined according to the method chosen to determine market prices; (l) a description of any adjustment carried out to achieve better comparability and an explanation of whether it has been made against the results of the test entity, comparable independent persons or both; (m) a description of the allocation base (s) in the case of intra-group services and the reasons for choosing the relevant base (key); (n) a description of the factors used for the distribution of the combined operating profit/loss in the distributed profit method, the reasons for the choice of the relevant factor and the method of determining the relative weight of each factor when more than one factor is used; (o) a description of the reasons why, following the application of the chosen method for determining market prices, the person has accepted that the result of the respective controlled transactions is determined in accordance with art. 15 of the Corporate Income Tax Act; (p) a summary of the price data and/or financial indicators used in the application of the method chosen to determine market prices; (q) a copy of the existing unilateral, bilateral and multilateral advance pricing agreements and other tax rulings issued by a competent authority of another State or jurisdiction and related to controlled transactions. 3. financial information: (a) an annual financial statement for the year concerned; (b) information (references and tables) and calculations showing how the financial data used in the application of the market price method are related to or arising from the annual financial statement; (c) a summary of the price data or financial indicators of the selected independent comparable transactions or persons used in the analysis and the source of the relevant data. (2) In the local file shall be included the information under para. 1 which is applicable to the specific person under art. 71b, para. 1, the transactions carried out by him and the method chosen to determine market prices. (3) Where no information required by art. 71d, this information may be included in the local file. Summary file Art. 71 C.E. The summary file shall contain the following information: 1. a description and diagram of the legal and organisational structure of the group, a list of the related parties in the group, as well as the jurisdiction in which each of them is resident for tax purposes, or, where he is not resident in any jurisdiction, the jurisdiction under whose legislation he is established; 2. a general description of the activities of the group including: (a) main factors affecting profit formation; (b) a description, scheme or diagram of the supply chain of the five most important goods, services and/or intangible goods determined on the basis of their income, as well as of all other goods, services and/or intangible goods that form more than 5 per cent of the group's consolidated income; 3. a general description of controlled transactions including: (a) movement of goods, services and/or intangible goods; (b) movement of invoices; (c) the value of the goods, services and/or intangible goods referred to in point (a) to (d) to (e) to (g) to (g) to (g) to (g) to (g) to (g) to (g) to (g) to (g) to (h) to (h) to (h) to (h) to (h) to (h) to (h) to 4. the tax pricing policy applied by the group or a description of the group's tax pricing methodology that justifies the market nature of the prices of controlled transactions; 5. a list and a brief description of the most essential service contracts between the related parties in the group, with the exception of the contracts for research and development services; the description shall also state information on the capacity of the main units providing those services and on the profit pricing policies of the group for the distribution of service costs and the pricing of the intra-group services; 6. a description of the main markets by geographical regions on which the goods, services and/or intangible goods of the group are offered, as referred to in paragraph 6. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 7. a brief functional analysis describing the contribution of individual related parties to the group in the creation of value (executed key functions, significant risks and important assets used), including a description of changes in functions and risks compared to the previous tax year, if any; 8. a description of the important restructurings, acquisitions and divisions during the tax year; 9. a description of business strategies as well as of changes occurring compared to the previous tax year; 10. Information on intangible goods: (a) a general description of the group's strategy for the development, possession and use of intangible goods, as well as the location of the main research and development centres and the locations where it is managed; (b) List of intangible goods (patents, trademarks, know-how, etc.) or groups of intangible goods that are important for the purposes of tax pricing, their copyright and licence remuneration, and information on their owner; (c) a list of contracts between the related parties governing the provision or transfer of intangible goods referred to in (b) including cost allocation agreements and R&D contracts; (d) a general description of the group's tax pricing policy with regard to research and development and intangible goods; (e) a general description of the transactions in intangible goods referred to in point (b) between related persons during the tax year, including the remuneration due, the related parties involved, the jurisdiction in which each person is resident for tax purposes, or, where he is not resident in any jurisdiction, the jurisdiction under whose legislation he is established; 11. information on the financial activities of the group: (a) a general description of the group's sources of funding, including business-related financing agreements with unrelated parties; (b) an indication of the associated entities that at central level perform a funding function within the group, including the jurisdiction under whose legislation each of them is resident for tax purposes, or, where he is not resident in any jurisdiction, the jurisdiction under whose legislation he is established; (c) a general description of the group's tax pricing policy with regard to financing activities between related parties; 12. financial and tax results of the group: (a) the annual consolidated financial statement for the tax year to which the summary file relates; (b) a list and a brief description of the existing unilateral advance pricing arrangements and other tax rulings relating to the tax pricing issued in respect of the related parties in the group. Time limits for drawing up the tax pricing documentation Art. 71e. (1) The local file shall be drawn up by 31 March of the year following the year to which it relates. (2) Where an adjustment annual tax return under art. 75, para. 3 of the Corporate Income Tax Act, leading to a change of data in the local file, it is updated in relation to the correction made. The update of the local file shall be carried out within 14 days of the submission of the corrective declaration, but no later than 30 September of the current year. (3) The person referred to in art. 71b, para. 10 must have a summary file for the tax year of the final parent enterprise of the multinational group of enterprises starting on 1 January or later in the year for which the local file under art is drawn up. 71c, no later than 12 months after the term under para. 1. The Commission therefore concludes that the contested tax ruling does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. Art. 71f. (1) The tax pricing documentation shall be kept by the persons referred to in art. 71b, para. 1 and 10 and shall be made available at the request of a revenue body within the framework of tax and security controls carried out. (2) The local and summary file shall be drawn up annually. (3) In the absence of significant changes in the comparability factors for controlled transactions, the study of comparable independent transactions and/or persons shall be updated at least every 3 years. Notwithstanding the first sentence, the financial data of transactions or persons designated as comparable on the basis of the study must be updated annually. Specific cases Art. 71g. (1) The provisions of this Chapter shall also apply to transfers between a place of business and other parts of the enterprise of a foreign person located outside the country. (2) For the purposes of this Chapter, non-personalised companies shall be equalised to legal entities.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u36	Statements? I won't. We'll move on to the vote. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs to enter the Chamber. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Turnovalyski. They voted 123 MPs: 37 against 71, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote the unsupported part of the Commission of the proposal of the National Representative Dora Hristova and a group of MPs. Vote 128 MPs: 21, Against 9, abstention 98. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 1, which shall become § 2. They voted 126 MPs: for 93, against 1, abstention 32. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u37	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 4. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 75, para. The first sentence of paragraph 2 shall be replaced by the authorities referred to in paragraph 2. 1, t. 1 and 2 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u38	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the texts supported by the Commission for § 2, which becomes § 3; § 3, which becomes § 4; § 4, which becomes § 6; § 5, which becomes § 7, and the creation of a new § 5 with text, according to the Commission Report. They voted 125 MPs: 90, none, abstention 35. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u39	Under § 6 of the importer there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 8, by proposing in art. 134e para. 4 to be amended as follows: The agreement reached finally resolves the issue in question and the decision issued on the basis of it is binding on all authorities and institutions and has an executive power for the person concerned where it: Under § 7 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 142b, para. 6 the words "to collect it in accordance with another law" shall be replaced by "or was not obliged to collect it in any other order." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u40	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 8 with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission; the version proposed by the Commission for § 7, which shall become § 9; the text for § 8, which shall become § 10, supported by the Commission, and the text of § 9, which shall become § 11, supported by the Commission. They voted 123 MPs: 92, none, abstention 31. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u41	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 147, para. The first sentence shall be replaced by the position of the determining authority in whose judicial area the applicant's permanent address or seat is at the time the first tax insurance control action was carried out by the revenue authorities. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10 which shall become § 13. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 14: in Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 156, para. 5, the words at its location shall be replaced by in whose judicial area is the applicant's permanent address or seat at the time of the first exercise of the tax insurance control action by the revenue authorities.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u42	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 12 with a text according to the Report; the text of the importer for § 10, becoming § 13, and the Commission's proposal to create a new § 14 with a text under the Report. They voted 119 MPs: 86, none, abstention 33. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u43	According to paragraph 11, there is a proposal by the National Representative Georgi Turnovalyski § 11 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dora Hristova and a group of MPs: In paragraph 11, paragraph 1 is replaced by (a) in the newly created para. 5 of art. 278a at the end of the first sentence shall be supplemented by the words not more than 5000 levs. (b) in the newly created para. 6 words in the amount from 5000 to 10 000 BGN are replaced by the words in the amount from 1500 to 5000 BGN. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 83. para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 15, as in art. 278a para. 5 words in size 0,5 to 1 per cent shall be replaced by up to 0,5 per cent. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u44	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Turnovalyski. They voted 113 MPs: 31, against 54, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Dora Hristova and a group of MPs. They voted 110 MPs: 22, against 11, abstention 77. The offer is not accepted. I will now put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 11, which becomes § 15 with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission; and the text of the importer for § 12, which becomes § 16, supported by the Commission. They voted 113 MPs: 84, against 2, abstention 27. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u45	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 17: Seventeen. The legal proceedings under art. 34, para. Art. 5, art. 75, para. Art. 2, Art. 147, para. Art. 3 and Art. 156, para. 5, are finished in the current order. Paragraphs 13, 14, 15 and 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 13 to 16 including those becoming paragraphs 18 to 21 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u46	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put the following texts to the vote: the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision, the Commission proposal to create a new § 17 with a text according to the Commission Report and the text of the importer supported by the Commission for paragraphs 13, 14, 15 and 16, which become paragraphs 18, 19, 20, 21 respectively. Vote 117 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 31. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u47	There is a proposal of the MP Maria Ilieva and Evgenia Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The Public Sector Internal Audit Act shall make the following additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40, para. 5 Finally, after the word "year', the "financial management and control and internal audit' is added. 2. In § 1 of the Additional provision, paragraph 3 is inserted. 10: I'm sorry, I'm "The Financial Management and Control and Internal Audit System' is an electronic system maintained by the Minister of Finance, containing information on the public sector internal audit units, certified internal auditors, the order and manner of organising and conducting examinations for the acquisition of a certificate, an internal auditor in the public sector, the legislation and methodology related to the implementation of financial management and control and internal audit in the public sector. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 23: ..................................................... The Corporate Income Tax Act makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 47c para. 4 is amended as follows: "Alinea 1" does not apply to: 1. a taxable person who is taxed in accordance with Part Five of this Law; 2. a controlled foreign company which, for its activities in the country in which it is resident for tax purposes, is subject to alternative forms of taxation. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) In para. 3 after the words...................................................................................... is added...................................................................................................................................................................... (b) In para. 7 after the words.. with the help of....the necessary for the activity concerned.......................................................................................... is added........................................................................................................................................................ 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 172 para. 1 is amended as follows: Art. 172. (1) The right to transfer under this Chapter shall be suspended upon transfer of an undertaking under art. 15 of the Commercial Law and in the event of the conversion of a taxable person, with the exception of transformation by changing the legal form according to art. 264 of the Commercial Law. Under § 17 a proposal has been made by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova in accordance with Article 17. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 2, § 15, § 16, paragraph 16. 1 and § 18, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u48	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I will put to the vote the Commission proposal to create two new paragraphs 22 and 23 with a text under the Commission Report and the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 17, which becomes § 24. Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. They voted 110 MPs: 77 against 1, abstention 32. The proposals were adopted, with which the Law of Second Voting was adopted. Moving on to: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CONNECTIONAL ORGANIZATION OF THE MAGISTER-FARMACENTS WITH THE IMPORTER THE MINISTER COUNCIL. The report belongs to the Committee on Health for a second vote. Here you are, dear Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u49	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 9 May 2019 the Council of Ministers adopted the first vote on 19 June 2019 for a second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Word Organization of Master Pharmacists, No 902-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 May 2019. The Law on the Word Organization of Master Pharmacists is hereby amended and supplemented by the Law on the Word Organization of Master Pharmacists. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Under § 1, there is a proposal made by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u50	Guys, it's too loud, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u51	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. 1 the following amendments and 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6 the words supplied and recorded shall be replaced by supplied, recorded and controlled. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 10 the words "next to home' are deleted; 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 11 after the word...... and their families in case of need....................................................................................... 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 12 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'. 5. They're creating a t. 13 and 14: "13." assist the state authorities, the judicial authorities and officials in or in the exercise of their powers; 14. carry out other activities referred to in law. Under § 2, a proposal was made by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 2 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u52	Thank you. Colleagues, if you need a recess, I will, but please remain silent in this room! You can't hear what the rapporteur is reading. Thank you. Statements? I don't see any speeches. I will put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 1, and the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 2 by importer. They voted 124 MPs: 77, against 25, abstention 22. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u53	Under § 3 a proposal was made by the National Representative Ivan Ibrishimov and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in § 3: (a) t. 1.. drop out; (b) t. 2 - 4 becomes 1 - 3 - respectively. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The representatives referred to in paragraph 2 shall be represented by the members of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors In the case of a number of members of the regional college with more than 5 persons above the level of representation, the number of delegates shall be increased by one. 2. A new para is being created. 3: The Delegations under para. 2 shall be selected no later than 30 days before the scheduled date of the meeting of the BFS Congress. 3. They're creating an al. 4, 5 and 6: When within the period referred to in para. 3 are selected less than half of the delegates under para. 2, according to the regional pharmaceutical colleges, according to the list of members of the National Electronic Register of BFS, the congress is postponed by two months. (5) When after the expiry of the two-month period under para. 4 no more than half of the delegates under para. 2, according to the data of the regional pharmaceutical colleges according to the list of members of the National Electronic Register of BFS, the Congress of BFS shall be convened by the Minister of Health within one month. (6) The members of the BFS authorities at national level shall take part in the meetings of the Congress of Law, having the right to vote if they are elected delegates from the relevant regional college to which they are members. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u54	Statements, coworkers? You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u55	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In general, BSP's parliamentary group is against this law. We will vote against and abstain because we believe that this law and Parliament's intervention in the organisation of word organizations, in their lives, calls into question their autonomy. But anyway we have our proposals, the Law is tabled, and one of them is when it comes to representation, to the selection of members, to the delegates of the Congress of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, the Council of Ministers proposes that the standard of representativeness be one delegate of 20 members, that is to say the reduction of the quota. We are here to preserve the old text that has worked so far, and the representation rate to be one in ten, and this is our proposal. Because it is a proposal made and fully in defence of small regional pharmaceutical colleges, in defence of pharmacists who have fewer pharmacies, smaller chains, one at a time, two pharmacies at a time and by no means against the Sofia Regional Pharmacy College and the big chains. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u56	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibrishimov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mrs Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u57	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are in no way interfering with the work of the Pharmaceutical Union, and we are the ones who make the framework of the Law on which an independent organisation operates. This is the role of the National Assembly. And by no means should we allow politicisation and any bias with regard to pharmaceutical colleges, division into small and large. The logic of this proposal by the Council of Ministers is related to the changes that have occurred in the years in the numerical composition of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union. The law was established in 2006, then the number of Master Pharmacists, members of the Bulgarian pharmaceutical union, increased by over a thousand. In this sense, there has also been a significant imbalance in the distribution of members in the various regional pharmaceutical colleges. And if there are really small pharmaceutical colleges with representation of up to 200 members, there are also those that are very large. We must have the same norm of representativeness, regardless of whether they are large and small, and here the commitment to pharmacies and chains is absolutely incorrect, because in principle pharmacists work at many other levels of pharmaceutical services in Bulgaria and we cannot talk around this law in any case only about retailing medicinal products. This is regulated in a completely different way. I would like to point out as an argument the practice in the other responsible organizations, which are also regulated by law: with the Bulgarian Medical Union the representation in Congress is one in 75 members, with the Bulgarian Association of Assistant Pharmacists representation is once again one in 75 members, with dentists is one in 25 members. With regard to the change in the number of the Pharmaceutical Union, we propose a compromise solution not to be 20 members of one representative in Congress, as is the initial proposal of the Council of Ministers, and we propose 15. I believe that this can be supported by the MPs because it makes it easier for the national forum of the Bulgarian Pharmacy Union to function and by no means restrict the rights of pharmacists. I believe that we do not need to have such disputes because the most important thing is what is the support for the management of the Bulgarian pharmaceutical union. In this regard, we have an absolutely supported solution and we have complied with our proposal with the opinions and opinions of the word organization of the Master Pharmacists.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Ibrishimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u59	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs Daritkova, yes, you are right that the Pharmaceutical Union has grown by about 1000 members, but this is within 10 years. From 2006 to the present day. As a number of these members have grown mostly in the large pharmaceutical colleges in Sofia, in Plovdiv and mostly in Sofia, i.e. with this figure again we give priority to the large organization. For small organizations such as Kyustendil, Blagoevgrad, Silistra, my proposal, based on their appeal to me, is to support them. They remain without representation and do not increase as numbers, but decrease. I was just quoting chains and pharmacies. You know that we all fight and you know that when we go to small towns, most residents complain about the lack of a pharmacy, for example, in a small municipality. We're all here for these pharmacies to have, to exist, but that's how we eliminate their significance. That is why my proposal is because in small towns, in small areas the number of members of the Bulgarian pharmaceutical union is decreasing and not increasing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibrishimov. Here you go for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Daritkova, I will draw a parallel with the Law on the Judiciary and the manner of election of the General Assembly of all judges, prosecutors and their representatives in the Supreme Judicial Council. Then you, your government and your justice minister, practically proposed a mini Election Code, and on two consecutive Saturdays every judge and prosecutor in the country is organized to be able to vote and to elect his representative to the Supreme Judicial Council. This was done in view of the increased representativeness, these were your motives, although the judges and prosecutors in Bulgaria are much more than the number of pharmacists. This could happen, can be done, namely with your arguments for the then proposals for this mini electoral code for determining the members of the Supreme Judicial Council, by analogy can be made and accepted the proposal of my colleague Ibrishimov, in view of the greater representativeness of these pharmacists who belong to the smaller organizations in the smaller towns in the province so that they can defend their interests in the representative bodies of their organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u62	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u63	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Doctor Daritkova, you said that we do not interfere in the word life of the Union of Pharmacists in Bulgaria. The regular assembly of this organization was to be held by October 1 for the simple reason that the previous convention was held on October 1st. To date, I am not aware that the Board of the Word Organization of the Union of Bulgarian pharmacists has taken organisational measures to suggest the holding of the congress, and at that time you are proposing measures that make it possible to hold the congress somewhere around mid-February, in my opinion, and deadlines that need to be respected for the selection of delegates of regional colleges and national level. I think that the extension of the term for holding the congress of the word organization of Bulgarian pharmacists by six months is unacceptable interference in her word life. Moreover, it is a public secret that this organization has severe internal problems. Therefore, I believe that the convention should be held in time, within when it should be held, i.e. by October 1st of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u64	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Here you go, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Associate Professor Yordanov, precisely because we do not interfere in internal affairs, we do not monitor the date of the Congress of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union. On the other hand, if you follow what we have proposed as texts, you will see that we are giving up a deadline of up to two months to bring the regional pharmaceutical colleges into line with this law, to offer their representatives and to hold the relevant meetings so that the cumulative period will be no more than four months. No more! So if the word organization of the Master Pharmacists makes a good organization, it can fit into the term you refer to. In addition, I think it is important to allow operationally all these meetings to happen successfully. Why do I disagree with the first colleague who claims that this is how small colleges are disbarred? I made a simple account of the number of the Pharmaceutical College in Kyustendil, which is 95 people. At the norm of representation they had 9 representatives in the Congress of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, and by dividing them by 15 according to our proposal, if we have 5 people above the norm, the representation is increased by 1 and 7 pieces. That is to say, the Regional Pharmaceutical College of Kyustendil, with two delegates reduced representativeness in the Congress of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union. With regard to the Sofia College, in the interest of which you believe this change is being made, what are the estimates? At 2200 members of the Sofia Pharmaceutical College, they had 220 representatives so far, and at the representation of 15 members of one, they received 150. So here is a greater reduction and proportional representativeness of small colleges will remain the same, so this argument is also untenable. As far as the other association is concerned, there is simply nothing to comment on because I have made analogies with the relevant laws of relevant terms that are regulated professions in the field of health. There is no analogy to be made between the judicial system and the health system with regard to the laws of the word organizations, because the functions of the word organizations of regulated professions are radically different than the functions of the judges.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u66	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Ivan Ibrishimov and a group of MPs. They voted 152 MPs: 61, against 66, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of § 3, which shall become § 2 of the Commission Report. They voted 146 MPs: 85, against 53, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u67	Under § 4, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the word "s' is replaced by "s' in the order of art. 7, para. 2 delegates. 2. In para. 2 words by the delegates shall be replaced by the total number of delegates and after the word the attendees shall be added to the meeting. 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: In the absence of a quorum, the congress shall be postponed by one hour, after which it shall be held with the delegates present, who shall not be less than half of the total number of delegates of regional pharmaceutical colleges according to the staff of the national electronic register of BFS members.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u68	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the version of § 4, which becomes § 3. Vote 150 MPs: for 89, against 47, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u69	Under § 5, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 the words "year' shall be replaced by "yearly' and shall be promulgated in the Official Journal. 2. They're creating a t. 9, 10, 11 and 12: Nine. adopt rules for keeping and maintaining the registers of the members of the BFS; 10. carry out other activities provided for in the rules of the organisation; 11. assist the state authorities, the judicial authorities and officials in or in the exercise of their powers; 12. carry out other activities specified in law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u70	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the amendment of § 5, which becomes § 4. Vote 139 MPs: 86, against 43, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I suggest we vote on extending working hours until parliamentary control is exhausted. Vote 139 MPs: 130 against 4, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u71	According to § 6 there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14, para. 2 the following amendments and 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 after the word 2. New t. is being created. 2 and 3: "2." monitor the compliance of the decisions taken by the Management Board of the Regional Colleges of BFS with the decisions of the authorities at national level and their implementation and, in the event of non-compliance, address the control committee of the relevant regional pharmaceutical college; 3. convene a general meeting of the regional pharmaceutical college in the event that the control committee of the relevant regional pharmaceutical college does not convene one under the conditions and within the time limit laid down in art. 27, para. 2, p. 4; the General Assembly shall be convened by publication of an invitation on the website of BFS no later than 30 days before the designated meeting date; 3. A t is created. 4. "4." examine the reports under art. 22, para. 1, t. 7 and pronounces by them. 4. Previously on "T." 2 and 3 become ct, respectively. 5 and Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the It's six. carry out the control under art. 5, para. 1, t. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u72	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the amendment of § 6, which becomes § 5, and the new § 6. They voted 136 MPs: 86, against 42, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u73	According to § 7 there is a proposal of the MP Ivan Ibrishimov and a group of MPs. Paragraph 7 shall make the following amendments and additions: The following sentence shall be inserted: "In art. 21 the following amendments and additions are made: (b) To be created t. 1: "1." Al. 1 is amended as follows: (1) The General Assembly of Regional Pharmaceutical Colleges with up to 200 members shall consist of all members of the College. For regional pharmaceutical colleges with more than 200 members, the general meeting is formed on a delegate principle, under the rule of representation one delegate of two members. c) The text so far becomes t. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... Article 21 is amended as follows: Art. 21. (1) The General Assembly of the Regional Pharmaceutical College shall be formed on a delegate principle at the norm of representation one delegate to three members. (2) The General Assembly shall be convened at regular meetings once a year and at extraordinary meetings. (3) The order to convene a general meeting under para. 2, The rules for work and decision-making shall be laid down in the statutes of the regional pharmaceutical college. (4) The invitation to convene a regular meeting under para. 2 shall be published on the website of BFS no later than 30 days before the date of the meeting. (5) The invitation to convene an extraordinary meeting under para. 2 shall be published on the website of BFS no later than 14 days before the date of the meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u74	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Ibrishimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u75	Madam President, honourable Members! Here again our proposal is in the direction of protecting small pharmaceutical colleges by regions. The current text states that each member of the pharmaceutical college participates in the General Assembly. We understand that in the major colleges such as Sofia and Plovdiv, for example, the number of the college has increased and a quorum is difficult to collect. We therefore propose that the quorum be secured by reducing the number of members, but that it be one in two. We believe that this is enough and is also in support of small municipalities that still have pharmacies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u76	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibrishimov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote Mr. Ibrishimov's unsupported proposal. They voted 133 MPs: 54, against 60, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 7 of the Commission Report. Vote 131 MPs: 80, against 46, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u77	Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22, para. 1 the following amendments and 1. point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. adopt the reports on the activities of the control committee and the committee on ethics and quality of the college and decide on them; 2. A new t. is created. 7. "7." adopt the annual report on the activities of the college and the annual report on the implementation of the budget referred to in paragraph 1. 2 of the college and send them to the control committee under art. 14, para. 1);supposed to be in the form of a combination of two or more of the following forms: 3. Previously on "T." 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u78	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of § 8, supported by the Commission. They voted 132 MPs: 82, against 42, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u79	According to § 8 there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 8, which becomes § 9: ..................................................... Article 23 is amended as Art. 23. (1) The General Assembly of the Regional Pharmaceutical College shall be deemed to be legally held in the presence of two thirds of the elected delegates. The statutes shall be adopted by a qualified majority of two thirds of the elected delegates, and all other decisions by a simple majority of the delegates present at the meeting. (2) In the absence of a quorum, the meeting shall be postponed by one hour, after which it shall be held with the delegates present at the meeting, who shall not be less than half of the total number of delegates of the General Assembly. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new t. is created. 6: It's six. draw up an annual report on the activities of the college and an annual report on the implementation of the college budget and propose them for adoption by the General Assembly under art. 22, para. 1); 2. Previously on "T." 6, 7, 8 and 9 respectively. 7, 8, 9 and 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9 and § 10 which shall become § 11 and § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u80	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote: the version of § 8, which becomes § 9 of the Commission Report; the creation of § 10; and respectively the text of the importer for § 9, which becomes § 11; and § 10, which becomes § 12, supported by the Commission. They voted 121 MPs: 79, against 30, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u81	According to § 11, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 11, which becomes § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32, para. 5 is amended as Within one month of the entry in the register under art. 31, para. 1 The Management Board of BFS shall issue a membership card according to a model approved by BFS. Under § 12, there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with Article 12. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The Management Board of the Regional Pharmacy College concerned shall inform the Management Board of all the circumstances entered in its register by reporting them in the national electronic register in accordance with the rules of art. 12, t. 9. 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The administrative authorities, public functions persons, public services organisations and the judicial authorities before which circumstances should be established, entered in the national electronic register under art. 5, para. 1, t. 4 or which require data available in the national electronic register under art. 5, para. 1, t. 4 shall accept the verification of circumstances and data with a written indication of a unique identification number from the national electronic register of BFS members in the relevant request and/or application, notification, declaration or other document initiating the proceedings without requiring applicants and/or submiters to provide evidence of circumstances and data recorded in the register. Proposal of the National Representative Ivan Ibrishimov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u82	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the version of § 11, which becomes § 13, and the version of § 12, which becomes 14. Vote 112 MPs: 75, against 32, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u83	"Transitional provision." Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of the division of the Law. 'Concluding provisions'. Under § 13, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... (1) The regional pharmaceutical colleges of BFS shall conduct the selection of delegates for a general meeting of the college in accordance with art. 21, para. 1 within two months of the entry into force of this law. (2) The regional pharmaceutical colleges of BFS shall hold general meetings for the selection of delegates in accordance with art. 7 within 4 months of the entry into force of this Law, the elected delegates shall form the next regular meeting of the Congress of BFS. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 16: ......... 16........................................... In the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 259, para. 1, t. 4. 1. The word "supplied' is replaced by "adopted'. 2. A sentence second is created: "Farmaco-therapeutic guides are adopted by regulations and are promulgated in the Official Journal."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u84	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the amendment of the name of the division of the Law, the version of § 13, which shall become § 15, and the newly created § 16. Vote 119 MPs: 80, against 33, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted. Colleagues, I'm calling a 30-minute recess. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u85	Colleagues, we're starting work. Next item: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO GENERALATE THE STATE MONETARY PRESENT TO THE BULGARIAN STATE AND THE NATION. The Committee on Education and Science presents a report. Dear Mrs. Damyanova, please introduce us to the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u86	♪ I can't believe on Draft Decision on the award of a state monetary prize for special merit to the Bulgarian State and the nation, No 902-03-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 July 2019. At its extraordinary meeting on 31 July 2019, the Committee on Education and Science discussed a draft decision on granting a state monetary prize for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation. The meeting was attended by Tanya Mihailova Deputy Minister of Education and Science, and Nelly Nencheva Chief Expert at the Strategic Development Policy Directorate. On behalf of the importers, the project was presented by Deputy Minister Tanya Mihaylova. The granting of the state monetary prize for special merit to the Bulgarian state and the nation is offered on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on the Award of Persons with Special Merit to the Bulgarian State and the Nation. The award is for outstanding achievements and overall contribution to education. Stoyanka Nasteva works in the field of folk art and is searching for works suitable for children, including on the topic "People's Games for Children." She is actively involved in experimenting and adopting programmes for preschool children. The special merits of Stoyanka Nasteva in the educational field are related to the validation of the principles of education in the educational field "Music in the kindergarten." With her personal example, she provokes the creativity of young children's teachers, makes them her followers in the training and upbringing of young children by applying the beauty of music and dance. It is an example of a contemporary Bulgarian Buddhist and a person who dedicated his life and work to Bulgarian education. For his professional and dedicated pedagogical activities Stoyanka Nasteva received many awards, including the Order of St. St. Cyril and Methodius. Second degree, Alumni of the Ministry of Education and Science. These awards are proof of the overall contribution to education. The results achieved contributed significantly to the development of preschool education with a focus on music training in kindergarten. In the subsequent discussion, the MPs recommended that the Ministry of Education and Science develop a mechanism for supporting and rewarding prominent teachers. Unanimously supported was the submitted draft decision to award a state monetary prize for special merit to the Bulgarian state and the nation of Mrs. Stoyanka Nasteva. Following a 21-vote vote, the Committee on Education and Science proposed to the National Assembly to accept the submitted draft decision on granting a state monetary prize for special services to the Bulgarian State and the nation, No 902-03-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 July 2019. I will now present the draft decision: Project! DECISION granting a state monetary award for special merit to the Bulgarian State and the nation The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on the Award of Individuals for Special Merit to the Bulgarian State and the Nation HAS DECIDED 1. He awards a state monetary prize for special merit to the Bulgarian state and the nation lively in the amount of BGN 500. Stoyanka Ivanova Nasteva monthly for outstanding achievements and for her overall contribution to education. 2. Instructs the Minister for Education and Science to implement the decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u88	Mr. Chairman, if you'll allow us to vote in the hall of Tanya Mihaylova, Deputy Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u89	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. Vote 105 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber. Statements, coworkers? You have the floor, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u90	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We from BSP for Bulgaria will support the award of a state monetary award for special merit to the Bulgarian state and the nation of Mrs. Nasteva. We believe that it is our moral right to really support such Bulgarians who have done their best in their professional way to train Bulgarian generations. Here, however, ladies and gentlemen, comes the big question: how many Bulgarian citizens, worthy Bulgarians, who receive 219 BGN. Retirement? If you do not know, I will tell you that there are 850 thousand Bulgarian citizens. Some of them may have less merit, others may have even greater merit, but I ask: where is the role of the Bulgarian state and what is the attitude of the Bulgarian state exactly to those Bulgarian citizens who have, notice, one single wine, one single guilt, and it is that they have retired before 2000!? Do you from the ruling coalition have a solution to this issue?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u91	We do!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u92	You only have a solution if a word organization or you remember, eventually, for some of these people, the National Assembly to vote on the specific bill. We in the opposition have a solution to this issue, and a few weeks ago we offered it to you. However, you rejected it without giving the necessary explanation and at the same time you have no solution to this question. Yes, we will support, again I say, this bill and all other bills for these really honest, worthy Bulgarians, but we believe that this is not fair. Every time we debate and vote in this House, we believe that the institutions do not do their job, and the biggest institution is the Bulgarian Parliament, which makes the laws and which brings even greater injustice. It is high time to recalculate pensions, ladies and gentlemen! And that's the solution to a lot of the problems. I'm not saying all problems will be solved. Moreover, such a step was taken in 2008! And I don't understand why you are not currently proposing such a measure, or rather not supporting such a measure? If it comes from the opposition well, we are ready to silence only to be yours, but ultimately to us are the lives and fates of the Bulgarian citizens. Sixty percent are Bulgarian pensioners who live below the poverty line!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u93	Don't change the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u94	No, that's not the point. Because we have come this far to vote on such a bill because of your reluctance to recalculate pensions! And that has to be made clear! If a person makes a huge contribution and receives the maximum pension, do you agree to give him an additional 500 BGN bonus?? I want to ask you. No, because it's more like you're looking at it from a material point of view. That is why we on the left say that every Bulgarian citizen should be supported, every Bulgarian citizen should receive what is necessary so that a decent life can live and everyone who has truly contributed and his life for the development of this country should be grateful to him. However, what we are doing right now shows that we do not have legislation to guarantee a decent life for these Bulgarian citizens! Again, BSP will support this law. Thank you. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u95	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? I won't. In the manner of conduct, please, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u96	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chairman, perhaps you should have interrupted Mr. Stoinev with his speech because he wasn't on the subject. He corrupted a good proposal, which is to be adopted unanimously by the National Assembly. You said you would support the proposal for Mrs. Nasteva, who is a prominent children's music teacher, with special merit in your field, and you talked about pensions, Mr. Stoinev. You may have forgotten that as Chairman of the Social Committee until January 2013 this article. 91 of the Social Security Code for Special Merit...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u97	It's the procedure to Christov, not to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u98	Because you're talking about pensions. This isn't a pension! It's not a pension, and maybe that's why...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u99	Mr. Stoynev, stay out of this! I'm listening carefully, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u100	Mr. Stoinev spent all his time talking about pensions. This isn't a pension! At the end of 2012, Art. 91 of the Social Security Code concerned [[noise and lines]] the special merit pensions have been abolished and, as of 1 January 2013, the Act on the Award of Individuals for Special Credits to the State has been applied. Mr. Stoinev, this is not a pension. That's it. [[Replication of MP Dragomir Stoinev]] a state reward that we have accepted to be received by persons who have special merit, and it can be periodic, it can be monthly, it can be one-off, it can be lifelong. I therefore make this remark to the President, leading today's National Assembly meeting that Mr. Stoinev was incorrect and did not speak on the topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u101	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. In the manner of conduct please, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Such a remark should have been to you rather than to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u103	She was to me, I listened carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u104	Yeah, but my name was always mentioned. I say we will support this decision. However, the problem is that these people must lead a decent life and should not rely on a decision of parliament, but simply the system must work. That was the point of my speech. And the system doesn't work because of you by GERB! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u105	She didn't dispute what you said. There was more to the way it was led. You're giving up, Mr. Popov. We continue with the speeches. Deputy Minister Mihailova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our motives for proposing this decision to award a state monetary prize for special merit to the Bulgarian state and the nation are based on art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on the Award of Persons with Special Merit to the Bulgarian State and the Nation. That is why we propose the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria to adopt a decision to award this award, which is for outstanding achievements and for a comprehensive contribution to education. Stoyanka Nasteva was born on October 10, 1947 and graduated from a semi-high education with a major in preschool pedagogics. It was acquired at the Institute for Children's Teachers in Ruse in 1967. Mrs. Nasteva has also acquired a second professional degree in speciality "Music" in the Department for improving the qualification of teachers in Varna in 2003. It is known to the Russian public for its extremely interesting and innovative approaches in preparing children for concerts and stage appearances. He works in the field of folk art, he is looking for works suitable for children, including on the topic "People's Games for Children." Ms. Nasteva has actively participated in the experimentation and adoption of training and training programmes for pre-school children. He gives open lessons and works on the experimental theme "Children's Work." Mrs. Nasteva's special merits in the educational field are related to validating the principles of education in the educational field of music in the kindergarten, taking into account its specificity with the development of musical skills, habits and knowledge from the children, and especially the development of their musical abilities and their overall performance. With her personal example she provokes the creativity of young children's teachers, makes them followers in the training and upbringing of young children by applying the beauty of music and dancing. It is an example of a contemporary Bulgarian Buddhist and a person who dedicated his life and work to Bulgarian education. In her work she also worked actively with the National School of Arts "Professor Veselin Stoyanov" in the town of Ruse and put on stage performances for children such as the Nutcracker, the Sleeping Beauty, the Tsar Leo and others. He translates and adapts songs for children from the World Children's Song Festival in Italy. In 2005 Stoyanka Nasteva welcomed many guests from Northern Bulgaria together with her team for the performance of Easter, once again with this program she presented a worthy town of Ruse. For his professional dedication Stoyanka Nasteva received many awards, including the Order of St. St. Cyril and Methodius "Second degree;" Alumni of the Ministry of Education and Science "; the Ruse " prize for education, and others. These awards are proof of her outstanding achievements in the field of education and recognition of her overall contribution to this public sphere, which is expressed in her long-standing high-professional pedagogical work, her achievements in teaching methodology, and especially for her participation in the preparation of young pedagogical staff. Its results have greatly contributed to the development of preschool education with a focus on musical training in kindergartens. And the Order of St. John's. St. Cyril and Methodius is a prize which gives due respect to Mrs. Nasteva as a longtime actor of Bulgarian education. Respected and appreciated, Mrs. Nasteva enjoys many generations of Russians and gives them her youth and energy, gaining the affection of children, parents and public. The award for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation is for its outstanding achievements and its overall contribution to education. With the adoption of such a decision will be expressed respect for the high professional and dedicated pedagogical activity of Mrs. Nasteva, her commitment to education and education of generations of Bulgarian students and teachers from the city of Ruse and the district and for her overall contribution to education.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Minister. We'll continue with the speeches, colleagues. Are there any other statements? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the draft decision which has been presented to the Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u108	Vote 128 MPs: for 128, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that it be included in the weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly as follows additional point: An early termination of the relationship of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. The Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in connection with the resignation of Plamen Georgiev Dimitrov as President of the Commission on 31 July 2019. I propose that it be included as point six for today's plenary session 31 July 2019 and the remaining points are renumbered. Please, voting mode. Vote 131 MPs: 128 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We're going to point five for today: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PHYSICAL RECOGNITION AND SPORTS. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I offer access to the hall of Deputy Minister Nikolay Pavlov and the expert Slavka Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u110	Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 123 MPs: 117, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u111	Thank you, Madam President. "Report on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Physical Education and Sports, No 954-01-27, submitted by Stefan Apostolov, Galya Zaharieva, Vladimir Valev and Valentin Milushev on 19 April 2019, adopted at the first vote on 25 July 2019. The Law on Physical Education and Sports is amended and supplemented by the Law on Physical Education and Sports. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u112	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. Vote 128 MPs: for 127, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u113	The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21, para. 1, t. 6 shall be added at the end, if any, by a member of an international sports organisation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u114	Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u115	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The amendments tabled to the Law on Physical Education and Sports, which essentially concern the regime for licensing sports organisations, caused many debates and discussions during the meeting at first reading and during the meeting of the Commission at second reading. I believe that the changes presented and the edited text bring more opportunities for interpretation and more opportunities on the day tomorrow to have, I would say, subjectivism or rather an administrative arbitrariness from which we want to protect ourselves, and especially when it concerns sports organizations and the way sports movement is functioning in Bulgaria, so I propose the following version to the text, we have already discussed it with colleagues from the Sports Commission, which says and sounds like: I believe that membership rights and rights provided for the organisation of sports activities are intertwined here. It is precisely to overcome this collision that I think this text will be able to specify, to specify exactly what rights we are talking about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. Will there be a line, Mr. Atanasov, or will you make a statement? No. There's no other statement. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the creation of § 1. [[Noise and lines.]] First we will vote on the editorial amendment made by Mrs. Lecheva and then the overall text. We are voting for Mrs. Lecheva's editorial amendment. Vote 124 MPs: 117 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Let us vote on the creation of a new § 1 with the corresponding editorial amendment that we voted on just now. They voted 125 MPs: 116, against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u117	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22, para. 4 the words "sports" and "sports" shall be replaced by "sports" as well as membership in an international sports organisation or rights granted by a member of an international sports organisation to organise sports activities in the sport type concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u118	Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Lecheva. If it's for your supplement, we'll put it in every article where necessary, so you don't have to mark it. Statements? I don't see any speeches. Please vote on the version of § 1, which becomes § 2, plus the editorial amendment of Mrs. Lecheva, which he made in § 1, it is also relevant to § 2. The same editorial amendment will be made in § 3. They voted 126 MPs: 119, none, abstentioned 7. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u119	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24, para. 1, t. 12 is finally added, or with rights withdrawn by a member of the international sports organisation, to organise sports activities in the sport type concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u120	Statements? I don't see any speeches. Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u121	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! My question is more procedural. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24 we cannot add Mrs. Lecheva's supplement for the statutes, by any means. It's about withdrawing a license and responding to the statutes of the Federation to which we revoke the license is nonsense. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u122	Okay, so no extra. Thank you, Mr. Manev. Any other speeches? I can't see. We are voting for the version of § 2, which becomes § 3, without the supplement. They voted 130 MPs: 122, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u123	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 134, p. 2 after the word "medialists" is added.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u124	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the version of § 3, which becomes § 4. They voted 132 MPs: for 131, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u125	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 135 the following 1. In para. 1 after the word "medialists" is added and after the word "damaged" is added as well as coaches and officials directly related to their training. 2. In para. 2 the word "Conditions" is replaced by "criteria," the conditions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u126	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the amendment of § 4, which becomes § 5. They voted 130 MPs: for 129, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u127	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u128	Colleagues, please be quiet in this room, it's too loud!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u129	Colleagues, I propose that we vote on the name "Transitional and final provisions."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u130	I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division supported by the Commission. They voted 133 MPs: 132, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u131	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... Children of Olympic medalists whose right to a lifelong monthly premium under art. 59b, para. 2, p. 5 of the repealed Law on Physical Education and Sports is terminated due to death before 18 January 2019, are entitled to monthly monetary assistance under art. 134, p. 4 if they meet the requirements of art. 137, para. One or two. The financial assistance shall be granted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 1. 137, para. 3.... 6..........................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u132	Statements? I don't see any speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the version of § 5, which shall become § 6 of the Commission Report. Vote 134 MPs: 133, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u133	Proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Iglika Sabeva. The Commission proposes to set up paragraphs 7 and 8: .................................................... In the Law on the Execution of Punishment and Detention of Prisons, art. is created. 22a: Art. 22a. The conditions and arrangements for the formation and payment of the additional remuneration for the results achieved in the work of the staff of the Directorate-General for Punishment and its territorial services shall be determined by a decree of the Minister of Justice. § 8. In the Law on the Judiciary in art. Paragraph 393 is created. 3: The conditions and procedures for the formation and payment of the additional remuneration for the results achieved in the work of the staff of the General Directorate of Security and its territorial units shall be determined by a decree of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u134	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I am voting on the new paragraphs 7 and 8, supported by the Commission. They voted 133 MPs: 131, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u135	Proposal of the MPs Mr. Ivan Chenchev and Mrs. Vesela Lecheva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of: 1. paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 which shall enter into force from 1 March 2020; 2. paragraph 6, which shall enter into force from 18 January 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u136	Here you are, Mr. Chenchev, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u137	Madam President, honourable Members! Thank you for reaching consensus on our proposal with colleague Vesela Lecheva, which once again proves that in Bulgaria sport is not a politicized topic in the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Here we give the opportunity, after the new law which you have drawn up, to pass the annual grace period of one year. Thank you for your attention and for your consensus.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u138	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. I shall put to the vote, colleagues, the editorial of § 6, which shall become § 9 of the Commission Report. Vote 124 MPs: for 123, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u139	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! One sentence. I thank all the parliamentary groups, the whole parliament for their tolerance for these changes. Thank you. [[Applause from OP and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u140	Thank you. Colleagues, let's move on to the next item: PRESENTLY TERMINATION OF THE COMMISSION'S PRESENT'S RIGHT TO PROVIDE CORRUPTION AND TO TAKE OFF INDEPENDENCE OF DEFINITELY ACCOMPLISHED PROCEEDANCE. A letter was received from the Vice-President of KKCONPI in the National Assembly: Mrs. Karayancheva, applied, we are sending you a Commission Decision on Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property with exit No TU 01-RD-05-230 from 31 July 2019. The solution is this: Today, July 31, 2019, in Sofia, the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, composed of: For Chairman: Anton Slavchev Member: Plamen Yotsov Member: Sylvia Kudareva, ARRANGEMENT: In connection with an application submitted by Plamen Georgiev Dimitrov, Chairman of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, on the basis of art. 11, para. 2 in relation to Art. 11, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property, and after examining the application, the Commission on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property HAS DECIDED On the basis of art. 11, para. 2 in relation to para. 1, t. 2 of the Anti-Corruption Act and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property proposes to the National Assembly to accept the resignation and terminate Plamen Georgiev Dimitrov's early engagement with the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. I'll read you the work draft decision, and I'll give you the floor if there is. Project! DECISION on early termination of the relationship of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 11, para. 1, t. 2 in relation to para. 2 of the Anti-Corruption Act and the forfeiture of illegally acquired property and on a proposal from the Commission to counter corruption and to withdraw illegally acquired property, according to its decision of 31 July 2019. HAS DECIDED Plamen Georgiev Dimitrov's relationship as Chairman of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property was suspended. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u141	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A moment ago, we applauded the adoption of one law and could have ended this session, but in just two minutes the Quaestors passed through the corridors, handed out a flyer from another institution, not from the National Assembly, but from the Anti-Corruption Commission. Two minutes later you ask: is there a debate, is there any speeches on this point? What statements might there be from people who had no idea five minutes ago that they would discuss, not just the fate of the KKCONPI chairman?! KKCONPI, which two years ago here for hours was described to us as that ubiquitous body that will break corruption in Bulgaria. KKCONPI, which is mentioned under the road and over the road every single day! The fate of her chairman between the lines will be determined without anyone knowing why this man resigned; what has he done so far; what has he failed to do; why has he failed to do it? The urgency is so much more incomprehensible that we at BSP have proposed an early termination of Mr. Plamen Georgiev's mandate on 4 April this year. So, in these few months, you have found no time to seriously discuss the question of what happened, what is happening, what is continuing to happen in this institution, but you have decided now, shortly before the last parliamentary control begins and before we go on vacation, to inform us that the Commission has urgently gathered and is proposing that we release it. Don't you think it's right that the man you were defending, the man we opposed, at least give him a chance to come, say what he did and what he didn't do? Don't you think it's right to have a normal and clear debate about whether the expectations that have been placed on this committee have come true, whether it has created more scandals than anything else? Don't you think it's right that the issue of institutional fight against corruption requires more than the obvious adjustment of posts here and there? Madam President, I find it procedurally unacceptable the way in which this item is proposed on the agenda. I believe that none of the Members of the National Assembly is able to take an informed attitude about it. I believe it should have at least been allocated to the portfolio committee. For those of you who do not remember, we in Parliament have such a portfolio committee dealing with these issues. This portfolio committee a few months ago refused to consider our proposals because no other procedures have been completed, including checks. They're not done yet. Unfortunately, all of this shows that these posts are viewed only as the caps, which one destroys and another mastery. We won't be involved in this. Another trend for the special authorities that will fight corruption is confirmed. Each time the same thing: the Euro.. institution.. Aman!? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u142	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u143	Thank you, Madam President. I'm making a procedural proposal. Mr. Georgiev is still President of the Commission. He's resigned. None of us understood the motives or reasons.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u144	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u145	My procedure is to be invited here to the National Assembly to hear his motives for this resignation, because we are talking about the model, we are talking about the KKCONPI, about the same name law that changes a hundred times, and it will probably change as much more. We had a procedure regarding the resignation of the President and the Vice-President. What happened to this procedure, to this parliamentary committee? We don't have an answer! As we do not have an answer to this rapid procedure within really two or three minutes to vote on the resignation of the President of the Commission. He was elected by the National Assembly. He has deposited his resignation before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u146	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u147	He follows here before the National Assembly to come to explain his reasons for this resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u148	I'll put your procedure to the vote. Please vote. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Just to remind you that I am moving strictly under the Law, which has been adopted in this House, the Anti-Corruption Act. It's listed in art. 11, para. 1: The powers of a Member of the Commission shall be terminated in advance by the National Assembly when resigning. Vote 151 MPs: 106, against 32, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. We are continuing the debate. [[Noise and lines.]] Do you have a procedure, Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u149	Thank you, Madam President. You want to continue with the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u150	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u151	Let's stop the point until it gets here. We just voted for the chairman. There's no point, we have nothing to discuss.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u152	We voted against the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u153	I am making a procedural proposal to stop the debate until the President of KKCONPI Mr. Georgiev arrives. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Let him order and then continue the discussions in his presence. That's why he's here to tell us what his motives are for this resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u154	Mr. Popov, we voted on your procedure to invite Mr. Georgiev. The gym doesn't want to. [[strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Georgiev to attend. We are continuing the debate. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u155	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My procedure is in the way of conduct because you have allowed to vote to be invited by Plamen Georgiev, who has made a personal statement with resignation. As a general rule, such a procedure is not being done so far, but simply the person in question is being invited at the request of the colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria. In this sense, I do not think it is right to interrupt the sitting, because we did not oblige him to attend, but we will invite him. There's plenty of room. [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] during the debates to invite Mr. Plamen Georgiev and if he wishes to come, to attend. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What do you expect his presence to take place here? He won't possibly withdraw his resignation. In any case, we already have a practice of the Constitutional Court, which provides that resignations are simply reaffirmed by the National Assembly. Please continue the meeting and be especially careful when you show kindness to the endless procedures of your fellow Members on the left. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u156	Okay, I'm giving Mr. Georgiev an oral invitation... [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Okay, the way you're leading it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, please refer to our Rules. When the National Assembly adopts a decision, all citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria are obliged to come here. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Why did you vote for him? [[Loud noise and lines.]] He is already obliged and should come to the National Assembly. So I'm asking for a five-minute break. Look at your regulations and apply it! Don't make it like last week, please. These Rules should be respected because they have the power of law. According to our Rules, when there is a decision of the National Assembly and is called into the National Assembly any citizen of the Republic of Bulgaria, he is obliged to come. [[Loud noise.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u158	Mr. Popov, I will read to you the Anti-Corruption Act for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, art. 11: The law of a Member of the Commission shall be terminated in advance by the National Assembly when resigning. It's a personal volition. Mr. Georgiev resigned, the Commission accepted his resignation, we invite him to come to the Chamber. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We are continuing the debate. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u159	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. Colleagues, on the last day and in the last hours of the session, let's not raise the pressure. The decisions of the National Assembly are a law in this country. Every Bulgarian citizen called in this Chamber with a decision of the MPs must implement the decision of the National Assembly. In this regard, the National Assembly, whether you are confused or confused, whether consciously or unconsciously, but the National Assembly has decided Mr. Plamen Georgiev to appear in this Chamber [[beeping loudly]] It's decided to be in this room. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] They are invited, honourable Members, ministers are invited, for which no decision is taken, and for all other citizens you know, a decision is taken by the National Assembly. In this regard, I ask you to comply with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u160	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I'll give you 10 minutes off. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u161	Dear colleagues, we are continuing with the discussions on Mr. Georgiev's resignation. You have the floor to speak. [[Noise and lines.]] No speeches? [[Loud noise and lines.]] Since there are no speeches, I will close the debate and move on to the vote. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm closing the debate. [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) A line from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov.)]] I closed the debate, Mr. Ermenkov. You'll be entitled to a negative vote. Please, a voting regime on the draft decision I read just now. The decision is about the early termination of the relationship of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. Vote 126 MPs: 120 against 3, abstention 3. The proposal is accepted and with this Mr. Georgiev's resignation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u162	It's the way it's supposed to be. You're welcome to join us in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u163	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take this opportunity under the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly to point out, in the manner of leading the arrogant attitude towards the debate by you, Madam President, with the suspension and non-disclosure of the possibility of expressing respect for the resignation submitted. A break was given for Mr. Plamen Georgiev to arrive and to hear his motives for his volition. You have not given him the opportunity to express his attitude or to continue the debate. I understand that this is a strategic reserve, guarded by Boyko Borisov
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u164	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Yankov! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u165	I graduated, Madame Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u166	I'd said 10 minutes we'd wait, you'd have to be in the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u167	How many minutes are you waiting for?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u168	We wait as long as it takes. On several occasions, I have called for debate. There was no hand raised to speak by the MPs and I ended the debate. In the manner of holding Mrs. Stoyanova, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u169	Madam President, I am also outraged by the way you are leading this meeting. You had 40 minutes while we were waiting for Mr. Plamen Georgiev to come so you could find a tack and a tranq so you could invite your colleagues to the left. [[Applause from GERB]] to be in the hall, and to take the floor. Perhaps you should have passed, Madame Chairman, in the rooms before then or in the chair? Maybe you'd have to go to the restaurant on the north side.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u170	No publicity.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u171	But it is your duty, Madam President, to secure a debate after we have called Mr. Plamen Georgiev here! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Another one in the way you're holding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u173	Dear Madam President, in the manner of conduct! I don't know if you think you're mocking us. You're mocking the Bulgarian citizens. [[GERB's loud noise and lines]] You make fun of the man you've chosen, and now you're chasing, mocking the hundreds of inspectors at KKCONPI who don't know what's happening to them, mocking absolutely everyone who's out of this room! [[Loud noise and lines.]] In the manner of conduct: the idea for our holiday was to come Mr. Plamen Georgiev and to say first that he really resigned [[GERB's loud noise and lines]] that this volition is made freely, that there are reasons for it, to say what it has managed to achieve, to say what it has failed to achieve and why.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u174	Mr. Zarkov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u175	This is not an opposition debate, it is a hearing of one of the most important authorities in this country, at least in your opinion. [[(Comments from GERB:]] This is the procedure in the manner of conduct and this was the idea of this holiday. Don't be in such a hurry to leave! You have two months to rest from now on. Now do your job! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u176	By groups to show who voted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u177	Please show in groups. I don't know if we can show anymore. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] We'll try to show them in groups. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u178	Madam President, you were in such a hurry to pass this procedure and this resignation that you did not even invite Mr. Georgiev to the Chamber. He came here to parliament and sat somewhere on the sidelines. [[(Strong noise and lines from GERB: Here it is! It's here!]] You didn't let him in the Chamber, you didn't put this procedure to the vote. You should have put this procedure to the vote. Mr. Georgiev even entered the Chamber and listened to it. [[Loud noise.]] It's not about us listening to us. We don't file the resignations.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u179	Mr. Popov, read your rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u180	Mr. Georgiev resigned and he had to come here on the stand to explain his motives. You didn't give that opportunity at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u181	We voted and gave Mr. Georgiev the right to enter the Chamber. He's sitting in the back row. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] With the procedure you did... [[Strong noise from BSP for Bulgaria.]] With the adoption of the proposal. [[Noise and lines.]] In the manner of holding Mr. Ermenkov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u182	Mrs. Chairman! In the chaos of the entry of MPs, including the ruling majority, you did not notice that I had raised my hand to speak, and very timely. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] If you want, you can look at the records. I would ask you in this regard, if you have the little respect for the Bulgarian people, if you have the little respect for parliamentaryism, if you have the little respect for this main scourge in Bulgaria and the fight against it, I mean more precisely respect for the fight against corruption in Bulgaria, cancel this vote and give us the opportunity to make the relevant discussions! Because what you are doing right now, Madam President, is sweeping the problems under the carpet, but, unfortunately, any such sweep raises such dust that there is a danger of suffocating democracy with this dust in Bulgaria. Please cancel the vote and let us make the appropriate speeches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u183	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. There is no such procedure, I will not cancel the vote. Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. We're moving on to parliamentary control. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Who voted negative? [[Reply by MP Milko Nedyalkov.]] Have you voted negative? [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) A line from the MP Milko Nedyalkov.)]] Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u184	Madam President, honourable Members! By this I would like to say that I listened very carefully to what the President of the National Assembly promised that whoever could not speak would be entitled to a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u185	Here, I gave it to you!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u186	My negative vote is that, with the entire procedure that was beaten up in the National Assembly, we once again humiliated the bodies that were created by the National Assembly. We have humiliated the Law we adopt, humiliated the work of the few remaining conscientious people who work in this huge fight against corruption, against prevention. [[GERB lines.]] Yeah, there's not many of them! Because with everything here we have shown that it is a game, a game to society that will never believe this National Assembly, that it is a factor in the fight against corruption! As well as members of the Commission to which I am a member and members of the Anti-Corruption Commission and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. Even the little you had done today, the National Assembly with this procedure crossed it off! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u187	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Second negative vote? I can't see. Colleagues, we're moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. We move on to the written answers from: - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Anton Kutev and Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Milen Mihov; - Minister of Regional Development Petya Avramova to two questions from the MPs Alexander Ivanov and Alexander Nenkov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Angel Isaev; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Ivan Ibrishimov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the MPs Atanas Kostadinov and Ilian Timchev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on two questions from the National Representative Emil Dimitrov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev. Mladen Marinov will be the first to answer a question of the MP Veska Marinova Nencheva concerning a police station in the village of Rozino, Karlovo municipality. Here you are, Mr. Kutev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u188	Madam President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct and is related to a question to Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, which I have released about a month ago. My question has been returned by you with the strange argument that it does not concern the Prime Minister, but it concerns, note, two Deputy Prime Ministers - Krasimir Karakachanov and Ekaterina Zaharieva. I would like to remind you that there are four deputy prime ministers in this country. And when one question concerns two deputy prime ministers, that means at least half the government's work. When it comes to a sphere of security, which is the only sphere Boyko Borisov has left for himself in the distribution of responsibilities in government, you have absolutely no reason to return my question! My question concerns something extremely important, by the way, and these are government policies in the field of national security in the context of a growing global geopolitical environment. And in particular, it is about the fact that on 2 August, the United States is finally expected to emerge from the mid-range missile treaty, which Russia will also do. In other words, the global security environment that has existed for the past 30 years has changed completely. From now on, she'll be completely different. This concerns Bulgaria particularly much, because Bulgaria is one of those countries, which is just so far away from Russia that these missiles are the main thing that concerns us. We are a member of a collective security body, such as NATO and members of the European Union, but at the same time we have done nothing that will in any way ensure our security after the collapse of one of the key treaties that concern modern nuclear security. And in this situation you consider that this is not a question that refers to Boyko Borisov, which I think is scandalous and disturbing at all... That is, you have no right to do so, and as President of the National Assembly, let alone that you have no moral right to afford it. But even more outrageous in the whole matter is that on 12 July I have still put this question to Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva, but to this day she will not be able to come to answer me. Meanwhile, it has been a month, and in just a few days, as I said, on August 2nd, the exit of the United States and Russia from the Treaty is taking place. That is, for half a year, for which this drama is developing, the Bulgarian government does not know where it is on this issue and has no opinion, at least judging by the development we are currently seeing. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I appeal to you, respect your obligations, you cannot return a question to me when it is obviously directed at the one to whom the Prime Minister should be, and it cannot be true that when this concerns two Deputy Prime Ministers, this is half the government. Of course the Prime Minister should be responsible then.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u189	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. As far as I understand the question, you appealed to him under art. 107, I brought him back, you appealed to him and addressed him to Minister Zaharieva. So expect an answer from her will come. [[Heckling]] He's got appointments. A declaration on behalf of a group, please, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u190	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This session of the National Assembly also ends. Today we have our last meeting, our last day of work. In the first usually all parliamentary groups solemnly present priorities and what we will do for Bulgaria and for the people. In the last one, we usually leave quietly and go on vacation. It would be good for this practice to change, and that is why today we from BSP for Bulgaria will evaluate the session, the ruling majority and self-assessment, of course. When you claim to appreciate others, you must have the power to self-evaluate yourself. Dear rulers, government and MPs of the majority! You brought in twenty-one laws without the ratifications. We can argue whether they're good or bad from our point of view or from your point of view. However, it is best to assess how they influenced Bulgaria and the Bulgarian citizens. I will start with economics and finance as the basis of any policy. You have adopted the Law on concessions, although it was related to the Black Sea coast. The issue of concession at Sofia airport was reopened. You gave the concession to the airport. The result for Bulgaria is an assessment by Europe of the way you conduct it. I ask you: is there any other public procurement in Bulgaria that is appealed by all participants except by the winner? No. We have talked about the importance of national security for Bulgaria from this deal many times. But that's what you did. Energy Act. The result: employers expressed a position for monstrous market manipulations, because of which the Bulgarian business pays the highest price of electricity in Europe. Some of the businesses closed down and freed their workers. The effect of this law on consumers is increasing the price of electricity. It's a black sea coast design law. The result: Bulgarian beaches are deserted, Bulgaria lost to the tourism industry and the tourist sector revenues. However, the plugs along the borders for Greece or on entry into Bulgaria from the Bulgarians who come from Europe are monstrous because of the bad organization of the Bulgarian government. Further, you adopted in the financial sphere the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. The result: the state transferred the responsibility to the natural persons to monitor money laundering for accountants, lawyers, and in the original version of Chitalishtes and kindergartens. The effect of this law has so far not a single teacher in kindergarten has caught money laundering and will not have such an effect on this insane law. You have updated the country's budget. The state's impact is close to 2 billion new deficits and 500 000 million debt. The effect for the Bulgarians will have to pay it out of their pocket someday. Let's see what you did in health care. Hospitals are closing down, drug prices are rising, people have no access to healthcare during this session, except once again a model for health reform, which is rejected by absolutely all the people affected by it. In words, a model of reform. Transport "The Law of Roads," you postponed the system. What's the effect? You robbed the people of the monthly billings, made them pay for it. That is, they pay more. This is the result of this law. For all these problems for farmers, you have passed the Agricultural Aid Act for one purpose only............................................. the result of the guest houses..................................... This is also the effect of this law, but there is another for Bulgaria 10 million. lv. fine. Who's gonna pay for it? Bulgarian citizens. You reached out to the rights of Bulgarian citizens by taking away their engine vote. You threw political life in the backyard by giving business and oligarchy the opportunity to finance political parties. This is what you have done for this session, dear rulers. What did BSP do? A clear and specific alternative on all these topics with strong arguments. You didn't hear us. We have introduced the following alternative: reducing the VAT on medicines and food, aid for young working families for raising a child, tax relief for working parents for their children, recalculating all pensions. What would it cost the state? Nearly 2 billion. lv. How many people would these BSP laws help? Nearly $2 million. You'll say there's no money. Last year you spent 2 billion out of the budget, this year you're only a little over 1 billion in the half-year. Money is important who spends it on what. I just said what you and our alternative is for. The alternative is clear and autumn it will show up, but now for the current.. that was the past months. At what point does the session end? With two severe crises with data leak from the NRA, the result is that 5 million Bulgarians are thrown into uncertainty about ownership and their personal data. Bulgaria was given a severe assessment of the government that an entire nation was hacked. The second crisis is swine fever. Europe has given you an assessment of the government has not done its job and Bulgaria could lose all pig farming due to the negligence of the government. This is the effect of these crises, but there are subsequent crises. The prices went up a little bit. The imports will increase, which will affect the trade balance of Bulgaria and the economic situation. This is the momentary picture in which we are leaving Parliament, but no one has been responsible for these two crises either. Another time, at least from the best man's shame you say resignation. We are responsible and resigned. Nothing this time! The government is holding back against the backdrop of these crises. The Prime Minister is hiding. The only comment he made during that time was to comment on the Buzludzha Council. We know that every year on this day the Prime Minister gets depressed. But to comment on the council of the left, but not to go out in front of your people in these crises that have struck the country, and it is your fault that it is irresponsible. All parliamentary questions to him are returned with non-essential arguments and it turns out that at the moment there is no leadership in the country. He's holding the wheel of a train, on a boat, on an electrician, on a scooter maybe, but there's no one to hold the wheel of the country. He missed the helm of the state. The key word for us for this season, after these facts, is the uncertainty of national uncertainty and uncertainty of every Bulgarian citizen in all its dimensions. However, we also have in the near future elections for mayors and municipal councilors, budget and election of the Prosecutor General. We know that all political energy will be thrown into the elections, but they will also pass, and the most important issue will stand for the budget, for incentives for the economy, for increasing incomes, for reducing inequalities, for municipal and state health, for justice and judicial reform. From now on, think that October will quickly come... how we will solve these issues! Speaking of judicial reform, I would like to say a few words about the election of the Attorney General. Makes the impression that everyone's staring at BSP. Everyone's asking BSP. Everyone is waiting for what BSP will say and no one is asking this one person who needs it and who depends on it. His name is Boyko Metodiev Borisov. And now I'll tell you why! The only person who could have secured a race between two candidates at least a race! It is Boyko Borisov. For viewers and listeners who expect the BSP to make a decision on this subject, just to say that they should know because they do not know by law the only ones who can offer the Attorney General are either independent prosecutors or the Minister of Justice, i.e. the government. Neither parties, nor MPs, nor we from BSP can make such a proposal. If we could, we would! So. What's the situation? We waited for the 29th, saying we'd follow procedure and respect the rules. But we actually waited for them to understand and hope that Borisov would show common sense and submit a second application. Alas, his severe addictions did not allow him that courage. For us, he is a participant in the agreement to raise a single candidate. The BSP is not involved in such talks! They're protesting right now. And they call BSP to the rescue. And they're waiting for BSP to say what. I want to remind you what this is about. The same right was part of Borisov's government. The same right-wing ones made this model a reform of the judiciary. Do you remember, honourable Members, that we divided the SJC into a prosecutor's and judge's quota on a proposal from these right-wings? Do you remember, dear Bulgarians, that BSP was against this division then and now? We told you then and now that you're going to get to this dead end. You didn't listen to us again! At the moment, the two groups that built this model consciously fought over who to head it. And they all turn to BSP and say, "You now, what?" Like a year ago! Just like before! We're proposing a change of model. No matter how you fight for this guy or that guy as a name, until we change the pattern, we don't decide anything. Once again, I present to you our proposal, which we will submit in September. The only way for justice and justice and a reformed justice system in this House to act unanimously and enforce judicial control over the prosecution's acts. It's called: a change in the Law on the Judiciary! That's the solution. If you expect BSP to propose a solution on the case, that is the solution. See if you'll support him in the fall. I asked a lot of themes about vacations, a little like school, when before we split up, we were given a list of books to read in the summer. Read and think! That we've got a hot fall ahead of us. Thank you. [[Applause and cheers by "BSP for Bulgaria": "Bravo, bravo!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Now I think we can continue with parliamentary control. The first question is to the Minister of Interior Mr. Mladen Marinov from the National Representative Veska Marinova Nencheva concerning police station in the village of Rozino, Karlovo municipality. Here you go, Ms. Nencheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u192	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mr. Minister! On 21 June 2019 we witnessed another rude violation of public order by two Roma families in the village of Rozino, Karlovo municipality. The inhabitants of the village of Rozino and the neighboring settlements once again experienced the horror of the invasion and the threat to their security and life. My question to you is, when will a police station be opened in the village of Rozino? I don't accept an answer with the information known for all the information I already have on the opening of two police receptions. I'm asking about a police station! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u193	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Here you are, Minister, for an answer. I would like to say that I will see to it that we strictly observe the time, as parliamentary control today is quite long. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u194	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Nencheva, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! In connection with incidents in the village of Rozino, Karlovo municipality, I assure you that the Ministry of Interior is taking targeted measures to ensure the security of citizens, reduce domestic crime and prevent violations of public order in Roma communities. The Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in Plovdiv actively interacts with all institutions related to the problems and topics related to the growing compact Roma communities in the municipality of Karlovo. A total of five meetings have been held since the beginning of 2019 with the participation of the Ministry of Interior, the municipal mayor and mayors of settlements, representatives of Committees of Initiatives and the administrative head of the District Prosecution of Karlovo. During the last meeting of 12 June 2019 discussed in particular all issues concerning public policy and security in the area, including the establishment of a reception area. According to an analysis of the criminogenic situation in the territory of the settlements with predominantly Roma population, there is a need for the construction and establishment of a police station for the implementation of patrol-post work and reception for citizens according to the example of the Roma neighborhood in Asenovgrad. In this way, prevention and increased police presence in the village of Rozino will be ensured and citizens' access to police services will be improved. The proposal met approval by both representatives of the initiative committee and the municipal mayor. On 27 June 2019 the Municipal Council of the municipality of Karlovo submitted a coherent proposal for the designation of terrains and the allocation of funds for placing and equipment at a police station, and the Ministry of Interior is prepared, once the police station is built, to ensure the necessary number of employees in optimal achievement of the objectives for the protection of public order and prevention in the territory of the settlement. It should be pointed out that given the preventive measures taken by the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate Plovdiv, the criminogenic situation on the territory of the Regional Government In relation to the above, as well as after the incidents on 22 and 23 June 2019, a special police operation has taken place in the village of Rozino with several main tasks: maintaining an enhanced police presence in the territory of Roma neighborhoods, identifying persons and belongings involved in criminal activity, establishing and detaining persons wanted for criminal offences, property and parts of motor vehicles, as well as measures to improve traffic safety by carrying out traffic controls, checking addresses for illegal possession and storage of firearms, ammunition and other prohibited items. From the so implemented specialized police operation at present, the following results are reported: 175 houses have been checked and adjacent buildings have been checked and the identity of a total of 385 persons has been removed, 124 motor vehicles have been checked... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u195	Maybe after that you'll finish up. You have the floor for the back, Ms. Nencheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u196	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, I didn't get an answer to the question I specifically asked you. It's about things that are already known to the public. We know that at the last municipal session the Municipal Council in Karlovo voted 36 thousand. lv. from the budget of the municipality of Karlovo for the construction of a police reception hall following the example of the municipality of Asenovgrad. Such a reception is to be built in Stryama district in Banya city. But this does not answer the question of what is happening to the expected police station, because you yourself know that the functions of one and the other have a slightly different degree of impact, provided that in the situation of 21, 22 and 23 June there are 52 people detained for 24 hours, illegally seized rifles, ammunition and gas pistols. And whatever statistics you give me here, the tensions in the area continue to be serious, the increased police presence of course there is, especially who travels along the sub-Balkan road, can understand and all this, all this tension can be controlled by additional police states. This can only happen with the opening of a police station. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u197	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u198	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Nencheva, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I did not complete the answer to the question, but, as I understand from the National Representative Ms. Nencheva, most likely the statistics are not interesting, although it talks about improving the operational situation in this populated area, and not only there. With regard to the difference between a reception and a police station, these are really two different things. However, on the basis of the analysis, the decision was adopted that at this stage a reception in this settlement would achieve the necessary effect. Moreover, we have an example from the reception hall built in this neighborhood in Asenovgrad. It is more important for us to have a police presence on the ground among the people, namely the reception room allows the forces that work not to be put into duty units, in administrative service entirely, but to work on the ground. At the same time, the reception room enables citizens to have faster access to the relevant signals and receive specific information and guidance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u199	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Two questions are next with a common answer. The first issue by the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev on measures to address the problem of congestion at the Maca border crossing point. Here you are, Mr. Yordanov, to develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u200	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Ministers! Since the two issues are of the same subject, I suggest, if you don't mind, that we unite them. I am even more authorized by colleagues Manol Genov and Ilian Timchev to do so. Dear Minister, once again, I ask a question concerning the situation of the border crossings. The question has been raised repeatedly, and it is always in the summer period of the year. It is simply surprising that the Bulgarian state is so powerless to do nothing. In the end, it is about a situation that is between 20 and 25 days a year and it is known exactly what days are, what hours there are problems at the point. It's about a point at the entrance that's being subjected to a possible migratory wave. I mean, we have to take action. After all, there are no basic conditions, such as a stationary toilet or a place where you can buy a water. My question, as there is a chronic problem with those passing through the point in entry or exit from Bulgaria, is: are you planning to do something to ease the situation at this point? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u201	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov to understand that the MPs Genov and Yankova will not take advantage of their two minutes to develop their question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u202	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u203	Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u204	Thank you. Mr. President of the National Assembly, I have united the answers if we could use a little more time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u205	Yes, of course, you're entitled to the six minutes as you're entitled to.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u206	Thanks, I'll handle it shorter. Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, Dear Gentlemen Yordanov and Timchev, Dear Mrs. Yankova and Mr. Genov, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen of the National Assembly! At the beginning of the active summer season this year, traffic from Bulgaria to Greece was increased by more than 25% compared to last year. At the same time, 65% of passing cars travel minors, who, you know, are subject to special regime and verification. During the weekends, especially intensive is the traffic of light cars, without the crossing of the tower and the crossing of Makaza, which are both the busiest checkpoints from a total of six on the Bulgarian-Greek border. In response to this question, I assure you that both the professional and political leadership of the Ministry of Interior are inspecting and on the spot familiarizing themselves with the problems caused by significant increases in traffic to the Hellenic Republic. As a result, working measures have been taken in a timely manner to address the difficulties, including the border crossings. The following specific measures have been taken only since the beginning of July to ensure the normal transmission capacity of the Bulgarian-Greek border: in the first place, additional staff from the border police are posted; mobile teams work in the control area and the Directorate of Communication and Information Systems at the Ministry of Interior has set up an organisation for the placing of mobile modules to work outside the crossing point, with the aim of increasing the transmission of points; an organisation has been established for buses to be separated and checked by mobile devices in a place after which to pass directly through the relevant crossing point without making it difficult for the passage of passenger cars; in the event of the international contracts and participation in the tasks resulting from Schengen, more serious checks are imposed. Information on the traffic and loading of the border crossings in real time is uploaded on the website of the Ministry of Interior and on the website of the Border Police. In case of intensive traffic, alternative options are indicated for crossing other points at the respective border. Actions shall be made to synchronise the traffic management system with the Traffic Infrastructure Agency for the purpose of using the information capabilities of their system. As far as the border crossing is concerned, I inform you that a decision has been made to ease the increased border checks. Bulgaria's decision was announced in due order to the other countries of the European Union, the European Commission and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency. The Interdepartmental Council on Border Control on 4 July this year has decided to make a proposal to the Council of Ministers to provide funding for the extension of the border crossings, as well as for additional staff. In relation to the summer tourist season, employees are provided for all available jobs to carry out border checks on the first line, and meetings were held with representatives of the Greek Border Service before the beginning of the season. They have also decided that during this summer season the flexible use of border checks routes will continue, such as the same "depending on the load and direction of the traffic of motor vehicles," can be used simultaneously for entry and exit from Bulgaria. Our country has again raised the question of ensuring a reciprocal number of Greek officials for border checks on the first line. The Greek side has committed itself to ensuring reciprocity for June, and for July and August there is no confirmation. An additional employee to regulate the flow of road vehicles is provided for the improvement of the organisation of movement in the area of the point. Regarding the question put by Mrs. Jankova and Mr. Genov to improve the working conditions of the teams of border police officers of the border crossings, Macaza............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In accordance with art. 7a of the same regulation: The land estates on which the crossings are built, regulated land estates designated for the crossings, and the buildings built on them, as well as the technical infrastructure which are not represented for the management of ministers or directors of other departments for the performance of functions related to the performance of border controls, are managed by the Director of the Customs Agency. In the area of the border crossing, the Director of the Customs Agency shall ensure the maintenance, implementation and management of the building fund and the public-state property. In conclusion, I would like to inform you that the measures taken in due time have already been effective and in recent weeks there has been a serious normalisation of the crossing of both the crossing and the crossing of the border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u207	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Yordanov, you have two minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u208	Dear Minister, thank you. It is obvious that the Ministry of Interior is thinking about this issue, but the point is that the measures are not so effective. I agree with you, they're taken, but if we go Saturday morning, you'll see what it's about and I recommend you go see what it's about. Clearly, we have an hour of differentiation here. It is clear that in the morning hours the stream is from Bulgaria to Greece and the afternoon. I think these tapes can be exchanged effectively to make things happen faster. You simply owe it to the Bulgarian citizens and not only to the Bulgarians, but also to the Romanians, who are the main airlines. In your person, I also thank the employees who really do their job perfectly and help the situation somewhat to be controlled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u209	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? No. We move on to the next question by the National Representative Nikolay Tishev concerning the restrictive signs for speed of 90 km/h between 168 and 208 km in both directions of the highway Here you are, Mr. Tishev, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u210	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, due to compromise, understand failure, bumps, bumps and so on, and on the route between 168 and 208 km in both directions of the highway In response to a parliamentary question in March 2019, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works informed that by the Decision of the Regional Road Management "Stara Zagora," the speed limit was introduced by Order No 1330 of 19 December 2018 until 31 March 2019. The deadline for speed limitation was subsequently increased again and this time was until September 2019. BGN required for the implementation of the repair. I must point out that only the right lane has been compromised in both directions until the left lane is a problem. Almost daily at the beginning of the respective section in both directions, there is a presence of Road Police with automated technical means for speed control, as a result of which the drivers are fined for speed exceeding 90 km/h, even though they are located on the motorway. According to the Bulgarian legislation, the speed limit should be 140 km/h, that is, instead of an autoban with a limit of 140 km/h, Bulgarian citizens who have paid taxes for the construction of the highway are moving not even on a speed road with a limit of 120 km/h, but on some long-distance, interurban road with a limit of 90 km/h. My questions to you are as follows: how many drivers are fined for speeding in the above section within the current limit of 90 km/h? Given that the poor condition of the pavement in the right hand side in both directions is the cause of the speed limitation imposed, i.e. only in the right arm, is there a possibility for the more flexible application of this restriction in that section? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u211	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to respond within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u212	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Tishev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The road network in the Republic of Bulgaria includes two types of roads, namely Republican highways, and local roads, being municipal and private. Road management is carried out as follows: the Republican roads from the Road Infrastructure Agency, the municipal roads from the mayors of the respective municipalities, the private roads from their owners. According to art. 9, para. 3 of the Roads Act, owners or administration managing the roads, may introduce temporary prohibitions for the public use of separate roads or sections thereof in the course of repair, in the event of natural disasters and accidents, in adverse water heating mode of the pavement, in the event of danger to traffic security and in the event of mass sporting events, and they shall be introduced after consultation with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. The authorities of the Ministry of Interior have powers to work under the Road Traffic Act and direct control of the traffic on motorways. In all cases where there is a temporary organisation of the movement by the Road Infrastructure Agency, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior issue the relevant individual administrative acts against the offenders of the Road Traffic Act. In relation to the question asked by you, how many motor vehicles are fined for speeding in the specified section of the highway "Trakiya" within the current limit of 90 km/h, I provide you with the following information: For the period from 19 December 2018 to 30 July 2019 in the area of the highway "Trakiya" the temporary organisation of the movement from km 168 to km 208+100 was introduced in relation to the implementation of control at a speed limit of 90 km/h and a total of 4546 motor vehicle drivers were sanctioned. Regarding your second question, I inform you about the more flexible application of this restriction in that section: Together with the employees of the District Road Management, Stara Zagora is a thoughtful option for changing the temporary organisation of the movement at different speeds, speed limits in the left and right, but the opinion of the District Road Management was that a danger to the movement in that area would be created and no actions were taken to change the temporary organisation of the movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u213	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the right to a line, Mr. Tishev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u214	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! For me what's happening, I could call it state racketeering. The state itself creates a problem by not repairing the area and with this inaction introduces absurd restrictions, in this case 90 km on the highway, and then starts fined the Bulgarian drivers and drivers for non-compliance with this restriction. As you mentioned, the Road Traffic Act makes it possible for such roads to limit the maximum speed allowed for a separate road lane, using two characters, I will not quote them now, but they are E1 and B26, that is, in this section for the right and for the left lane, different restrictions can be placed. As Minister of Interior, you know best that these restrictions are not respected, that is, in the right lane, drivers can't drive more than 90 km because they will break their cars, and in the left lane they are driving 130 km, as it is not problematic. I don't know what kind of advice he's collected, what kind of analysis he's done to make a decision about a limit for both the left and the right lane, to be at the same time 90 kilometers. Both the Regional Road Management "Stara Zagora," and your representatives in Stara Zagora and in Plovdiv, and the Ministry of Interior know that these restrictions, due to their absurdity, are not respected in the left lane. I do not know if there is a legal analysis after the introduction of the restrictions, is there a difference in the crashes in this section of the highway and in others, but my advice is because the answer of the Minister of Regional Development is similar March month when he is asked this question, which you are referring to this case. At the moment, you know very well that in the left lane the limit is not respected and the only reaction is fines, fines, fines! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u215	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? No. We move on to the next question by the National Representative Georgi Gokov on the application of unregulated conditions and requirements for the issue of Bulgarian personal documents. Here you are, Mr. Gokov. Two minutes to develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members, ministers! Mr. Minister, my formal question is a violation. You will hear it, but I will start by constantly changing the legislation that concerns violations of road traffic rules, and one of the directions is increasing fines. The dramatic increase in fines, which we have taken legislatively in recent years, has hardly had a particular effect unless it increases the collection rate. Statistics show that drivers don't pay the tickets for trespassing. Without claiming accuracy, at the moment the collection rate is only about 30%, while in other European countries it is 80 90%. In Bulgaria there are even more than 100 people with 150 criminal warrants and accumulated fines of more than 20 thousand. lv. I approve of the efforts of the Ministry of Interior to increase the collection of these fines, but everything must be regulated in laws and regulations. My question to you is provoked by the information appearing in the media that when submitting documents for international passports citizens receive notifications that they have unpaid fines under the Road Traffic Act. In order for their passport to be issued, they must pay the fine imposed on them by the DMV. The victims are in the dark because they receive only one notification, and not the ticket.. There is no number, no information about what the fine is and what the fine is imposed for, no information about the way and place of its payment. The questions to you, Minister, are: on what legal or other basis do you bind the payment of the fine imposed by the DMV under the Road Traffic Act with the issuance of Bulgarian identity documents under the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act? Are there other such hidden and unknown requirements and conditions for issuing Bulgarian personal documents to Bulgarian citizens? Are there other services provided by the departments of the Ministry of Interior which are regulated or not bound by the payment of the fines imposed? Once again, I note that the question I am asking you is rather formal, but the main question is the collection of fines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u217	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Marinov, you have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u218	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Gokov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents lays down the terms and conditions for their issuance, use and storage. In accordance with art. 1, para. 3 of the same law, the refusal to issue Bulgarian personal documents, their withdrawal and the imposition of other restrictions related to their use and storage are governed by law. There are no grounds for limiting the rights of citizens in the legislation in force, both with regard to the application for an identity card or passport, and upon receipt of the relevant document. A restriction exists only in respect of the issue and service of a driving licence. According to the provision of art. 159, para. 2 of the Road Traffic Act shall not be issued a driving licence for a motor vehicle or its duplicate, and the withdrawn licence shall not be refunded until the fines due in full are paid. In order to improve administrative service and in order to achieve the necessary preventive effect of sanctions imposed under the Road Traffic Act, the Ministry of Interior has taken action to make citizens better informed. An application for the issue of Bulgarian personal documents is provided for an identity document, an identity card of a Bulgarian citizen, a passport, a driving licence for a motor vehicle to be made automated check for criminal decrees which are not served and for fines under the Road Traffic Act which are not paid voluntarily. A notification is intended to be given as a consequence of which the person should be directed to the units of the Road Police and the time limits for the voluntary payment of the fines and the consequences of their possible non-payment. I stress once again that in the case of an application for an identity card or passport, the rights of citizens are not limited and there is no legal basis for refusing to issue and serve them. First of all, the purpose of this type of inspection is to inform the persons in due time that they are subject to issued and unspoken penal decrees and tickets, which, by the way, may also be on the relevant website of the Ministry of Interior. Secondly, it aims to prevent the application of the provisions of the Article concerned. Having this preliminary information, we will not get to the hypothesis of applying art. 171, p. 1 of the Road Traffic Act, namely the temporary withdrawal of a driving licence until payment of the fines due. The establishment of the organisation is indeed intended to inform citizens in a timely manner in any legal way in order to avoid precisely the application of art. 171, and in support of what you are saying, our efforts to increase the collection of the fines imposed, as this is a guarantee of the effectiveness of the relevant norms and of the corresponding fines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u219	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Before I give you the floor for a reply, Mr. Gokov, let me tell you that you must prepare yourself for your next question as Minister Goranov will answer before Minister Ananiev. Let's get the rest of our coworkers ready. Here you go. You've got two minutes for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u220	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! Mr. Minister, thank you for your reply and I'm glad you're thinking about the collection. I would like to say again and point out that I firmly stand behind the idea of increasing the collection rate from the fines. It is unacceptable not to collect the fines, but no less acceptable for them to be collected in an unacceptable, unregulated manner. The point is to have a collection rate that leads to prevention of relapses, because if the penalty is not applied effectively, everyone thinks they can do whatever they want, break all the laws, and if they get away with it, they'll get away with it every time. You have experts, do an analysis of where we can increase the collection rate, because it is not normal in Bulgaria to be 30% and in other European countries to be 80. 90%. Propose measures. I don't think there's gonna be anyone in this room who doesn't support them as long as they're okay. I am not a fan of binding unpaid fines to administrative services. If anyone needs it, I'll give you an example of the passport case. I hope they do, as you say, have not been denied the service. That is to say to them that the passport is issued and that is not a condition for the payment of the fine, because we can get to the point where you need a document from the National Insurance Institute, but only after you clear your obligation for the unpaid fine, which is unacceptable for me. For explainable reasons, I do not approve of participation in this entire process and of private judicial contractors. Since 2006 the Law allows private judicial contractors to collect fines. Such a practice is not applied by the Road Police. I welcome this because, in the case of such participation of private judicial contractors, the fine will become double, and in the case of smaller fines, the value of the costs of a private contractor will exceed ten times their size. However, the fine is to have a raising and abstentional effect, not to feed private court contractors. Perhaps a measure such as this Ministry of Interior to take away driver's licenses with unpaid fines for more than 45 days after the release of the ticket, that is, when the data on the money due is sent for collection at the revenue agency, the National Revenue Agency will do the trick. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Measures are needed, but you understand that if we do not apply them, there will be no effect of the fines, no matter how much we increase them legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u221	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? No. This runs out of control of the Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov. Thank you for your participation. We move on to the questions to Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov. The first question is from the National Representative Georgi Gokov concerning inconveniences related to crossing and staying at the Border Control Post. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers! Dear Mr. Goranov, my question is about inconveniences related to the passage and stay of the Border Control Post You know where the checkpoint is, you know how long it's been built, you know the infrastructure parameters of the checkpoint, I'm not going to repeat them as I put them in my question. I'm just gonna take the liberty of telling you about the workload. The burden of summer months is high. Last summer's 2018 statistics show that an average of 24 hours across Macaza has passed 3411 vehicles. Their number for 24 hours in July was 4208 and in August was 4678. On average, they were 195 a day, 143 an hour. That's what I figured, so 2.4 cars a minute. A lot! In this case, all these are statistics only, but the point has become a place that is preferred as perhaps the closest to the Greek coast, and is used by more and more people. It is inexplicable that there are no toilets and elementary conditions for residence at this point. At the entrance and exit are placed so-called chemical toilets, but due to their hygienic state it is impossible to use them. I've taken pictures I can show you, but I don't think it's necessary to wave these pictures here. Currently there is no possibility for simple sanitary conditions. This in every way destroys the tourist image of Bulgaria, not to mention the inconveniences caused, although there are no heavy trucks passing. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] All these people who are going to carry out some tourism from Bulgaria to Greece, from Greece to Bulgaria, including all Romanians, suffer from it and it hits the image of the Bulgarian state. I think it's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u223	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Goranov, you have three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u224	Dear Mr Vigenin, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, you are right that in recent years there is a great challenge regarding the state of border crossing points, which have become very alive, but, unfortunately, not in connection with tourism in Bulgaria, but rather with the desire and opportunity of many Bulgarian citizens to visit the northern coast of our southern neighbour. This is an extremely important topic related to the state and management of border crossing points in Bulgaria. One of the main reasons to change the legal basis governing this matter was the effort to identify a clear owner and a responsible owner. On my initiative in 2015, all border checkpoints were transferred as a responsibility to the Customs Agency in order for a central authority to be responsible for the infrastructure and state of these points. By the way, there are a lot of start-up projects to modernize the points, but, of course, we are working on a priority from the bigger and more significant ones to the smaller ones. I already had the opportunity in writing to Mr. Petar Kanev to address the theme of the status of the Border Control Post. Analog is also the case with the Border Control Post "Makasa". Decision No 486 of 15 August 2013 of the Council of Ministers and on the basis of the Ordinance on border crossing points, consent was given for the opening of such a point. By orders of 2014 The Deputy Minister of Regional Development has approved a project to amend the plot of land for the cross-border transition. The Customs Agency accepted the movable property transmitted by the regional administration located on the territory of the land property and for the land property itself was issued State Property Act No 3168 of December 2018 with management rights granted to the Customs Agency. We have taken all necessary steps to ensure the cleanliness and maintenance of the point. We are planning to launch a Punct Extension Project next year, which will be intended only for light traffic at this stage. The means of design and copyright supervision are laid down in the budget forecast for the following year. After the preparation of the Project and coordination of the regulatory order we provide for construction to be carried out as soon as possible next year, which includes the completion of a shed above existing routes for passenger traffic, building lighting over the shed for passenger traffic, delivery and installation of illuminated inscriptions of the Republic of Bulgaria, placing a coat of arms and solving all other domestic, I will call them questions. By the end of the extension of the Border Point, we will provide the necessary services to create conditions for Puncta's residence during the tourist season and, above all, during the intensive airport over the border with Greece during the summer months. I realize that for years there hasn't been an investee enough at these points. It should also be borne in mind that intensive traffic over most of them has emerged as a phenomenon over the past few years and we need to invest more intensively at the points related to our southern neighbour Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u225	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gokov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers! Dear Mr. Goranov, thank you for your answer. I have not traced the answer to Peter Kanev by saying that it is similar, but my question is dictated by the fact that extremely many people resent social networks. On top of that, in my reception room in Stara Zagora came a group that expressed such outrage. They say that these bad conditions, along with the mileage queues of cars, trucks and people waiting for many hours to pass a check at temperatures above 30 degrees, are impossible to use the toilet and this takes us not only away from Europe, but also from any civilization norms. People of Bulgaria, Greeks, Turks, Romanians, Moldovans and so on continue to resent and insult our country. I listened very carefully to your answer and found out about your commitment. By the way, besides the Ministry of Finance, commitments to border crossings must have the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, but I don't know, you've made a commitment. I've heard your promises. I'm sorry for what I'm about to say, but I don't believe this is going to happen for this tourist season. Rather, we raise the issue so that it can be resolved for the next season, and since late spring and early summer, so that things can start. Otherwise, thank you again for your answer. I think that especially at this checkpoint, these same people say that there is a built toilet is conditionally speaking, with everything necessary for a more civilized stay at the border. With very little effort, perhaps just administrative and not material and financial investments, we can run this toilet to lighten these people up a bit. I don't know if that's true, because I've only been to the border crossing once, and I don't know what the possibilities are for such a thing, but, if it's even possible to make it easier, let's do it now, people feel something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u227	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. For the doppelganger, Mr. Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u228	The conscious need to give a better look to border checkpoints led to the decision to assign an authority in the state to serve them and we felt that the Customs Agency and the Ministry of Finance were the appropriate one. I make a personal commitment to you that if you can actually find a quick solution, it will be found within ten days from now. As soon as I get out of the Chamber, I'm going to set up this organization. My answer was related to the longer theme of how this point should be long-term made more convenient for its users. Huge investments are needed. We're focused on the biggest checkpoints. A project is underway and construction works will be started soon, we take them into consideration, of course, with the season on the territory of the border crossing. We are in the finals of such a project with estranged procedures because, unfortunately, for many years, there have been accumulated private sites on the territory of the crossings, which make it difficult to make a good project and to extend the permeability to the Punct of Kalotina. You know that Captain Andreevo is perhaps one of the biggest in Europe in terms of road traffic related to the TIRs. I make a commitment within a few days that the most basic living conditions will be improved on the territory of this point. However, let all users use the conveniences created by the State in good faith, because it impresses that these facilities are very quickly removed from their unholy use. But I promise you, within ten days, you will receive information on the initial possible changes. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u229	Please not from the House, honourable Members! Thank you, Mr. Goranov, for participating in parliamentary control. There are no more questions for Minister Goranov. We are moving on to the questions to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev. The first question is from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov on financing the treatment of children. Here you are, Mr. Mikhailov, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister Ananiev, this issue has been on subjective grounds for more than a month and a half, but this does not change its actuality. You remember the unfortunate case at the end of June, when both here in the Chamber and in the Health Committee we discussed a tragically completed incident regarding the death of a child who needed a serious form of treatment and because of various, extremely unpleasant administrative irregularities, many problems were created around his family and his parents. I don't want to get involved in this dissection of the particular case, which has been very seriously discussed in the Health Commission. After that, we witnessed a number of protests of parents of children with oncohematological diseases, meetings between them and the Ministry's leadership. Meanwhile, we also witnessed another problem that occurred around 12 July for a whole series of refusals to treat children with very specific autoimmune diseases, if you remember Uveitis, rheumatoid arthritis on the territory of the Republic of Germany, on which there was no response from the NHIF, as it, with your decision, took over these functions of the Fund for Treatment abroad with your proposal. My question to you, I will further develop it afterwards, is: what concrete measures, since things have not been completed as an orderly basis so far, are taken by the NHIF, which has become the initiator of these measures, but they still need to be coordinated with the Ministry of Health, so that the treatment of these children can actually be alleviated. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u231	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Here you are, Mr. Ananiev, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u232	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, the answer I have prepared is long and is related to the commitments, the duties of the authorities that are related to solving this problem, but I think you are even better acquainted with the regulations than I am. I'll tell you what we've done in the last few weeks to ease all these problems that you're talking about. The provisions of Ordinance No 2.2019 on the use of funds from the available dialling and donating accounts for the treatment of children have caused a serious debate. It has been held in recent weeks and between the Ministry of Health, the National Health Insurance Fund and representatives of parents of children with onco-hematological diseases and of hospitals where these children are treated. With them all I started an extremely constructive dialogue, which has been unprecedented for the past 10 years. At present, the Ministry of Health and Representatives of the Other Parties in the Dialogue are developing a draft amendment to Ordinance No 2.2019 to this effect. It is proposed that the procedures before the National Health Insurance Fund concerning the approval of financing of treatment of children under Regulation No 2 should not be examined and that the question of the existence or absence of recruitment and donation accounts in any way be taken into account for the benefit of treatment. We will optimize the scope of the documents, the deadlines for their submission, as well as the relationships between individual medical institutions and institutions in providing the necessary medicinal products. The parents won't be doing any more paperwork. This is going to happen at hospital level. The period we have set with parents, doctors and medical institutions to finalise the changes in Regulation No 10 for payment of treatment of children abroad from the National Health Insurance Fund and Regulation No 2 is up to the end of the month. The aim is to publish them by the end of August in the Official Journal of the European Union and to have them in force from September. Procedures and order will be optimised to ensure the necessary treatment of children not only for these diseases, but also for diseases requiring repeated treatment of a larger group of patients. Hospitals will be able to make their requests for a longer period of time from 3 to 6 months, planning the necessary quantities and negotiating the same with owners and traders. The aim is not to lead to shortage or lack of medicinal products. As regards the removal of certain medicinal products for cancer of children from the Positive Drug List and during the meetings, it became clear that medicines were not excluded from the administration' s fault, but because of the lack of delivery of medicinal products by the Marketing Authorisation Holders or their withdrawal from the Positive Drug List. Another line is provided for the treatment of children with the Regulation of the Minister of Health, according to which unregistered medicines are supplied for children and under this mechanism hospitals can be supplied with them. Our aim is to eliminate the bureaucratic burden for parents of children with cancer as a result of the constructive dialogue we are having, and I hope that we will continue with all stakeholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u233	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I've given you more time because of the importance of the matter. Here you are, Professor Mikhailov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I have listened carefully to your answer. It concerns something that will happen by the end of August. This question has two main sides, and I have shared them with you many times in the Health Commission and in personal conversations with you. One side of the question is the aggravated procedures for which these documents could actually play some role because it was extremely humiliating for parents to apply for individual medicinal products from which neither they understand nor can judge exactly how things stand around their children. But there's another side to the problem. The problem is related to part of Bulgaria's drug policy and I have repeatedly addressed this painful issue. Regulation No 10 actually places on hospitals the task of medicines that are not, as you have noted, on the Positive List to be sought, negotiated in whatever quantities, we will now say that larger quantities can already be negotiated as negotiating relations between them and distributors. I have told you many times as a person who has been in this situation for tens of years, that medical institutions are unable to carry out such activities and that it is high time the Ministry of Health or the National Health Insurance Fund, respectively, but I think that the authority that should deal with this thing, and the institution is the Ministry of Health, to provide their own division to deal with the exits of the Positive List for some or other reasons, will not comment on what, medicines. Otherwise, the problem of their timely delivery, the suspension of these deliveries for many subjective reasons, which I do not have time to discuss here as professionals, and you know as a person who has worked for many years in the National Health Insurance Fund as a supervisor, are unable to be resolved by the medical institutions. I therefore appeal to you with the persistent suggestion that the Ministry of Health should look from this perspective at the mistakes made so far in drug policy and the possibility that they should be corrected at national level rather than left in the hands of individual hospitals. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u235	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? No. We move on to the next issue by the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov on criticism of the health system in the European Commission Report for 2019 on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances. Here you are, Mr. Chakarov, to develop your question within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ananiev, on 21 June this year the media announced data from the European Commission Report for 2019 on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances. In the health part, the European Commission notes that many Bulgarians are still facing significant obstacles in access to healthcare. More than 10% of the population has no health insurance, and among the Roma population this is more than 50%. Persons without insurance use hospitals and emergency medical access centres, and this subsequently reduces efficiency and quality as a final medical service. In addition, public expenditure covers only 50% of the total health expenditure is mentioned in the report, compared on average to the European Union, where it is 77%. This points out that almost half of the funds needed for healthcare are direct payments from patients, which is the largest share in the European Union. In addition, the report states that there is a serious shortage, which is also discussed during the presentations of your ideas for reforms, and the previous week here in the National Assembly, 50% are our general practitioners, on average for the European Union this is 23%. A shortage of nurses who are 440 per 100,000 people, with an average of 840, almost double, for the European Union. The report also points to something that we know very well and many times we have appealed to, to hope that the next budget will be waged on disproportion in do-hospital aid, because in this way we believe that it will really improve the effectiveness of health care. The report states that due to these problems the average life expectancy in Bulgaria is 74.9 years and 81 years in the European Union. It is pointed out that health prevention and improvement of overall results can be achieved in this way. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. My question to you is: In view of the questions presented, these disproportions are not expected to be overcome. What is your policy towards overcoming the components already mentioned when presenting my question to you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u238	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Associate Professor Chakarov, you are actually asking me five questions, each one of which is worthy of three minutes. I'll start with the first, second question as far as I get, then in the back, but if I can't answer all the questions, I'll send you a written answer so you can have information on them. With regard to measures to increase public health costs and to reduce direct payments by patients. In line with the government's priorities and in compliance with fiscal rules and objectives, healthcare is one of the sectors in which public spending increases annually. Such an increase is also laid down in the indicative estimates of the annual budget forecast for 2020 " 2022'. The increase for each of the budget years is from 250 to 330 million. lv. In line with the recommendation to take measures to reduce direct payments from patients on an annual basis, the package of activities paid by the NHIF budget is extended, which are financed within the framework of the increase in the cost of the NHIF budget, with an increase of 490 million in 2019. lv. As compared to 2018 In order to reduce direct payments by patients and ensure access to safe, effective and quality vital medicines, the following actions have been taken: a mechanism has been signed that enables the holders of authorisations to provide the National Health Insurance Fund with concessions for partially reimbursed medicinal products to be allocated in full to the benefit of the patient in order to compensate for the additional payment. It is regulated for a period of two years that holders of marketing authorisations or their authorised representatives cannot claim an increase in the registered prices of non-prescription medicinal products with a higher percentage of the statistically reported inflation for the period of action than the last registered price. Other measures to reduce direct payments by patients undertaken by the Ministry of Health are related to changes in the regulations which aim to improve the mechanisms for control over the activities of medical institutions and to extend the powers of the Medical Supervision Executive Agency. Outside the scope of health insurance, the Ministry of Health provides funding from the state budget for priority medical activities for certain groups of the population, such as: activities related to pregnancy and the birth of health-insured women; carrying out screening programmes for newborn children and pregnant women for prevention, early detection and timely treatment of congenital diseases for all newborn children and pregnant women, regardless of their health insurance status; financial organisational support for the treatment of children and adults abroad where the relevant type of treatment cannot be provided in due time in Bulgaria; activities related to organ transplants, tissues and cells, as well as assisted reproduction; subsidization of hospital care facilities, medical care for long-term treatment of patients with cardiovascular, neurological and pulmonary diseases in hospitals located in difficultly accessible areas; for stationary treatment of patients with psychiatric diseases and others. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Can I just finish the first topic?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u239	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u240	An obligation has been introduced for medical institutions to issue patients a financial document for all the amounts paid by them in relation to their treatment. There is also a new mechanism for controlling the management of medical institutions which are obliged to implement Regulation No 5 on the establishment of standards for financial activity of state and municipal hospital care institutions. The state provides means of diagnosis and treatment in hospital care facilities for persons who do not have income and/or personal property to provide them with personal participation in the health insurance process. In order to improve the health performance of the population in 2019 and to reduce direct payments by patients will continue the process of expanding the scope of activities guaranteed by the NHIF budget, including activities in outpatient care, as well as promotional and profiling activities. All this is to be discussed during the negotiations of the National Framework Treaty for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u241	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mr. Chakarov, for two minutes' cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, I realize that we have foreseen 5% of our budget specifically for health care from GDP, which is 7% for European countries, but there are opportunities that need to be realised. I see extremely well-meaning of you. It is correct to say that these data, which is mentioned in the European Commission Report, are not from this year and the transitional year, they are inherited and accumulated over the years, but that does not mean that no measures should be taken. I am convinced that you, as an extremely good financier and manager, and a person who enters, and is already in the matter of health, will make all the necessary efforts. All this must be achieved. I see a lot of positive steps, as you have for the first time in years talked about health reform, you have proposed ideas that have been discussed. Now I'm not going in there. They must be implemented with the efforts of all political forces, of our entire civil society, because it is undeniable that the healthcare system needs reforming. All these notes that have been made, or statistics, we can and must overcome them in the name of better and better quality service in the healthcare system. It's also a good step you're taking with regard to the specialization of doctors. However, I must tell you that both the academic community and the medical guild have notes. You are a dialog person, it is good to hear them, to discuss them in the future, but this is the subject of further questions with which I would like to present our positions to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the doppelganger or continue your answer. I'll be stricter about the next questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u244	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Associate Professor Chakarov, I propose to jump over the issue of measures to address the problem of the shortage of nurses and general practitioners, as there was a special debate on the personnel problems of a system. If I have to answer all the questions in the letter, I will include this section. The third question you have asked is disproportionate funding for hospital and outpatient care. The NHIF Budget Act in 2019 took action to increase the funding provided for health insurance payments in outpatient aid. Thus, for primary medical care in the current year 2019 is set by 17 million. $800,000. lv. More than 2018 the specialized outpatient medical care is over 28 million. lv. more in comparison with 2018, for medical and diagnostic research and dental aid with 10 million. lv. increase compared to the previous year. In order to overcome the disproportions in consumption and therefore the funding between hospital and extra-hospital aid, regulatory changes have been made, which impose a mandatory nature on the National Health Card, as well as conditions and requirements when changing the hospital in the number of hospital beds. On the next issue, the implementation of a project to support the development of the emergency health care system, funded by the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth 2014-2020" continues, which will modernise and renovate emergency wards, emergency care centres and their affiliates. With the implementation of the 98% Project, up to 30 minutes of emergency medical care will be provided for 24-hour treatment and observation. Measures taken to stimulate the development of primary medical care and the provision by the NHIF budget of additional funding for practices with an adverse condition of work. The state policy regarding the creation of conditions for the development of long-term care is reflected in the planned needs of beds for long-term treatment and beds for palliative care as defined in the National Health Card. In view of the identified serious shortage of hospital beds for long-term treatment and palliative care in the National Health Card, there are certain needs of 5866 beds in existing 2494. The last question "Species to promote prevention." In order to improve access to health care and to implement the measures set out by the National Health Strategy 2020, the regulations for the definition of a package of health activities and preventive examinations in the dispensation guaranteed by the NHIF budget shall be updated annually, extending the scope of medical promotional and preventive activities. Continuous control of mandatory immunizations is carried out according to the established immunization calendar for our country. A number of national programmes with preventive and promotional measures are also implemented in different guidelines: to improve oral health of children, to improve maternal and child health, to prevent chronic non-infected diseases, to prevent infectious diseases. The user fee entered is of minimal size and does not depend on the value of the service used. For persons who have acquired the right to a retirement pension and age, the consumer fee is one third of the established and the difference is covered by the state budget. The exemption of certain groups of citizens from a consumer fee ensures access to the most vulnerable groups from society to health services within the framework of compulsory health insurance. The National Programme for the Improvement of Hospitality and Children's Health 2014-2020 provides advice from medical professionals, psychologists, social workers of pregnant women at increased medical risk, with pathology of pregnancy or chronic diseases and disabilities, as well as children with disabilities and chronic diseases. And thank you, Mr. Chairman, and you, MPs, for letting me finish the questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u245	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. As Deputy Minister of Finance, you weren't so generous to us. You've had twice as much time as planned. Perhaps it is good in your office to assess how much you can represent in two plus three minutes. Of course, the topic is too important and the MPs must comply. The next question is also from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov on criticism of a proposal from the Ministry of Health for reforming the health insurance system in Bulgaria in the European Commission Report for 2019 on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances. Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u246	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, I cannot fail to express the approval of the measures you have taken regarding the previous issue of components to which you answered, and particularly in the prevention part, this is a serious feather. I, as a doctor, know that prevention is very important in these aspects of medicine, where it is better to have good prevention and prevention. In this matter, I would like to draw attention to the fact that that report analyses the two options presented by the Ministry of Health. The discussions have passed and we would be interested to have you present to us today in view of the notes that the European Commission has given, and they are in the part that it is pointed out that both options are to allow competition between the existing National Health Insurance Fund as the sole payer and private insurance companies, and the current levels of contributions remain unchanged. Here I allow myself to say the position of the DPS we have always been about being competitive. In a competitive environment, there should be more efficient spending of funds and, naturally, achieving better objectives, greater efficiency. The report states that one option involves increasing the funding of the system by introducing compulsory health insurance in the form of a fixed contribution, which aims to reduce direct payments, as you just pointed out, on the part of patients. The European Commission's view is that the non-binding amount of this contribution to income will result in a greater financial burden for low-income groups. We must comply with the social vector and the Minister must pay attention to these remarks. The European Commission also points out that direct payments may also be increased due to the proposed restrictions on public financing of hospital care and specialized outpatient care. The report recommends maintaining the possibility of concluding additional voluntary health insurance. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. It is stated that administrative costs could increase. What are your positions on the notes that have been made, especially after the discussions that have been made? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u248	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Associate Professor Chakarov, of course that the Ministry of Health is aware of the conclusions and recommendations in the Annual Report of the European Commission on Bulgaria for 2019 and I can assure you that they are thoroughly analyzed in order to improve the problem areas in the sector during the work to summarize the proposals from the broad public discussion on the two options presented in September 2018 for reforming the health insurance system. It is precisely on the basis of the systematization of the recommendations of the participants in the discussions and mentioned in the European Commission's report that some of the proposals for reform were prepared for the new public presentation of the model for financing health care. On 15 July this year the Ministry of Health organized and held a round table dedicated to the state of the healthcare system in Bulgaria and the necessary changes in the health insurance model to ensure better and sustainable health care. Representatives of all interested parties took part in the meeting. The National Assembly, the government, consensus and patient organizations, trade unions, insurance companies, performers of medical care and media. The advantages and disadvantages of possible changes were discussed in order to reach consensus on the direction of construction and development of an effective working model supported by society. The round table was invited to participate experts of the Federal Ministry of Health of the Federal Republic of Germany and experts of the Ministry of Health, Social Care and Sports of the Kingdom of the Netherlands who shared their expertise on the development of a model that will respond to our needs to the highest extent based on the good practices and experience of the countries in this area. What's the pattern? We categorically stated at the round table that he, first of all, must be a solidarity model of healthcare; a model that gives patients the right to choose for the following: who to manage their health contributions, where to treat under the best conditions in the country, full awareness of the scope and price of medical and dental services and medicines; a model that provides control over the quality of services and guarantees affordable services and a model that is financially sustainable. At this stage, I still cannot give a clear answer to your question on the possibility that the new model for financing health care will start to work in 2020, because not everything depends only on the Ministry of Health. You know that there are technological processes that take time. To conclude, I would like to emphasise again that a new health insurance model should only be introduced if a broad public and professional consensus is reached on the basic principles of compulsory and voluntary health insurance and in full compliance with expectations for better health than Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u249	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Chakarov, would you like a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ananiev, we cannot fail to welcome the first positive steps in the right direction on what you are proposing, what has been discussed at the round table, and what you are quite very carefully pointing out today is indeed necessary. I fully share and welcome what you are saying that there should be a public consensus and support. I add: and a non-partisan political consensus must be there for all of this, because for years we politicians are obliged in terms of the reform that needs to be implemented in healthcare. It is a necessity for all of us who live in this wonderful country to have better health care. The steps are in the right direction, I welcome that there is readiness for dialogue and dialogue on your part and on your team. I assure you that we will continue to actively participate in the implementation of these reforms with our positions, if necessary even to be critical. What is important is that we achieve the objectives that are ahead of us in the name of better healthcare, greater efficiency. We owe it to ourselves, and we have to do it. Naturally, you have an extremely large responsibility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Mr. Minister, would you like a duplicate? No. Thank you for your time. Now a question from the National Representative Kolyo Milev about the building fund and the site of the specialized hospital for active treatment of pulmonary diseases in liquidation. Here you are, Mr. Milev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u252	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, my question to you is related to the process of liquidation, destiny and building fund on the field of the specialized hospital for active treatment of pulmonary diseases. Before the new year, Dear Minister, you promised in this House that the team would be replaced as far as I know has been replaced, and you will devote the funds needed to close the financial problems to resolve the liquidation issue. My question to you is: at what stage is the process of liquidation of a specialized hospital for active treatment of pulmonary diseases, and what are your intentions regarding the building fund and the terrain around it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u253	Thank you, Mr. Milev. Here you are, Mr. Ananiev, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u254	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Milev, with a decision of the sole owner of the capital of the specialized hospital for active treatment of pulmonary diseases, the company has been terminated by liquidation since 2010. The process of liquidation is difficult for several reasons: lack of cash in the company, failure to comply with the obligation under a contract to award liquidation in respect of the assets and documentation of the company by liquidators and lack of active action by them to complete the procedure. We have been informed that at present there is an inspection in the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior (MI) Sliven, according to prosecutor's file No 285 of 2019 according to the description of the District Prosecutor's Office (Prosecution) Sliven, concerning suspicions of unlawful actions under the liquidation procedure. The area on which the buildings of the medical establishment and the specialized hospital for active treatment of pulmonary diseases are located is not owned by the company but is state property and is managed by the district governor of Sliven district. In this sense, the Ministry of Health has no bearing on its management. As regards the buildings, there are active actions by the Municipality of Sliven to investigate and issue prescriptions, as they are in poor condition due to the lack of funds in the company to manage them and because the liquidation process continued significantly. Actions are also prescribed to preserve the main hospital building, which has the status of real cultural value. The Ministry of Health will analyse the amount of funds needed to comply with these prescriptions. In other words, the two things that I had promised to change the management and provide the necessary financial resources, yes, we will provide it after we receive the appropriate prescriptions for the actions in the storage of the building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u255	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Milev, come in for a cue for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u256	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, thank you for answering the question. Indeed, it is very important for Sliven Municipality, as it is located near the 4th Primary School, near two parks of the city garden and the park of Yunak. Besides, as you said, it's a cultural monument. I believe that you will find a way to secure that 43,000. BGN, which it was about, even if they were a little more, and the district governor together with the Municipality could fulfil their obligations so that this area could be ennobled and have some future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u257	Thank you, Mr. Milev. For the doppelganger? No. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova on criteria for the detection of emergency wards in hospitals regardless of the type of property. Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova, to develop the matter. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, the Emergency Medical System Development Concept is set as a strategic goal to improve the structure of the system by integrating the two main parts of the system. The construction of the integrated model for the development of emergency medical care is a structural change which, in some cases, requires the disclosure of emergency wards in hospital care facilities regardless of the type of property. Minister, I ask you to answer my question: what are the criteria by which emergency wards are revealed in hospital care facilities regardless of the type of property? Are these revelations compatible with the National Health Card?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u259	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Here you are, Mr. Ananiev, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u260	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Naydenova, the emergency medical care system in Bulgaria is an integral part of the general health system and should be seen as a functional unification of activities and structures in relation to the diagnosis and treatment of people with emergency conditions, carried out in outpatient and hospital conditions. Within the meaning of the Law on Hospitals, medical institutions can be established by the State, by municipalities and other legal and natural persons, and all hospitals are equal regardless of their ownership. The activities of the medical institutions of the medical and other specialists working in them should be carried out in compliance with the medical standards for the quality of medical care provided and the protection of the patient's rights. The emergency department is the structure of a hospital care facility for active treatment in which a team of doctors, with the help of other medical and non-medical personnel, performs continuous 24-hour medical activities in emergency patients within the scope of the specialty The criteria for opening an emergency room in a hospital care facility are comprehensively laid down in Ordinance No 49 of 2010 on the basic requirements to be met by the device, activity and internal order of hospital care facilities, medical care homes and the medical standard of emergency medicine. The disclosure of an emergency room in a hospital care facility should also take into account the real needs of the population of emergency medical care in the National Health Card. In this regard, the disclosure of an emergency care structure in the medical standard "Emergency" is also linked to the capacity of the hospital care facility, the serviced population, the patients, and the ability of the emergency care unit to carry out its activities in functional interaction with other hospital structures within the scope of other medical specialties in their emergency component, forming an emergency hospital complex. The medical care facilities shall operate after authorisation to carry out medical activities by the Minister of Health on the basis of a proposal from the Executive Director of the Executive Agency. 46, para. Art. 2 and 4, Art. Art. 47, Art. 50, para. 2 and 3 of the Law on Medical Institutions. The disclosure of an emergency ward in the structure of a hospital hospital which has not performed a medical speciality until now is a change in the circumstances of the authorisation granted to carry out medical activities of the hospital concerned by carrying out a new medical activity and regardless of the ownership of the medical institution should be carried out in compliance with the requirements of the Medical Institutions Act, including in compliance with the medical standard. The changes to the authorisation to carry out medical activities of the hospital care facility by entering new medical activities shall be made only after the Minister of Health's orders have been issued. In the course of the administrative procedure under art. 37b of the Law on Medical Institutions of the Executive Agency is entrusted with assessing the needs of the population of medical care according to the National Health Card and the documents provided by the medical institution, as well as the compliance of the emergency department with the requirements of the medical standard. The order of the Minister of Health, authorising the carrying out of new medical activities by the hospital institution, lays down: the type of new medical activities, the structures in which they are to be carried out, the number of beds for hospital treatment and the level of competence of the relevant bodies, as well as the period for the implementation of the project to which the medical institution may apply for a change of circumstances. To conclude, I would like to assure you that our aim is to ensure that Bulgarian citizens have equal access to health services through the integration of the two main parts of the system - outside-patient and hospital emergency medical care corresponding to the best European practices and requirements for timeliness, continuity, accessibility, quality and safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u261	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u262	Dear Minister, colleagues! I'd like to look at it from another angle. Your answer, Mr. Minister, is strictly administrative and absolutely accurate, for which I thank you, but let us also look at the question on the part of the new model that you are proposing. There is competition between hospital care facilities as commercial companies for patients. Competition also covers the work of emergency rooms where they are discovered. The new model you are proposing, Mr. Minister, will strengthen this process and will not ensure that hospital emergency services remain the same, reflected as a need in the National Health Card. Therefore, it should be clear what are the criteria for opening an emergency room in hospital care facilities regardless of the type of their property and they should comply with our national health security and the access of every patient in need. This regulation is from 2010, we are 2019. Nine years have passed, Mr Minister, and I allow myself to draw you attention to this, because the processes of competition, whether fair or not, the processes of insolvency and bankruptcy of commercial companies are part of the market relations in our healthcare and they can threaten or destroy this integrated model of emergency medical care, for which we must have developed preliminary preventive measures to prevent this from happening, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u263	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u264	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Dr. Naydenova, I think I have quite detailed the criteria to be met by the medical institution in order to have an open emergency room. I am not sure in your finding that the new model may have any negative impact on the detection or closure of the relevant emergency compartments. In any case, the new model must ensure equal access of the population to any medical care: outpatient, hospital, emergency, so that the health funds that enter into contracts with the medical institutions must provide this medical activity to all Bulgarian citizens, and it is equivalent throughout the country. In addition, in order not to worry that there may be some breakdown in the system, you know that we are implementing this Emergency Aid Project, which will enable 237 points in the country to be created such emergency centres, which will be upgraded and will be equipped with the most modern equipment, with the most modern ambulances and, as I said in one reply before, within 30 minutes, they will be able to provide all Bulgarian citizens with the necessary emergency treatment and in general the necessary treatment. So let's continue the debate on the new health insurance model. We do not yet know what consensus we will achieve and what model we will apply, then we can now talk about the relationship between the actual realization of this model and the emergency room, but I think that whatever the model is, it will in no case put the activities of emergency rooms at risk regardless of the form of ownership. The issue is that the Bulgarian citizen has access to these emergency rooms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u265	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next issue by the National Representative Georgi Gokov on the implementation of Directive 2011/62 EU of 8 July 2011 amending Directive 2001/83 EC on the Community Code on medicinal products for human use as regards the prevention of the entry of falsified medicinal products into the legal supply chain. I hope two minutes will be enough for you to develop your question. It's a long title.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! European statistics show that between 1 and 4% of medicines in Europe are fake. In Bulgaria at least I do not know to have statistics, but surely this percentage is much higher. Deceit is most often done with the contents of the medicines and is often tampered with and the information given by the packages and leaflets. It is clear that measures against trade in counterfeit medicines are necessary and the directive has therefore been adopted and entered into force to ensure that any drug that reaches patients is genuine. It concerns the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council cited by the President, which amended another Directive on the Community Code on medicinal products for human use as regards the prevention of the entry into the legal supply chain of falsified medicinal products. For Bulgaria, the Directive has entered into force since 9 February 2019 and so every medicine we buy with a prescription must have a unique number to show if it is fake and which must be checked before the sale to the patient. Thus, with the verification system, Bulgarian citizens will be guaranteed to receive genuine medicines recognised in the territory of the European Union. Now, after the entry into force of the Directive, you, Mr Minister, will quote precisely the words you said: "We will launch a smooth start to the introduction of the verification system, which will be at least six months in which pharmacies will not be sanctioned for not having introduced it yet. That is to say, there should be no concern on their part of the European Commission that no pharmacy will close, no patient will be deprived of treatment, and vice versa, the idea is to guarantee the treatment of citizens with verified medicines recognised in the territory of the European Union. The idea is during this time to test the system and analyze all cases and problems related to its implementation. The six-month period shall expire on 9 August 2019. And in this regard, my question to you is: what do the tests show and at what stage is the introduction of the system for verification of medicines in Bulgarian pharmacies? How will you ensure that the requirements of the Directive are fully implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u267	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Here you are, Mr. Ananiev, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u268	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Lord Gokov! Directive 2011/62 EU on medicinal products for human use as regards the prevention of the entry into the legal supply chain of falsified medicinal products has been transposed into the Act on medicinal products in human medicine with changes thereto since 21 December 2012. The process of the establishment, implementation and provision of a permanently active fictitious, secure and accessible system for verification of medicinal products in the Republic of Bulgaria is carried out by the Association of Bulgaria for the verification of medicines in cooperation with the European Organization for the verification of medicinal products. The Association's main priority is to assist in achieving the objectives of the Directive, including ensuring that patients are supplied with authentic medicinal products and preventing trade in falsified medicinal products. The Delegated Regulation 2016/161 entered into force on 9 February this year shall apply directly in all Member States of the European Union. It requires the availability of functioning national verification systems as part of the single European system, as well as the readiness of the participants in the drug chain to connect to the system and to check and deactivate medicinal products with safety indicators. At present, the verification system is administered and maintained by the Bulgarian Organization for Verification of Medicines as data from the periodic reports of the European Organisation for Verification are also available at the IAL (Executive Agency for Medicines). They show the presence of mostly technical errors in the system. This leads to the generation of signals, with the main reasons being errors in uploading data on medicinal products from the manufacturer in the European hub, coding errors, errors in barcode upgrades, scanners, inaccuracies in the software and others. A stabilisation period has been introduced in most European countries since 9 February in order to ensure smooth implementation of the requirements and not to make it difficult for patients to access medicines. Depending on the peculiarities of each country, its duration varies. A six-month period was set in Bulgaria. Currently, nearly 2200 pharmacies are connected to the system, which represents 95% of the number of pharmacies that have contractual relations with the National Health Insurance Fund and about 65% of the total number of pharmacies that need to be connected to the system. In carrying out current controls, the Drug Executive Agency reminds and makes prescriptions to sites that have not yet been included. The aim is for all responsible actors and institutions to be involved in this process with a clear understanding of its importance in terms of safety for medicinal products. The Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, which the Ministry of Health prepares, also establishes conditions in national legislation implementing Commission Delegated Regulation 2016/161 of 2 October 2015 supplementing Directive 2001/83 EC of the European Parliament and of the Council by laying down detailed rules on safety performance on the packaging of medicinal products for human use. The texts will be discussed in parliament after the passage of their public discussion and if approved by the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u269	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, for two minutes' cue. I'm reminding everyone of their time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I thank you for your answer. Yeah, from the answer, I figured about 40%, maybe a little less, didn't have anything to do with the fake drug system. That's about 1,500 more pharmacies. It is also said in the pharmaceutical circles and in the media that the Ministry of Health offers fines from 1000 to 3000 BGN. For the intruders. I didn't hear that from your answer, I hope so. As an initial investment for this system for identification of medicines by a pharmacy is purchase software program "Barcode Reader", which costs about 500 BGN. by unconfirmed data, it may be that much, and besides, every month some minimum maintenance fee for this software. This, of course, for large pharmacies is nothing, unpredictably low cost, but for a small pharmacy it is a serious expense and we come to the settlements where there are no pharmacies at all or for several settlements a pharmacy that barely endures on the brink of bankruptcy. I realized for the test there will be problems, there will always be problems with a new system. They are normal, supporting the system and I think we will overcome them, but there is a serious question: is there a danger of closure, closure of pharmacies because of the new requirements? Is there a danger that areas where the only pharmacy that works there will shut down the population of this region and leave without medication and treatment? I am concerned about such a possible closure of pharmacies, but at the same time I believe that trade in counterfeit medicines should be taken extremely seriously and there should be zero tolerance for the sale of counterfeit medicines, because Bulgarians are not a second quality people in order to treat themselves with counterfeit medicines. You are the Minister of Health, you must find the balance between making Bulgarian pharmacies not sell counterfeit medicines, eliminating this opportunity and at the same time providing access to medicines for all Bulgarians equally. It's a complicated task, but it's impossible, and you have to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u271	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Here you are, Mr. Ananiev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u272	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Gokov, we at the Ministry of Health are working in the directions you pointed out in your speech. Finally, at the end of my speech, I said that we have prepared amendments to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, where a very important place will take the safety indicators of medicines on the one hand. On the other hand, we see that every month, every period we observe and account for the number of pharmacies that are included in this system, it increases. Although slowly, it is increasing. We're not shutting down a pharmacy because it didn't get involved in this single system. Of course, we will make calls, we will say what needs to be done, we will support pharmacies, but that is the only reason why pharmacies will not be closed. I also think that small pharmacies, which currently believe that they do not have enough resources, feel that Bulgarian citizens, Bulgarian patients are heading in the context of their security towards pharmacies that have already entered this verification system. They themselves will at some point realize the need to make this one-time expense so that they can have the certainty that the citizens who serve will come to them to buy the appropriate medicines. And last but not least, in this draft Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, we also foresee some things that will ease the drug supply of the population in remote, small and hard-to-reach settlements. This will be a debate that, perhaps after you return from your vacation, we will take it first to the Health Committee, and then, of course, here in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u273	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. And a final question to you by the National Representative Valentina Naydenova on checks carried out at the Emergency Medical Center in Ruse, in 2017 until March 2019. You're welcome to develop the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u274	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, in connection with tensions at the Emergency Medical Centre, Ruse, at the end of March, the passage of employees from eight to seven-hour working day in force from 1 May 2019, signals of unlawful determination and receipt of salary costs, problems with the payment of overtime and others from you were appointed an urgent check of the Centre's activities for the period 2017. "The beginning of March 2019" by the Internal Audit Office of the Ministry of Health. It has been announced that financial inspectors of ADFI will also carry out checks at the Centre. Dear Minister, I ask you to answer the question: what are the findings of the checks carried out and what measures has the Ministry of Health taken to stabilize the Center for Emergency Medical Services Ruse?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u275	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Mr. Ananiev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u276	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Naydenova, in the Center for Emergency Medical Assistance, the city of Ruse has carried out an internal audit for consultation in 2019 on: analysis and assessment of the lawful determination, accounting and accounting of the costs of salaries and identification of the availability and effectiveness of control activities in relation to them, and whether the scheduled control activities concerning their determination, charge and repayment are adequate and effective. A number of deficiencies and violations have been identified, the main ones of which are: in the internal wage rules for the entire period under review, the order for planning the funds for basic salaries and additional remuneration for non-employed posts has not been written down; there is no overall system for assessing the performance of employees and their contribution to achieving the results of the Centre; no measurable indicators for the assessment of employees have been defined; it is not written how the performance of employees is assessed and how this influences the salary and additional remuneration. In the name schedules for the audited period submitted to the audit team, a re-appliance of the funds required for salary per month has been drawn up. In the recapitulation no amounts are planned for overtime and nocturnal work and for work on official holidays, although these are inherent payments related to the organisation of labour in the CSM. The incorrect preparation of estimates for the necessary salary funds poses a risk of a shortage of funds to pay some of the staff's salaries. In the allocation of funds for determining individual basic salaries, serious disproportions have been made, and for some of the administrative posts the rate of increase compared to the starting salary is significantly higher than that of medical staff. At the same time, there are positions for which the salaries received are below the initials set out in the CTA for the R&I. Additional material incentive for the results achieved for 2017 and 2018 is assigned to employees in proportion to individual basic salaries and working days, without assessing the performance of employees and their contribution to achieving the objectives of the Centre. In relation to the audit commitment made at the CSM Ruse, an action plan has been drawn up by the Director to implement the recommendations given in the audit report. The action plan is being implemented. A financial inspection was carried out by the State Financial Inspection Agency for the period 2018 with the following scope: verification of the legality of the costs of delivery of medicinal products recorded in 2018 in respect of compliance with public procurement regulations; verification of the legality of the costs of delivery of medical equipment recorded in 2018; verification of the legality of the costs of hospital nutrition and free food of staff reported in 2018. The ALPI report on the financial inspection carried out at CSMP Ruse did not reveal any violations. If you wish, I could provide you with a copy of the report of the Internal Audit Unit at the Ministry of Health and an AFFI report on the checks carried out at the Emergency Medical Center. I assure you that the Ministry of Health is taking all necessary measures to stabilise the emergency medical care centres in the country, including the one in Ruse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u277	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you like a douche? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u278	Dear Minister, I thank you for reacting very urgently at the end of March, sending a representative to the Centre in the face of the Deputy Minister. I would like to personally thank the people who have carried out an independent external inspection, but despite these findings, there is something that may not be said today. For me, as a Member of the National Assembly, it remains unclear why the new leadership has not acquainted those working at the Emergency Medical Centre with the constant protocols of these checks in order to end once and for all the ambiguities in relations not between the owner who is the Ministry of Health and working, but between the employer and the workers, which caused this conflict? It is unclear why, in this absence of medical professionals, about 200 people for the entire emergency system, only two or three days ago was shortened by the same medical care center far below the pension? It is unclear why the number of doctors at the Emergency Medical Center Ruse is approximately equal to administrative business positions? I hope that over time these and other ambiguities you, as a representative of the state, will clarify them in order to achieve a full stabilisation of the Emergency Medical Center so that those working there can work peacefully, knowing that the state stands behind their backs, especially after the protests that are already subsiding. We as MPs will very closely monitor this process and I assure you of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u279	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. That wasn't the backdrop, like I said, it was a line. Minister Ananiev is right on the doppelganger. He won't take advantage. This was the last question to him in today's parliamentary control. Let's thank him for his participation. We move on to the questions of Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The first question is from MP Ahmed Ahmedov about the Republican road network within the municipality of Kubrat, Razgrad. Here you are, Mr. Ahmedov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u280	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question today is about the state of the Republican road network on the territory of Kubrat municipality. Madam Minister, you must be aware that in general the Republican road network in the territory of Razgrad region is highly compromised. This is about the Razgrad Roads Testament, Razgrad Isperih, Razgrad Kubrat, but let me get back to today's issue, and it concerns, as I explained to you, the state of the Republican Road Network in Kubrat municipality. I've also applied a list of roads to my request. We are talking about road II-23 Ruse, Kubrat.. Isperih. Dulovo in the area from 31 to 34 km from the border with Regional Road Management. Ruse, the sharp turn before the quarry in Terter until the beginning of the village of Belovets. This section is loaded with regard to the transportation of goods, people and services from and to the town of Ruse. On it daily travel students, residents of the municipality who work in the city of Ruse, farmers, as well as heavy goods vehicles. Its extremely poor state blocks the so important access to settlements in the area and is a serious prerequisite for road accidents. This section is also of essential domestic and economic importance for the municipalities of Testament and Kubrat. The Labor Bureau, the District Court, as well as the municipal hospital in Kubrat serve the population of the two municipalities. The division is also important for the development of trade and business relations, as well as for agricultural relations. The second time is Targovishte "Razgrad " Kubrat "Tutrakan," namely in the section from 54 to 63 km, which passes through the villages of Tochilari and Kamenovo. The other section of the same road is 79 to 89 km from the deviation for the village of Bisertsi to the borders between Tutrakan and Kubrat municipality. The poor condition of this road makes it difficult to access the Old People's House in the village of Terter and thus hinders the supply of food, fuel and others, as well as the movement of the staff working there. The road is also essential for farmers. According to the district police station in Kubrat, traffic accidents in the area have increased. The third time is Slivo pole This section serves the most remote villages in the municipality of Kubrat and moves school buses, moving students to secondary schools in the region, as well as workers and farmers. The road is essential for trade. The fourth road is Pisan "Glodzhevo," a section from 31 to 33 km from the borders between the municipality of Vetovo and the municipality of Kubrat. This time it provides access to the municipal hospital in Kubrat, which also serves the population in the city of Glodzhevo. His poor condition also blocked commercial and business ties in the area. In the municipality of Kubrat and Vetovo quite rightly signed signatures were registered by citizens with a request for completion of the construction. I sincerely hope that within the limits of your powers you will do what is necessary to ensure the financing and rehabilitation of these areas. Dear Minister, in this regard, my question to you is as follows: does the office entrusted to you provide financing for rehabilitation and major repair of these sections and, if it provides for when the repairs are started? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u281	Thank you, Mr. Ahmedov. Here you are, Mrs Avramova, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u282	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ahmedov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will start my answer with a truth that you all know that in recent years due to a systemic shortage of funds has been required, and now it is still necessary, the Road Infrastructure Agency is carefully planning its repair program. Despite these restrictions, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Agency has put a lot of money into improving the Republican road network in Razgrad. In 2018 there were renovated sections with a total length of about 124 km, of them about 31 km of second-class road network and about 93 km of third-class road network. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European 458 thousand. BGN 499. From the third-class network are renovated road III-204 Razgrad From the second-class road network are renovated road II-51 Dralfa Regarding the specific questions you have asked, I inform you: first, Republican Road II-23 Ruse.. Kubrat................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The road passes through the village of Belovets, the town of Kubrat, the village of Medovene, the village of Brestovene, the center of the town of Zavet, the village of Malak Porovets, the village of Dragomen and reaches the town of Isperih. Road II-23 Ruse in the section from km 21 to km 46 with a total length of 25 km in the districts of Ruse and Razgrad is included in the scope of Lot 33 of the Operational Programme The site has been declared tender procedures for the selection of contractors of construction and construction supervision. The work of the committees on the two tenders is ongoing at the moment. The technical proposals of the participants shall be examined and the tenders submitted shall be evaluated. The indicative value of construction works is 22 million. 332 thousand. lv. with VAT, and at this stage the funds under the Operational Programme under this axis are exhausted and we expect the saved financial resource to be redirected so that we can also finance those sites that have remained underfunded by the entire list set by the Operational Programme. A 15km stretch of the road on the territory of the municipality of Kubrat is covered by a lot, including the route from km 31+761 to km 34+926, which is the subject of your inquiry. Last year on the road were performed repair activities on an ongoing maintenance value of 60 thousand. BGN 855. Second, Republican Road II-49 Targovishte The road passes through the village of Topchii and the village of Kamenovo, the town of Kubrat, the village of Zakova. For the first section, which is the subject of your questioning, about 9 km long from km 54 to km 63, there is a technological project that provides for repair of the road flooring, drainage activities, cutting of bushes and trees, laying of horizontal marking, new vertical signalling and restrictive systems. The indicative value for the implementation of the activities is 7 million. Three hundred thousand. lv. Currently, the Road Infrastructure Agency does not have the means necessary to award repairs. During the last year of the division were performed repair activities worth 54 thousand. £650. The second section, with a length of about 9 km, from km 79 to km 89, is part of the route on which renovation began in 2017. Last year, a bandage (unsealed asphalt concrete) and a temporary horizontal marking was placed in the section. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. For the site were spent 2 million. 390 thousand. £975. and due to the lack of funds, repairs have been discontinued and 1 million are needed to complete the facility. 400,000. BGN, which will be completed: laying the dense asphalt mixture, filling of banquets, delivery and installation of restrictive systems, laying of permanent horizontal marking. At present, the area has a good operational condition. If I have to go in the back, I'll fill in my answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u283	Yes, I was too generous in the first question to my colleague Ahmedov and to you. I'll adjust for the next questions. Here's a line, Mr. Ahmedov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u284	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I have been pleased with your response, especially in its part, that you have found that the funds allocated to Razgrad region are insufficient and you have potential intentions to rehabilitate these roads. I would like to thank you, eventually, and when they are rehabilitated, but today I am using this highest tribune, namely the National Assembly stands to give you the signatures that are over 4000, to the residents of Kubrat municipality. I hope that their hope will be realized and meaningful on your part. Let the Republican road network in Kubrat municipality acquire the condition that residents desire. Thank you again. [[The National Representative Ahmed Ahmedov gives the folder with the signatures of Minister Petya Avramova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u285	Thank you, Mr. Ahmedov. Here you go, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u286	Mr. Ahmedov, Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, as well as the Road Infrastructure Agency, takes into account the importance of each Republican road, regardless of its class, of importance and its workload. In this regard, we are making efforts according to the financial frameworks, the repair programmes to ensure safety for traffic on the Republican road network. These efforts will continue in this year and in the coming years, hoping that the funds available to us will be of such size that we can also repair all roads that are in poor operational condition according to our observations, according to your own and the people who live in these settlements. So I also rely on your support, as well as on the government's support for additional targeted funds, with which we can meet people's expectations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u287	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. We are now going to a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev about the state of the road facilities on I-6 on the territory of Pernik region.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u288	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, Republican Road I-6 is a first-class road from the Republican Road Network of Bulgaria with a direction from west to east, passing through the territory of nine districts "Kustendilska, Pernishka, Sofia, Plovdiv, Stara Zagorska, Slivenska, Yambolska and Bourgaska." The total length of the road is 508 km, of which 58 km are on the territory of Pernik region. On the territory of Pernik region, at km 83+200 is located a bridge facility, which is in a miserable state and needs urgent rehabilitation. This route is of great importance for Pernishka and Kyustendil district, connecting both districts with the capital, and it is also of national importance, linking us with the border crossing. In this regard, my question to you is: have the facilities on I-6 on the territory of Pernik, what is their current technical status and what repair actions are possibly foreseen in 2019? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u289	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Here you are, Mrs Avramova, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u290	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bonev, the facilities by Republic route I-6 Gyueshevo "Sofia" on the territory of Pernik district are 14 pieces. During periodic reviews by specialists of Regional Road Management Pernik, their overall situation has been found to be good at present. Four of the facilities at km 80+670, km 80+920, km 81+289 and km 83+200, which fall within the urbanised territory of Pernik, are missing railings. The facility at km 83+200 is also missing the containment system. I note here that the restoration of the railings and the restrictive systems of these facilities, according to the provisions of the Roads Act and its implementing regulations, the maintenance of the lane for the movement of equipment is carried out by the Road Infrastructure Agency and these elements outside the traffic lane are a commitment of the municipality concerned, including the restrictive systems and railings. So far, the municipality, probably due to a lack of funds, has not taken action to recover them, with a letter sent from regional road management to Pernik Municipality. An exception to the overall good condition of the facilities on road I-6 in Pernik District makes the overpass at km 83+200. As I informed you, in February of this year the facility was investigated by specialists of the Institute of Roads and Bridges at the Road Infrastructure Agency. Such an investigation was also carried out in May this year. Details show that the overpass is in poor operational condition. Regional road management.. Pernik has taken action to repair the damage to the pavement in the part which is most compromised around the fugues. In the long term it is necessary to carry out repair and reconstruction activities of the facility, and for this purpose will be entrusted the development of a technical project. In my previous reply to you on the problem, I informed you that the Road Infrastructure Agency, when planning its investment programme this year, will take into account the need for design documentation for the repair of the overpass and, if possible, the procedure for selecting a designer will be started by the end of the year. Budget restrictions imposed restructuring of the initial plans. A large part of the sites that we had pawned, which need project collateral and repairs, are at a standstill for now, with the overpass at km 83. However, this does not mean that the Agency underestimates the problem, on the contrary. The poor condition of the facilities, despite the lack of funds, will seek opportunities for financing and carrying out the activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u291	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u292	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, this is the third question I ask about this facility located at km 83+200. This is a facility that falls into the urbanized territory of the town of Pernik. I understand from your response that Pernik municipality and the mayor of Pernik municipality did not take appropriate measures to secure the railings. I understand that from you, you just confirmed it. This one, first. Secondly, I have before me a report from the API of 9 March 2018. I will read you the exact damage, namely: It's an API report. Here's the report. [[shows]] . I've asked a question to the previous minister. I got an answer that he was going to do a project. I ask the question to you for the second time and I get the answer that a project is being drawn up for this facility. You yourself say in an interview that this is one of the busiest routes in Pernik region. Twenty-seven thousand cars pass within the day. 27 thousand cars, two districts serve! So, Mrs. Secretary, there's no way we can get away with patching holes. You need to make a precise and clear commitment when, as soon as possible, the strengthening of this facility will take place, because in the end, we are fully called upon to protect the life and health of all travelers on the Republican road network of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u293	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Here you go, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u294	Thank you. Dear Mr. Bonev, in that we need to ensure the safety of the movement as well as of the bridge facilities, we are of the same opinion as you know and are currently carrying out repair activities of viaducts and bridge facilities throughout the country. Indeed, both you and I are worried about the state of this facility. What I can make as a commitment is that by the end of 2019 the public procurement will be announced and a contractor will be selected, as well as that we are looking for additional funds and assistance from the state budget so that we can finance the most pressing renovation activities on the Republican road network.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u295	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. The next question is from the National Representative Sevim Ali concerning Republican Road III-208 Provadia "Daskotna" Aytos from km 51+130 to km 82+650, within the territorial range of the municipality of Rouen Here you go, Mr. Ali, two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u296	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Avramova, on 15 November 2018, once again at the insistence of the residents and the management of the Municipality of Rouen, to the attention of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, I put an extremely serious problem concerning the Republican road III Provadia "Discotna" Aytos with a total length of 33.5 km and a rock tunnel between the villages of Bilka and Dobromir, which is located at 56th km and serving both Burgas and Varna region, which are in an extremely poor operational state. On 23 November 2018, I received a satisfactory reply from you on the fact that, firstly, the discrepancies found between the quantitative account and the published projects for that contract have been removed and the new estimated value of the contract for the two lots is worth 19 million. 671 thousand. lv. without VAT. Second, the contract with the purpose of determining the contractor for the construction of the two buildings Lot 29 and Lot 30 was announced again on 20 November 2018 and the deadline for receiving the tenders of the participants was until 14 January 2019. Seen from the API website, on 15 February 2019 a protocol No 1 for opening offers to participants was published on the buyer profile, which states that eight offers were deposited. From February until now, although sufficient technological time has passed to obtain the requested documents and to pronounce the Commission on the compliance of the participants, the date for opening the price proposal has not yet been announced, and this, in turn, puts at daily risk the health and safety of road segment users, as well as running out of patience. In this regard, my question to you, Madam Minister, is: what is the reason for the delay in the work of the Commission in examining and evaluating the tenders, and when will the work of the Commission be completed under the procedure for determining the contractor, and within what time limits will the construction of both Lot 29 and Lot 30 begin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u297	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Come in for an answer, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u298	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ali, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In relation to the question asked about the public procurement with the subject of a contractor for the construction of two sites.. Lot 29 and Lot 30 of Operational Program..Regions in growth, especially position I, Lot 29, road III 208 Provadia "Duskotna from km 49 to 65 with a total length of 16.7 km, districts Burgas and Varna and separate position II, Lot 30, road III-208 Dusttna. Aytos from km 65 to 82 with a total length of 16.8 km Burgas region, I would like to make one clarification first. Protocol No 1 of the Commission's work on opening of tenders for participation in the order of art. 54 and the next of the Rules for the Implementation of the Public Procurement Act was drawn up and signed by the members of the Commission on 15 March 2019 and not as referred to in your question on 15 February. On 8 February the offers of eight participants in the procedure were opened and four of them were consortiums. Following verification of the participants' documents, the Commission found shortcomings in the tenders. Protocol No 1 of the Commission's work is based on art. 39, para. 2 of the Public Procurement Act for compliance with the requirements of the contracting authority for personal status and selection criteria. Once the participants in the procedure have submitted corrected documents according to the findings in Protocol No 1, the Commission has reviewed and assessed their compliance with the requirements and has carried out an evaluation of the technical proposals of the participants in the procedure according to award criteria for an optimal quality-price ratio that is currently being carried out. The public procurement shall be awarded on the basis of an economically most advantageous tender. The complex assessment of each tender, for each position separately, shall be formed as a sum of a total price offered for the performance of the contract and an assessment of the level of performance of the construction offered in each tender in accordance with the subject-matter of the contract and the technical specifications. The Commission shall work at the stage of assessing the technical proposals, i.e. assessing the level of execution of the works proposed in each tender. This assessment shall be in three stages, in accordance with the proposed technology and organisation of all types of works and activities from the quantitative account with the linear timetable, including preparatory works and all other accompanying works which ensure quality and time-consuming performance, two equivalences of the organisation proposed by the participant and the mobilisation and distribution of the technical resources used, and three proposed by the participant an organisation plan for the provision of the materials necessary to carry out the construction works included in the quantitative account showing the ability to deliver them within the time-limit. In order to establish justified evaluations, it is necessary for the Commission to take into account the technical design for road sections and then proceed to the review of the tenders submitted. The Commission shall carry out assessments on the above indicators. When assessing the proposal of a consortium participant, this further complicates the assessment because the proposals of the participants in the contract are examined separately. Although the above stages require more time for a thorough and precise examination of the documentation and evaluation, the Road Infrastructure Agency is confident that the Commission's work will be completed very soon.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u299	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. You have an opportunity for a line, Mr. Ali. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u300	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for the answer you give me to the extremely serious and painful problem over the years, which relates to the poor operating condition of the road section Provadia. I declare to you that the patience of the people who use this road section has been exhausted and they declare their readiness for effective strike actions, including the closing of the road for motor vehicles, because, believe me, Madam Minister, if you are currently moving more than 30 or 40 km/hours in this road section of Provadia Yes, this road section is extremely important for the inhabitants of the municipality of Rouen, as it passes through the territory of the municipality of Rouen, but there is one important fact that should not be forgotten.. This road section is the main road artery between two districts, between Burgas and Varna, and in this sense it is used very intensively by the inhabitants of both districts. And, if necessary, Madam Minister, take responsibility from your employees, your subordinates who are directly involved in conducting this procedure, as any delay in this procedure, the repair and rehabilitation of this road section puts at risk the health and security of the people who use this road section daily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u301	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Would you like a douche? Thank you. The next question is from the National Representative Kolyo Milev about the landslide in the area of the cave on road II-53 to the village of Byala, Municipality of Sliven. Then we will give Mr. Yachev the opportunity to ask a question to Minister Angelkova under an Agreement between Ministers. Here you go, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u302	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! Despite the repeated promises and declared actions in the direction of the destruction of the landslide in the area of the cave on road II-53 to the village of Byala, Municipality of Sliven, including in your replies within the parliamentary control, the extremely serious and dangerous state of Republican road 253 in the village of Byala, town of Sliven is still taking place today. My question to you is: when will the problem of the destruction of the landslide in the area be finally solved, and the eradication of the landslide problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u303	Thank you, Mr. Milev. Here you are, Mrs Avramova, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u304	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Milev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As I already answered you, Mr. Milev, during the parliamentary control carried out on 23 November 2018, the landslide of km 107+200 on Republican road II-53 Elena The procedure is prevention and countering of landslide processes to limit their risk, including on the Republican road network. At present there is a prepared and approved Technical project for the site of a landslide on road II-53 Elena The value of the construction works provided for the implementation is 2 million. 245 thousand. BGN 374. For the technical project there is a prior agreement for construction under art. 96, para. 3 of the ECU, issued by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works for the implementation of strengthening and geo-defense measures and activities, and an EIA decision. A comprehensive report on the assessment of compliance with the essential requirements for construction works is to be prepared. In preparation are the procurement documents for the selection of a contractor, for carrying out an MRI and construction supervision, and will be published on the website of the Public Procurement Agency by September 2019. By the end of October 2019 we plan to conclude an administrative contract for the provision of grants between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Managing Authority of the Operational Environment 2014 The successful implementation of the site landslide on road II-53 Elena "Sliven" Yambol, km 107+200, included in the project proposal with the subject of transfer and countering the landslide processes on the Republican road network phase 2 will contribute to the implementation of the main objective of the project proposal, namely reducing the risk of landslides, protecting the lives and health of the population, infrastructure and the environment through the implementation of geo-protection measures and activities in the landslide areas. The indicator to be achieved by strengthening the landslide is 1,03 hectares of the total planned for the entire project 9,61 hectares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u305	Thank you, Madam Secretary. For a line, Mr. Milev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u306	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. I understand that the problems of alienating the areas around the landslide and around this republican road have already been overcome, the procedure for awarding construction remains. Given that September-October is approaching and the winter period, hopefully for spring we will have a finished object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u307	Thank you, Mr. Milev. Now, as I announced, I give the floor to the MP Boris Yachev to develop a question on the promotion of Black Sea tourism to Minister Angelkova. Here you go, Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u308	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister! Since the end of June 2019, huge traffic jams have been shown on all Bulgarian television stations at our border crossings with Greece due to the mobilization of Bulgarian citizens who want to rest in our southern neighbour. At the same time there are numerous reports from the Bulgarian Black Sea coast, where there are huge beaches, unfortunately, with a fluent number of tourists and empty sunbeds and umbrellas. Much of the media publications also noted your direct responsibility for failing to comply with the concept of free umbrellas and sunbeds proposed by you at the beginning of your first term, which you then presented to the media and tourism industry. When creating the Ministry of Tourism and transferring the concessionation of the sea beaches by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to it you have repeatedly declared that for the increase of our Black Sea tourism follows, I quote: the bassis forecastable price of 1 number of umbrella or 1 number of sunbeds is 2 BGN, in settlements with about 10 thousand. people BGN 3 and at the national resorts BGN 4, which you also stated after the adoption of the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast by the Council of Ministers on 28 December 2016. In this regard, you said to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management on 14 January 2016 that you were providing for a grouping of beaches to reduce the cost of umbrellas and sunbeds. Unfortunately, this grouping has not yet been implemented despite repeated amendments to the Black Sea Coast Construction Act. After all, the Ministry of Tourism published it for public consultation on 8 August 2018 and did not import it through the latest amendments to the Law 2019 with which you basically only increase the fines on the beaches. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] At the moment on the beaches you dedicated in 2018 at the national resorts Golden Sands one umbrella and one sunbed have a price of 12 BGN, and in Sunny Beach 10 BGN, and outside the national resorts between 6 and 7 BGN. for an umbrella and a sunbed. These prices are equal to the price of one room in a 2- and 3-star hotel and repels a large number of Bulgarian tourists, especially those who are married and decided to visit the Black Sea coast and make them go to other countries where for 6 euros they receive 2 sunbeds, umbrella and drink. For this reason, the Bulgarian hoteliers no longer sell in their packages a holiday with an umbrella and a sunbed on the beach and they are additional expenses for each tourist. On the beach of Perla, Primorsko, for an umbrella of 25 BGN and in Chernomorets two sunbeds and umbrella of 40 BGN. In this regard, Minister, I would like to ask: how do you intend to reduce the prices of umbrellas and sunbeds in order to return Bulgarian and foreign tourists to our Black Sea coast after your methodology for granting concessions cannot reduce the cost of umbrellas and sunbeds, such as on only two beaches, Nestinarka. Don't you think that with low prices of umbrellas and sunbeds and free parking in Bulgaria we would attract Bulgarian tourists on our home Black Sea coast?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u309	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. Here you are, Mrs. Angelkova, for the answer to Mr. Yachev's question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u310	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Yachev! First, I would like to recall that the maritime beach management activity was transferred to the Minister of Tourism on 15 March 2016, with several months after that In the opening of the subsequent procedures for determining concessionaires on sea beaches, these criteria for a complex assessment shall apply. The decision of the Council of Ministers laid down a 40 per cent burden for a minimum price offered for 1 number of umbrellas and 1 number of sunbeds when applying for a concession on a beach. The introduction of this requirement regulates the ratio between the concession payment and the services offered, both of which are determined by the participant itself and ensures price regulation of these basic beach accessories. The objectives and reasons of these acts are the introduction of a complex approach in subsequent concession procedures to take account of the additional criteria with the necessary severity of the additional costs of beach accessories and additional services offered to achieve a reduction in the prices of umbrellas and sunbeds, offering quality additional services and objective initial assessment of the concession fee on each beach. I stress that, before the management of sea beaches goes to the Ministry of Tourism, the previously concluded contracts do not have any instrument at stake, binding conditions under the concession contract, with maximum prices of beach accessories. A large part of the concessions currently in force were concluded precisely in the late 1990s and the beginning of the new millennium under the conditions of a missing mechanism and a legal way to regulate the maximum prices for umbrella and sunbed. It is for these reasons that I absolutely do not accept the attempts to align everything to a common denominator. It is not correct to compare between the control of the execution of contracts and the clauses of those contracts with the clear awareness that the clauses are different due to the different legal conditions under which the contractual relationship arose. Since 2017, a maximum cost clause for an umbrella and a sunbed has been included in all new contracts for concessions or rent, I stress again the proposal by the participant itself, which is fixed and cannot be exceeded for the entire period of the contract. In the event of a breach of the declared price offer value, a contract penalty shall be imposed and, in the event of subsequent infringements, the contract may be terminated. We have shown that the implementation of strict and uncompromising control and since the Ministry of Tourism has been entrusted with the task of managing sea beaches has been terminated over 10 concession contracts and has increased the collected concession fees. Last year alone, revenues from concessions and rents at sea beaches cost 18 million. lv. At approximately 13 million. lv. at the time they were at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. We are imposing an extremely large number of penalties for non-compliance. Last year alone, over 420 thousand. lv. they were collected from penalties on findings of non-compliance. In order to correct reading in relation to the overall price picture, I inform you that out of a total of 143 sea beaches, which are owned for rent, 85 for rent, and 58 for concession, the average cost of an umbrella and sunbed at this time is for an umbrella around BGN 6.50 for a sunbed about BGN 5.60 for a sunbed. In addition to the above examples of low prices of Nestinarka and Burgas-North, I give you other similar examples: Sea beach Obzor-South. an umbrella, 3 leva. on a sunbed; [[the President signals that time has run out]] , "Pomorie-Central" "3.60 BGN." an umbrella, BGN 3.60. in sunbed; "Kabacum-north" umbrella 2 BGN, sunbed 2 BGN; Szkorpilovtsi (Szkorpilovtsi), umbrella 2 BGN, sunbed 2 BGN; Camping......................................................................................... umbrella, BGN 4 a sunbed, and so on. Some native beaches also offer free umbrellas and sunbeds for consumption. These are the ones from Atanasovska hair, Batovski beach and Sozopol part 2, Lahana 1 and Ribarski mineral pool.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u311	Guide to completion, Mrs. Angelkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u312	Yeah, I'm done. I would like to point out that Bulgarian tourism has been working entirely in a market environment for many years and competition between market entities is the one that sets prices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u313	Thank you. For your reply, Mr. Yachev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u314	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, the penalties quoted by you in the form of fines and the amounts collected, to tell you the truth, do not impress BGN collected from fine of outstanding concessionaires, this is probably half the seasonal profit of a more serious concessionaire on the southern Black Sea coast. In the end, however, the Ministry of Tourism should not become a peddar; it should not become a body that only sanctions. It is your duty to prevent the adoption of such regulations, which, by the way, are laid down on your legal basis, which will prevent such infringement by the concessionaires, respectively, of a fine, but what is more important, which will bring back tourists to the Bulgarian Black Sea coast. In this regard, an additional question: when will you publish on your Ministry's website a requirement signed by you concerning the layout and content of the scheme for placing moving objects and facilities, including additional commercial areas on the sea beach, which stand without signature, perhaps from November 2017 but on which, despite all, all concession holders and tenants for 2 years make their scheme.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u315	Thank you, dear Mr. Yachev. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u316	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Yachev! The requirements for schemes for the placement of movable objects and facilities are clearly described in the Law. The instructions that we have given on the Ministry's website do not have the power of a legal or other legal document but are to facilitate the work of concessionaires and tenants in connection with the fulfilment of their requirements under law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u317	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Yachev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u318	Of course I'm not satisfied with the protocol response. The Bulgarian citizens, who love our Black Sea coast and would like to rest on it, are certainly not satisfied to choose it over foreign beaches. Madam Minister, I hope that the conversation we will have at the end of this and at the beginning of the next political season will be more positive.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u319	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. Mrs. Angelkova, have a good day! We continue with questions to Minister Avramova. A question from the MP Christian Vigenin regarding the opening of a new border crossing between Bulgaria and northern Macedonia.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u320	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, the signing of the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Northern Macedonia has brought new dynamics in relations between the two countries. Focus was placed on the implementation of specific projects that would benefit citizens. Such a project is undoubtedly the opening of the border control post "Klepalo" between the municipalities of Strumiani and Berovo, for which the two countries agreed in the distant 1999. To this end it is necessary to rebuild the Bulgarian section from the road to the border, respectively to rehabilitate the road from the Macedonian country, and the activities are being carried out at the moment. In this regard, I would like to ask you: at what stage is the implementation of the Bulgarian section and is there an indicative date for completion of the activities and opening of the new border crossing point?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u321	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u322	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Mr Vigenin, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The transport link to the planned border crossing point of the border with the Republic of Northern Macedonia is carried out via Republica Road III-1008 /I-1 / Strumyani "Razdol" border of the Republic of Northern Macedonia with a total length of about 30 km. From the construction of the Republican road until last year no repair activities were carried out along the route, but only partial patching and laying of ballast. In 2018 a preventive repair was carried out on road III-1008 /I-1 /Strumyani The implementation of the preventive repair includes: ground and rock pits, cold recycling of road pavement, laying asphalt concrete flooring in three layers. The funds for the preventive repairs are provided by the budget of the Agency The value of the site is 15 million. 429 thousand. BGN 219. VAT of which 14 million has been used 459 thousand. £644. with VAT, as in the village of Mikrevo, Strumyani municipality, the section from km 0 to km 1+720 remained unrepaired. The municipality provides for construction of plumbing and sewerage in the locality, and after completion of the site there is a commitment to restore asphalt concrete flooring. In the rest of the third-class road, repaired preventively by the current maintenance, from km 1+720 to km 22+062 is about to be placed on horizontal marking and mounting of vertical alarms and also restrictive systems. The road is partially mounted on a restraining fence. The value of the remaining types of repairs is not included in the cost of the pre-emptive repair assignment. The problem of bringing all the way to the modern requirements for transport communication and comfort of the journey remains, however, as in the rest of the third-class road from km 22+062 to km 30+800 with the length of the section about 8.8 km, the implementation of new construction is necessary. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Madam President. The situational and galactic development of the existing road implies a complete reconstruction, which will require the development of a parcel plan, the implementation of procedures in the order of the EEA and an alienation procedure. The draft budget of the Agency for Design in 2019 planned the launch of the procurement and, due to the limited financial framework, it was postponed over time. The value of the construction works will be determined after the completed and approved technical project has been completed. In the back, Madam President, I will complete my reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u323	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Vigenin, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u324	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, perhaps there will be a little more specific about the time frame as you imagine it, but I am not very satisfied with the answer you give me. It's a good thing we have these technical details that you've informed us about. The fact that he is still not ready to start building the section of the road, which is actually new construction and is the biggest problem, and it bothers me personally. In fact, it was this time and the opening of the Border Crossing Point that the two governments agreed on in the autumn, as I recall, after the signing of the Treaty of Good Neighborhood, Friendship and Cooperation. The idea was that some concrete results should be shown from the normalization of relations, some steps to show citizens on both sides of the border that investing in good neighbourly relations makes sense and results for people themselves. By listening to you, not only will the project not be completed by the end of the year, as planned and as commitments were made, as I recall, but probably will not happen before the end of next year, and that concerns me personally. I really hope that you will find the necessary resources, make the necessary efforts, and at least something concrete will happen in relations between the two countries. Big things are said at the Sofia meeting during our Presidency were commented big projects that have a horizon of at least five or six years, that and more if we talk about the railway connection, but let's try something concrete to do. Otherwise, it remains the feeling that it is all a big talk, and when it comes to the specific things either there is no money or there is no desire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u325	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. For the doppelganger, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u326	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Vigenin, it is important for me to complete my response, which is consistent with what you just said in your line. We are looking for opportunities to implement the project fully and to open the Border Crossing Point, as within the framework of our competence, the Directorate-General for Territorial Cooperation is exploring the opportunities for financing strategic projects under the territorial cooperation programmes. In the new programming period among the potential projects submitted and border crossing points, we discuss them, in particular Clepalo, Strumiani and Berovo. The negotiations are at an initial stage and discussions are to be held with the national partner body of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, and very recently we had a conversation with the new Minister of the Resort Ministry, which is related to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. On his part, we have support for focusing on such projects, which have strategic importance for Bulgaria and the Republic of Northern Macedonia. We have talked specifically about the Border Control Post, so we are looking for opportunities for realization, we are looking for financial instruments with which we can implement this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u327	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is again by the National Representative Christian Vigenin on the stage implementation of the Yambol Road. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u328	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, in mid-April, in the framework of GERB's pre-campaign for the European elections you visited Yambol district and promised a number of generous future benefits for the region. At the press conference with the Regional Coordinator of GERB and Mayor of Yambol Mr. Georgi Slavov, you said: BGN, of which 12 million lv. are for the construction of the railway crossing. In this regard, I would like to ask you: is funding provided for the project and what funds are you planning to implement? Is the project included in the Agency's Investment Programme "Travel Infrastructure" for 2019? If so, when is the start of construction work envisaged? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u329	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u330	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Vigenin, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yambol's bypass was part of the project "Transit Roads V" funded by a state guaranteed loan from the European Investment Bank. The project ended at the end of 2016 and due to the limited budget of the Programme over the years the construction of the section is not realized. The Road Infrastructure Agency has carried out all required procedures under the Law on Construction on the territory and there is an approved detailed plan defining the area of each property affected by the site's route. The alienation procedures are over. The area of Yambol is situated from km 146+590 to km 160+150 and the section of km 146+590 to km 148+890 is a new construction and from km 148 to km 160 is a rehabilitation. For the construction of the Republican road II-53 Yambol To update the Technical Project and conduct a procedure for selection of contractor for construction of the site are sought financial opportunities and realization, the indicative value of the project is 100 thousand. BGN, and for the construction and installation works lv. As so far, repair activities will be commissioned in the future in order to ensure the safe movement of the Republican road network in Yambol. In this regard, I inform you that the announced contract for the development of a technical project for repair and repair activities of over a railway line at km 145+631 on road II-53 Sliven. On July 10, 2019 was signed a contract with the contractor "Consult 2000" Ltd. worth 76 thousand. 200 leva. with VAT. The commitments I made to the residents of Yambol to the mayor of Yambol are the commitments I continue to follow to secure financial resources. I also rely on appropriate assistance from the state budget due to the limited resources of the Road Infrastructure Agency so that all the commitments that we have made to you as MPs at the time of parliamentary control and our visits to cities can be fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u331	Thank you, dear Minister. Come in for a cue, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u332	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I understand how complicated your situation is. To be honest, I'm always surprised because there is often a lack of financial resources in your answers. I don't know how it happens that some things are planned, and then it turns out that for some of them there is no financial resource, although the specific resource you said ends in 2016, there was a loan, there was a construction plan, and somehow the resource didn't reach just for Yambol. When you say that you will proceed to the completion of the southern tour before the elections, you have to say: you will proceed, but another time, because before all elections are generally promised some things, but they never happen. I am sure that now you will approach the local elections and you, or GERB in Yambol, will still promise that you will proceed to the completion of the tour, but there is no money available for this year. As far as I'm concerned, it won't be a priority for the next one, and at least that's what you're saying. I believe that citizens should not be lied to, and if something is done, it should be done indeed. To be honest with them, because expectations are being created that are to the detriment of both you and your political power, which you represent, also destroys trust in the institutions. This section of the road is really problematic. The fact that occasionally mending the holes does not solve the main problem that the citizens of Yambol have, not only of Yambol, but of the region. It is part of the regional road infrastructure and is important for all municipalities in the area. I don't have any further questions, but my real appeal is: when something doesn't happen, don't say that it will happen, because as the elections have become more frequent in April, September-October will come and what you will tell them I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u333	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. For the doppelganger, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u334	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Vigenin, I am not one of the ministers who boasts great promises, but, on the contrary, I am very thrifty when I make specific commitments. The time in which I can fulfill them is probably not what people expect me to do in one or two months to actually start construction. Of course, you know very well as a Member of the National Assembly that we must limit ourselves to the budget that you have accepted for the Road Infrastructure Agency, so the commitment has not been dropped. I continue to work on this subject where I have made such commitments so that it becomes a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u335	Thank you, dear Minister. Following is a question of MPs Daniel Yordanov and Krasimir Yankov concerning permanent and systemic problems with the water supply of Dobrichka municipality. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u336	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, dozens of citizens have addressed us as MPs, alarming for serious problems in the water supply of many villages from Dobrich municipality. According to their claims, there are systemic problems in water supply along entire routes, and in certain settlements there is no such problem, and for reasons the low or volatile pressure is indicated. Citizens' questions to the management of the company are answered: there are no accidents! Notwithstanding the signals, whole settlements remain without water for days. According to information from the village of Paskalevo, there has been no water supply in the last ten days. On 4 July 2019 40 people gathered in front of the company's building, mayors, mayors, municipal councilors from Dobrichka Municipality, to sign up for a reception day on which to express their discontent with what service the company offers. Surprised by the presence of so many people in front of the building of the water, the words of the director of the company.................... are:...I do not know what this thing is dictated by, we do not stop water anywhere. I don't know what this whole fair is about and what the mayors are here for, but I know elections are coming. If you pay attention to local media reports, you will see that there are mayors from all political parties, which completely contradicts the opinion of the director of the local media for politicizing the problem. People just don't have water! On 9 July 2019 several companies from Dobrich protest that they do not have water.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u337	Face the question, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u338	Yes, Madam President. Yesterday on July 30, 2019 there was also a protest in the villages of Kardam and Spasovo. Provoked by these problems, our questions to you are as follows: how many emergency water stops are there? What is the number of subscribers left without water since the beginning of the year? What is the state of the water? Does he serve his clients according to the regulations and the Constitution of the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u339	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u340	Thank you. Dear Madam President, Mr. Yordanov, Mr. Yankov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The regional water and sewerage operator Dobrich is providing services to the users on the basis of a contract for the management, maintenance and operation of the water systems and facilities and the provision of water services to the users, concluded with the Water and Water Association Dobrich. The external plumbing and internal network operated by the company have a high degree of physical depreciation due to the fact that the network was built in the period 1955 The water supply operator shall carry out the necessary activities to restore water supply by complying with the regulatory requirements for notification to consumers. According to Bulgaria's Dobrich, despite the increase in water supply in the localities of the municipality, there is a shortage of drinking water due to its use for watering and other agricultural activities. The company implements continuous actions and measures to improve the energy efficiency of water supply systems, such as optimization of the water supply system with the exclusion of high energy water sources, optimization of pump operation, replacement of pump units and others. Increases the collection of claims shall be made by improving the measurement of the water quantities spent, timely notification to customers of overdue liabilities, non-excession of the three-year limitation period, timely measures for searching for overdue liabilities, improving the organisation and the ability to pay the services, minimizing physical and commercial losses by regulating pressure, establishing and interrupting unregulated connections to the water networks, rehabilitation and replacement of the most depreciated part of the water supply network. According to the company's capabilities, investments are made by municipalities, including on the territory of the municipality of Dobrichka, according to the investment programme of the contract concluded. For the 15-year term of the contract, the company should make investments worth a total of 6 million. BGN, distributed by municipalities according to the needs of the water supply system. Investment obligations are also realised in accordance with the company's energy and water regulation business plan approved by the Commission, with a total value of 11,5 million for the current regulatory period 2017. lv. and are invested in public infrastructure and own assets. In addition to the investment programme, the company plans and implements an annual planned repair programme, which is linked to the rehabilitation of water pipelines, facilities and reinforcements, with the resulting accidents being removed according to the regulatory deadlines. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In addition, I inform you that for the separate territory of The operator submitted a project proposal worth about 113 million. lv. for funding from Operational Programme "Environment". Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u341	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Yankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u342	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, do you read the questions we ask you or are you mechanically reading what the experts have prepared for you? To repeat the question: how many emergency water stops are there and what is the number of subscribers left without water since the beginning of the year? You didn't say anything! What is the state of the water and is Dobrich serving according to the regulations and the Constitution of the country's clients? I can answer that question no! In front of you we have presented facts about settlements where there is no water for more than a week! We understand from your comment that there are no serious problems. Everything is going according to the investment program. When asking the question, we mentioned only one village of Paskalevo, but there are problems in the village of Victora, Kragulevo, Plachidol and many others. That's why, by the way, the mayors, the mayors, are interested in water problems and went to the meeting with the water manager. It is not normal for citizens to ignore the right to receive a service for which they are paid, which they must be guaranteed, when sending signals from citizens. I would like to stress to you that as soon as we signal the problem, there is a harvest campaign going on and imagine how the people involved in it feel at a temperature of over 30 degrees and without a drop of water!? I invite you, by the way, along with my colleague, to Dobrudja, you have not come to see how people live without water. There is no explanation for the statement of the manager of the water water service. One question for you: is he a political appointment, or is he an expert? You are not responsible for his appointment, but you are responsible for the performance of the duties of the management. From Sandanski, the former minister appointed a governor in Dobrich. What kind of commitment is there? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In conclusion, I ask you to answer me, first, specifically, the question. And, secondly, what measures will the ministry in charge take and, respectively, you to improve the service so that the citizens in Dobrich district will have a specific question in Dobrich municipality, but we are going to ask a question about the other municipalities to have water? Will there be a financial resource for lasting resolution of the problems, Madam Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u343	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u344	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Yankov, all my answer contained information about problems and what the company does to minimize problems and provide drinking water to the residents. What I could not say in my reply, and what you in your reply actually asked as an additional question is: how will we provide more funding so that we can do the necessary repair activities and have quality water supply? What I couldn't say is that the water service operator has submitted its own to the Operational Programme "Environment." Within the framework of the regional pre-investment survey, measures have been identified to achieve compliance with the European directives on settlements in the Dobrich region with a population of 50 to 2000 inhabitants. For the municipality of Dobrichka 16 projects for the reconstruction of external plumbing and internal plumbing networks with a total length of 26 km and the construction of two facilities for the purification of drinking water are defined. The total value of the investment is more than 11 million. lv. These funds will be sought to finance the projects. In conclusion, we believe that the water service operator as a regional water service operator carries out its activities and the efforts of the management of the company, its shareholders and the owners of the public assets are in the direction of providing good service and responsible treatment to consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u345	Thank you, dear Minister. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the MP Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev on the need for serious radical reforms in the structure and organization of the work of the DNCK. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u346	Dear Madam President, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, Mr Minister! In recent months, the work of the National Construction Control Directorate has been actively commented on in the public space. Controversial and inconsistent decisions in connection with the case in the construction of a building "Golden century" have sparked a lot of comments with doubts about prejudice and a vague explanation about the regularity of the issuance of the building permit. The Directorate for National Construction Control shall exercise control over compliance with the Law on Structure of Territories and Regulatory Acts on its Implementation, when designing construction, including the introduction of quality materials in construction, a view of security, safety, accessibility and other regulatory requirements for construction works, investigating, documenting the accidents in construction works. The National Construction Control Directorate shall exercise control over the legality of the implementation and use of construction works of the first, second and third categories, control the issue of construction works, all categories of construction works, as well as actions in the municipal administration, participation in the investment process to comply with the provisions of construction on the territory, all categories of construction works. Dear Minister, my question to you is: what measures have you taken and will you take to improve the work of your entrusted directorate, which is extremely important in guaranteeing the control of the entire investment process in the country?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u347	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Here you are, Mrs Avramova, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u348	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Georgiev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With Decree No 127 of 22 May 2019 of the Council of Ministers a new Rules of Procedure of the National Construction Control Directorate was adopted. The decree made a change in the structure and organization of work at the DNC. The existing until 31 May 2019 six regional Directorates of National Construction Controls, which included twenty-eight regional departments of National Construction Controls, were reorganised in twenty-eight regional Directorates of National Construction Controls in accordance with the current Article. 221, para. 1 of ZUT. The creation of 28 RDNC in the district centers will improve control in the construction sector and coordination of the administrative services of the natural and legal persons in the country. The benefit for society will be to prevent the introduction into operation of construction works met in violation of the requirements of the Law on Construction in the Area, with construction products which do not comply with the basic requirements for construction works. The motive for adopting a new DNCC Rules of Procedure was to build a tighter and better functioning administrative system of the Directorate to ease the overall administration of the work process. The new structure aims, first, to reduce the administrative burden according to a decision of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria, and, second, in every district city to be situated the administrative unit of RDNC. In this way, it will be easier for citizens living in the area itself to have immediate contact with the structures of the National Building Control Directorate. The Rules of Procedure entered into force on 1 June 2019. The Directorate of Building Control was established to perform control functions according to the provisions of the Law on Construction of the Area, including activities in construction, internal and construction control. The Directorate-General was created and consultants who carry out the work of putting construction into operation and overseeing the activities of the persons exercising construction supervision. Apart from the above, in order to improve the work of DNCK, July 2017 the DNCC is re-certification according to the international standard BDS EN ISO 9001:2015. Since the introduction of the quality management system in 2008 annually, the DNCC has carried out control audits by the external German certification organisation OMI OiroSert GmbH As regards the alleged allegations concerning contradictory and inconsistent decisions concerning the case of suspension of the construction of the building, I can inform you of the following: In connection with a check carried out by the DNCC, it was found that the construction works on the construction are performed at significant deviations from the approved investment projects within the meaning of Art. 1754, para. 2, p. 5 of LU, without complying with the procedure under art. 154, para. 5 and para. 6 of ZUT. In this respect, on 15 April 2019 a reasoned order was issued by the Head of the DNCC on the basis of art. 224 of ZUT for stopping the works of Arteks engineering JSC - Golden Age. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] One sentence, Mr. Chairman. The order to stop the construction "Golden century" is addressed to the interested parties, including published on the website of the DNCC. She was appealed by the Artex Golden Age, the case is under way and a decision of the Sofia City Administrative Court is pending as the first instance. In this sense, I believe that I should not comment on the case any more before the competent authority decides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u349	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u350	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues! I will not focus on this particular project because it may be thought that there is also some conflict of interest, but I suppose you are familiar with the shocking Report No 90-05-10-99 from the end of 2018, which found a lot of official violations for insufficient control when spending the public funds of the DNC. Computers are purchased without Windows license, no configuration, paper archive lack, electronic media archive is missing, accounting software is unreliable, the legal system is also unusable, and these are only a small part of the report on unfinished work. You know that the budget of your dedicated DNCC service is about 10 million and employs over 400 employees. However, we believe that the effectiveness is not satisfactory and we recommend that you pay particular attention to the management of the DNCC to do its job properly and that there should therefore be as little lost cases as possible to be conducted against the DNCC. We have information that many of the cases that lead the DNCA, for example, as you said, unfinished work by the builder or the contractor, ultimately the cases are won by the performers, not the Agency. In this way, our recommendation is to pay serious attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u351	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mrs. Avramova, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u352	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Georgiev, the case that you refer to with the report, which leaked in mysterious ways to the media, this is a report which has been entered in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. I do not know how he got to the media and you quote it yes, there were findings, according to the report's writer, of irregularities at the DNC. My resolution on this report is to carry out an audit in the structures of the DNC, so the internal audit of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works by my order carries out an audit at the National Construction Control Directorate. At the end of August, when they have to complete the inspection, I will have a report on the checks carried out throughout the structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u353	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. That was the last question for you. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the question to Danail Kirilov, Minister of Justice, from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska on the reform of child justice. Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u354	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! For another year, the system for working with children in conflict with the law continues not to meet international standards and the reform in the field of child justice is not to take place in a number of strategic documents. Despite the vices established by the Ministry of Justice of the current regulatory framework, there is no systemic change and tens of thousands of children in Bulgaria continue to be subject to a system contrary to international standards. Moreover, in 2016, an inter-agency working group was established in the Ministry of Justice to draw up a Draft Law on Deviation from criminal proceedings and the imposition of educational measures on minors, the purpose of which is to abolish the obsolete since 1958. A Law on Combating the Anti-Society of Minors and Adolescents and to introduce new legislation in line with international standards for working with child offenders, which guarantees children's rights. So far, the work on the Bill has not progressed. There is no political will to build consensus in favour of children's rights and this condemns reform, and in this case there should be consensus and agreement between the institutions in the face of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the State Agency for Child Protection, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Education and Science. In 2018, a consultation document on the new law was published on the public consultation portal. In general, it is unclear when the Ministry plans to submit this bill in view of our concern that in June 2019 the deadline for transposition of Directive 2016/800, which concerns procedural guarantees for children suspected or accused in criminal proceedings, has expired. In this regard, Dear Minister, at what stage is the preparation of the new bill after it has been apparently transferred for five years by a working group to a working group or from drawer to drawer. Most likely, I hope, because in the priorities of the Ministry... almost for two years now, you bet as a priority this new law to give us a positive answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u355	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Here you are, Mr. Minister for Answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u356	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, thank you for this question. I will save myself the presentation of some of the facts and circumstances that you rightly pointed out, such as the publication in the public consultation portal of this advisory document, which contained the main issues on which we wanted an opinion of the civil society organisations concerned. You yourself said that this was a matter which was repeatedly discussed. I'm going to join that finding of yours. I would remind you that even in the previous Parliament, even if I am not mistaken, a bill was adopted at first reading in this sense, which concerns so-called child justice. On a factual point, I would say that the results of the public consultation on the consultation document were also reported at a meeting of the Council on the implementation of the updated strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary, as well as the report on the overall preliminary assessment of the impact of the bill drawn up by the team formed by the Ministry of Justice. In January 2019 an expert working group comprising representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Interior and the non-governmental sector resumed work on this bill. The working group reached consensus on the need to build a system of measures to protect the best interest of the minor offender in respect of his dignity, as well as the dignity of the victim of the infringement by individualisation of the measures for educational impact in compliance with the physical, intellectual, moral and social development of the minor offender, as well as his right to education, the application of the least restrictive measure by which the objective of the Law can be achieved. You've probably taken at least a phase of the Project and all the topics and problems, so I'm not going to reproduce them. Debate on the scope of the bill, from which minors are currently excluded, and in this regard is the possible need to further develop appropriate advisory and supporting services in relation to them, as well as on the educational measure proposed by the Bill. If I have time, will I expand?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u357	Maybe in the back, if you want to do it, time is ticking.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u358	In the back. I reserve, Mr. Chairman, my right to clarify my personal vision of the movement of this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u359	Thanks for understanding. Mrs. Klisurska, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u360	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable ministers! I am glad that the Minister of Labour and Social Policy is also here. I am doing this as a deviation from the topic, but since the issue is also related to the activities of the Ministry in charge, I am glad that he will hear the debate on this issue. This advisory document, Mr. Minister, included several key issues for discussion which, to this day, do not find clarity. One of these questions is: which authorities will impose educational measures, has a decision been taken on this issue and the inclusion of minors in appropriate educational programmes? Moreover, it is necessary to clarify the role of social services and the resource provision of their responsibilities in support of children, since you mentioned that minors are dropping out of the scope of the Law. After all, in view of the legislative changes envisaged in the way in which you exposed them in the first part, it becomes clear that there will be a targeting of all persons under the age of 14 who committed a crime or administrative infringement to the child protection system. I have one concern because I am familiar with the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, about the lack of capacity of the system for working with these children will the funds provided for in the state budget? In view of the concern, as I mentioned, I hope you can clarify that. Finally, on 11 June 2019 the period for transposition of this Directive, which I mentioned earlier, namely 2016/800, which has a direct bearing on this legislation, expired. In view of this, I believe that you will answer me and we also need to make the relevant amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure to go parallel. In this regard, explain in full the vision of the Ministry and give an action plan when things will really happen, because the expiry of these deadlines under the directives I do not want to mention other directives on which the deadlines have expired can also lead to other more serious criminal procedures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u361	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Mr. Kirilov, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u362	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, dear Mrs. Klisurska! I will say the following: last week, the President of the Working Group, who has taken over the work and preparation of the new bill, and on amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code, which correspond respectively to the creation of a new law in this regard, reports to me that the working group has completed work with the following clarification. The work on the undisputed issues has been completed on those on which consensus could have been reached, but there are at least three groups of issues remaining that should not be resolved at the level of the working group. You rightly noted, and referred to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, in communication between the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Education, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and the State Agency for Child Protection. I have made a commitment to have such talks and Minister Biser Petkov, as a matter of fact, he got ahead of me in his wish, and the last Council of Ministers put the question vigorously because we also respect the movement of deadlines. You were still right on the issue of institutional allocation of competences in this complex work regarding juvenile offenders and, yes, I cannot miss, unfortunately, that you are right, that the issue is also about resource security. I take the commitment before you by the end of September this year, that is, at the beginning of your next parliamentary session, to do in the executive power and with the participation of civil society this communication so that we can submit a consensus project to the Council of Ministers. From now on, we will also rely on your active and meaningful participation, because this is a very serious change in terms of the regime for interaction with juvenile offenders and for reasons both you and we are worried that we need to find working and effective solutions that meet the current European standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u363	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov, for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the questions to Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy. The first question is from the MPs Nadia Klisurska and Georgi Stoilov on the analysis of the legislation and policies related to foster care. Are you, Mrs. Klisurska, going to develop the question? Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u364	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, as we are all aware, all children's homes at risk must be closed by 2025. In this regard, one of the alternative services offered by the State is foster care. It is an opportunity, but, although this service works in Bulgaria and develops, there are many questions that remain, many questions that are asked by foster parents, by the Association of Foster Parents, as well as by social workers. In this regard, our questions are also. By the end of 2018, about 2,300 children were accommodated in foster families, with only four of them in voluntary foster families. Back to the end of last year, the number of well-established foster families is a little more about 2450, of which only 7 voluntary families. For 2018, the largest number of children accommodated in foster families is those aged 6 to 14. It is not clear why in the end there remains a smaller number of children from zero to three years?! With regard to foster parents, we see that there are about 400 foster parents as statistical information that do not have children placed with them in view of their requirements for the age of the child. As early as last year, the Advisory Expert Council of the project adopted me and it was extended until the end of 2020, presented its recommendation with a view to the training and upgrade of these foster families, but also the amendment of the Regulation on Application and the methodology for establishing a required standard. In this regard, there are a number of issues related to foster care that have not been decided in years. One of them relates to the fact that foster workers are accepted by two types of relationships. It basically crystalizes the issue of the creation of a Single Financial Standard for Foster Care. This is postponed and not realized. Developing such a standard is key to the sustainability of foster care after the end of the project. [[the President signals that time has run out]] who is the only one financing this care with European funds. In this regard, our question is as follows: what are the main problems that you face? Do you have an analysis on these problems? What steps are you taking regarding the idea of introducing a Single Financial Standard with a view to the quality and effectiveness of the service?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u365	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Here you are, Mr. Petkov, for your answer, three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u366	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, housing in a foster family is only a temporary measure of protection that is taken in case the child needs to be accommodated outside the family, but there is no family of relatives and relatives to take care of him. It is thanks to the development of family accommodation measures in relation to relatives and relatives and in a foster family currently 65.3% of children who are staying outside the family are raised in a family environment. For comparison, I will point out that in 2010. 80% of these children were placed in resident services. I believe that it is better for every child to grow up in a family and not in resident care, especially in a specialized institution. Regarding the specific issue concerning the analysis of foster care and the problems encountered, I would like to point out that the main difficulties have been identified in the adopted by the Council of Ministers in October 2016 an updated action plan for the implementation of the National Strategy "Vision for the deinstitutionalization of children in the Republic of Bulgaria." In order to overcome them, appropriate measures are laid down in the Plan, such as: the development of specialized foster care for children with disabilities, children victims of violence or trafficking and unaccompanied refugee children. Another measure is aimed at improving the work of the public support centres in order to provide better trainings, consultations, risk assessment and needs, tracking the development of the child, including mediators and others. In support of these measures is implemented and Operation "Accept me 2015" which you mentioned in your question, funded by the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" for the 2014-2020 programming period. The coordinators of organizations and monitoring of the project are also obliged to carry out periodic and ongoing monitoring and analysis. With regard to this part of the issue, the introduction of a single financial standard for foster care, I would like to emphasise that, for the first time in the Social Services Act, which will, as is known, enter into force from 1 January 2020, is regulated that the activities for recruitment, evaluation and training of candidates for foster families, mutual adaptation, support and monitoring of child care by families of relatives or close or foster families will be financed by the state budget as a social service by common standard. In the framework of the Advisory Expert Council of the Project "Accept me 2015" a working group has been established which prepares a concrete proposal for a standard for foster care. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u367	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Here you go, Mr. Stoilov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u368	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer, but we don't think it's complete. What do I mean? In just one year more than 250 foster families have been deleted from the register, which means that on average 21 foster parents lose the right to take a child to raise. Of course, the cases of removal from the register are different. About 60% are voluntary for various reasons. About 10, 15% of cases that are for refusal, for removal from the register are due to the death of a foster parent or for voluntary withdrawal. The rest, however, are eliminated for poor care, harassment, violence, or neglecting the child. This is highly disturbing, extremely worrying and unacceptable. Obviously, the application assessment does not take into account the importance and responsibility of the foster parent. Is it taken into account that this service, this foster care, is related only to care, but also to the upbringing of the child or children? I do not want to go into the direction with the financial part, because it is quite sensitive and the money is never enough, but I would stress otherwise: the training of candidate parents is mandatory for everyone and, of course, on documents, everyone has passed it, but is that enough?! Are you aware that the rate of upgrade training passed is tragic? Because here the main thing is that through the knowledge and skills of foster parents, through their motivation, upbringing and feelings is preparing part of the future generation of our country. And if we do not put at the root of this problem, this foster care, a service, include more than providing the child's basic needs, then this problem will indeed deepen. This service depends on age and key to development and upbringing, skills and knowledge for our children. Mr. Minister, we are aware that there is no way you can offer a general solution to the problems of this nature. It is difficult and requires a lot of time, as it is related to a change in understanding and attitudes of different roles and participants in the process of the Sofia Social Assistance Agency, the regional foster care team, the regional directorate of social assistance, foster families.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u369	Please, Mr. Stoilov, navigate towards completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u370	In relation to what has been said so far, our supplementary questions are: do you foresee an amendment of the regulations in the direction of removing the possibility of applying for foster parents to determine the age of the child, regulating relations with foster parents, as well as the question of training? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u371	Thank you, Lord Stoilov. Here you go, Mr. Petkov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u372	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoilov, yes, in your reply you really pointed out the position of foster care as a measure of child protection. I would like to stress here that this is a protection measure that is regulated in the Child Protection Act and not a social service. In fact, social services are listed in the answer to the question activities related to the training, preparation of foster families for this highly responsible mission, I would say, focusing on the efforts within the current Project "Accept me 2015" as well as the preparation, as I mentioned in the reply, of the development of a single financial standard for financing these activities by the state. The provision of sufficient funds for the financing of these social services, namely the preparation, training, including building, for foster families would guarantee the quality of foster care, because in recent years it has grown as a scale. I mentioned what is the drastic change in the ratio of children who are accommodated in a family environment that are outside their biological family and children who are placed in resident care. This is a trend that will continue to develop, because, as Mrs Klisurska mentioned, there are specific deadlines for closure of all children's institutions in the transitional provisions of the Social Services Act. So foster care is a kind of alternative, in fact, to institutional housing, in homes. The objective of the project is to ensure the sustainability of these activities by financing the budget after the completion of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u373	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is also from the MPs Nadia Klisurska and Georgi Stoilov regarding a single information system for people with disabilities. Here you are, Mr. Stoilov, I hope you'll fit in both minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u374	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, colleagues! Dear Minister, at the end of last year and the beginning of this was adopted a whole new legislation relating to people with disabilities. The new Law on Disabled Persons regulates the creation of a Single Information System for Disabled Persons, which is a prerequisite from now on for the conduct of state policy in this area to become much more effective in guaranteeing these people's rights. The maintenance of a public portal with information on employers, accessible environment, projects and services of the Agency for people with disabilities is regulated. In addition to a register of disabled people, the information system will also contain strategic data, information on government policies and projects. In March, the draft Rules for the Implementation of the Law on Persons with Disabilities and in particular the establishment, maintenance, storage and use of various databases relating to people with disabilities, namely the above cited information system for people with disabilities, were also uploaded. Our question is provoked by a position expressed by the mothers of the System kills us, in which they present a number of problems related to the functioning of the register, on the other hand... and with an inquiry by employers about the possibility to use it for their own needs. Our question to you is: at what stage is the introduction of a Single Information System of Disabled People? Are there also problems related to its implementation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u375	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Mr. Petkov, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u376	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoilov, one of those regulated in the Law on People with Disabilities and specific functions of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities is to conduct and maintain an information system for people with disabilities. I would like to emphasise here that the development and implementation of such an information system is a process started in 2013. The information system for disabled persons should contain data on their health status, qualifications, educational degree, personal capacity, social inclusion, professional realization, socio-economic status, demographics and other data. These data serve to monitor and analyse the socio-economic status of disabled people and to plan activities related to meeting their individual needs and developing sectoral policies. At present, the Agency for Persons with Disabilities supports an information system for people with disabilities with 16 modules included. As a result of the debates held in a different format in 2018 in the course of the development of the Law with people with disabilities and at the insistence of organisations of and for people with disabilities, the information system for the Agency for people with disabilities is adopted to maintain a profile of each person with disabilities with the possibility of individual access to personal data for the person through identification. The Agency for Disabled Persons has developed and implemented a new part of the information system, namely a profile for disabled persons. This profile provides access to data to provide personal data for people with disabilities and services by the National Health Insurance Fund, the National Insurance Institute, the Social Assistance Agency, the National Revenue Agency, the Employment Agency, the Ministry of Education and Science. Automated data exchange shall be carried out with those institutions. The profile is accessible through the web interface of the electronic service system for registered users. The service shall provide access to any disabled person with registration in the secure electronic service system with a personal NSI identification code or with an electronic signature to the data stored for him in records of previous data controllers through the web services built in the profile. The profile shall update the data on persons with disabilities administered and maintained by that institution. The aim is to create an opportunity to carry out a personal data check, as well as to update them by making contact with the institutions, the primary data controllers. For access to the profile, there is a need for an expert decision of TelK and for the verification of medical expertise. In this regard, a communication has been prepared with information on the possibility of submitting applications to NELC on the basis of which to update the data of the person concerned in the NELC Information System. To facilitate users has been developed and published the manual for working with the profile of people with disabilities. The information system provides the possibility to fill and access data of sites of state, municipal, private and other bodies and organizations, as well as other underlying data. Any interested organisation or institution may complete data on its accessible sites in the information system, as a result of persons with disabilities, may obtain information on the use of the relevant locations and services in cases of need, as well as organise their spare time in relation to the receipt of cultural, tourist and other sites. An improvement of the information system is envisaged with a view to providing the possibility of operating with the functionality of administrative bodies working in the area of the rights of disabled people. Currently, according to the Agency for Persons with Disabilities, no problem areas have been identified with regard to the functioning of the system, but it is in the process of continuous improvement as any information system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u377	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You'll continue in the back. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u378	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! As you have already mentioned, this information system has been developed and implemented since 2013 and, to our great regret, I hope indeed that things, as you have said, are in the process of development and that it will be improved. Anyone who opens the Agency's page for people with disabilities and enters the "Profile of people with disabilities" button, what is shown in this profile, and the instructions given do not give this information for our great regret. Yes, indeed, in the instructions.. as given on the Agency's website, is that there will be information from all these institutions that you mentioned, but where the profile of the disabled person is reflected, we do not see anywhere the compilation of all this information relating to the Ministry of Education, the NRA, the Agency for people with disabilities and others. We see in Figure 8 this is how it is listed on the Agency's page, we see an expert TELMK solution which has been transposed into this register. Moreover, we read the comments relating to this person's profile and we read in these remarks: "In case the person has a issued and valid TELK solution, but it is not registered in the electronic system of NELK, then the person should submit an application to the director of NELK for verification. If such data is available, it will be adjusted by official means. If such data are missing, the person will be notified. This remark makes it clear that there are another prerequisites for bureaucratic procedures for disabled people, which will complicate them. Dear Mr. Chairman, give me ten seconds to ask another specific question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u379	I gave you a lot of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u380	We have introduced quotas, Mr Minister, and in the Rules for Implementation of the Law on Persons with Disabilities, the issue is extremely important. We've put in quotas for employers. These quotas must start with 1 or 2 July 2019, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure, three months after the promulgation of the Rules of Procedure. And employers have sent you for assistance in implementing certain recommendations relating to these quotas. They shall make recommendations on accessibility to the register, naturally, with the valid consent of the persons. In this regard, what action will the Ministry also take with regard to the implementation of these quotas, which we welcome, but we believe that the Rules do not regulate well enough and do not provide clarity to employers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u381	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Here you are, Mr. Petkov, if you'd like to have your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u382	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, in response to your reply, I would like to clarify that the Agency for Disabled Persons is not a holder but an administrator of the data on disabled people. These data shall be collected by other institutions and exchanged with the Agency for Persons with Disabilities and the frequency of this exchange shall be different. For example, with the Ministry of Education and Science regarding children with disabilities, this exchange is six months old. With other institutions, this exchange is in online mode. It is also working on this issue with regard to the actuality of the data which, respectively, the Agency's system for people with disabilities is maintained, and once again stressing, the data is from the registers of the relevant administrators who provide it to the Agency for people with disabilities. I agree that perhaps the way they serve in the profile for people with disabilities should be more understandable, more accessible to people with disabilities, respectively. There is certainly something to be done in this direction, and with regard to the comments you have cited here, I would like to emphasise that the data provided by the National Expert Commission are for expert decisions issued after 2015. Again, the problem here is not in the Agency for People with Disabilities, and therefore one of the options given by the system if a disabled person who has a TELK solution, respectively, the system does not show that there is data of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities, it can accordingly state in order to complete the system in due time. With regard to the other issue, the possibilities that this system could provide as data to employers. Yes, there will be work on this issue, but I would like to stress here that what we have answered and asked the employers' organizations could receive information about the disabled persons who have been assigned to them by the employment services, who are monitoring the health status and to whom those who are conscientious should declare their respective status. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u383	I thank Minister Petkov for his response and for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the questions to the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov. The first question is from the MPs Valentina Naydenova and Milko Nedyalkov on the recultation of a landfill for non-hazardous waste in the village of Glozhene, Teteven municipality, Lovech district. Here you are, Mr. Nedyalkov, to develop the issue..... you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u384	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madam President, I see you received medals with an F-16, you have such a brooch. [[Radio.]] Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The operation of the depot in the village of Glozhene, Tetevensko, was suspended by order of RIEW "Pleven," at the beginning of May 2016 and since then the disposal of all kinds of waste has been prohibited. Access was later restricted by placing a barrier and warning and ban tags. In addition to the prohibition of disposal of waste, it was found that entry into the depot is dangerous and harmful to health. The municipality, which could hardly cope with these measures - Teteven Municipality, adopted a decision imposing fines up to BGN 500. waste disposal, but lately, there have been more frequent cases of unauthorized waste disposal at the old dump site. It is known that the municipality has developed a project to close and reclamate the old depot in the village of Glozhene, which was submitted for funding to the Environmental Protection Management Company. About your letter with ex. No 02-00-41 of August, two years ago, concerning the re-cultivation of this depot, it is said that the project has received coordination under Decree No 26 of 1996 for the re-cultivation of damaged terrains and is to be submitted to the Management Board of the PUPOS for consideration and decision-making. We ask you to answer the following question: what measures has been taken and will the Ministry of Environment and Water take for the complete reconstruction of the landfill for non-hazardous waste in the land of the village of Glozhene, the municipality of Teteven? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u385	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Mr. Minister, you have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u386	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Naydenova, Mr. Nedyalkov, according to the reply sent by us to the letter, which you also quoted the project for closing and reclamation of the old landfill for solid municipal waste, the municipality of Teteven, Lovech district, is worth BGN 908,819,20. It was examined at a meeting held on 18 September 2017 by the Governing Council of the PPOOS with Protocol No 3 of 18 September 2018 and it was adopted that a decision should be granted to the Municipality of Teteven grants of BGN 547 303,26. with VAT for his reclamation. The amount represents the difference between the value of the project and the collateral due under art. 60 of the Waste Management Act and the Decision corresponds to the priorities adopted by the Management Board of the PPOOS to the financial assistance requested to be granted for the financing of the projects for the rehabilitation of landfills under the infringement procedure, No 2012 of 2082 for failure by the Republic of Bulgaria to comply with the requirements of Council Directive 1999/31/EC on the disposal of waste. As Teteven Municipality is not able to provide the necessary co-financing of the project, at a meeting held on 10 September 2018, by Protocol No 3 of the same date, the Management Board of the PPOOS decided to grant the Municipality of Teteven the district of Lovech, an interest-free loan amounting to 361 thousand. BGN 515,94. with the VAT necessary for the overall reclamation of the project "Closing and reclamation of the old landfill for solid municipal waste in the municipality of Teteven "Lovech" district. A procedure was conducted under the Public Procurement Act for the selection of a contractor of the Project. According to information we have from Teteven Municipality, a contractor has been selected to carry out the project, and, due to the presence of a complaint by one of the participants, the project is currently in VAS and it has scheduled a meeting for 17 September 2019, with which we hope the contractor will be finally approved. Depends on the court's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u387	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u388	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, you have really outlined the problem. It is good that the Ministry and the Environmental Management Organisation have found two ways to finance the site. One is to pay back the difference and the second one to provide a interest-free loan to the municipality, which can implement the project. However, my request to you is to complete the procedure properly and hopefully start the reclamation because the inhabitants of Glozhene have signalled us again about the unlawful disposal of various waste, even construction, of this old depot and its continued operation. It is a free landfill for the nearby waste disposal region, which we should not allow in relation to the European observations we have towards our country. My appeal to you is to all the subjects that I am familiar with, to have greater publicity. For example, at the Lovech District Center, an old depot was re-cultivated again. There is a huge amount of money invested in it compared to what is in the village of Glozhene, which was the municipal depot of Teteven. But from now on, the state of the depot, the money invested, and the other components that were there, the biological purification and so on, there is no publicity among the people of the district city. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u389	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u390	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nedyalkov, the Ministry has provided two thirds of the funds as a grant scheme. One third we found the opportunity to finance with a interest-free loan to facilitate the municipality, but it is her job to collect her dues under art. 60. She has to take care of her own financial receipts and, accordingly, obviously, she loses by putting on the unreacted depot. What I can guarantee you is that the moment the court concludes with a decision and there is an appointed contractor, we will not wait a minute and start financing this project, but it is still within the responsibility of the mayor of the municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u391	Thank you, dear Minister. The second question is from the MP Christian Vigenin concerning deepening problems in the operation of the Regional Waste Depot. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u392	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Minister, in 2015 two sites were put into operation implemented by Yambol Municipality under Operational Programme 548 thousand. £73.; the construction of Cell 1 and the accompanying infrastructure and facilities for a regional waste management system, the Yambol region, worth 9 million. 138,000. BGN 773. The problems arise as soon as it becomes clear that environmental pollution continues, but the municipality of Yambol refuses to comply with the regulations of the control bodies: RIOS Along with this, from the very beginning, the newly built cell 1 of the Regional Depot works continuously in an emergency condition, as the reclamation was carried out without isolation membrane along the bottom and without covering all leaking contaminated waters. As a result, it is necessary to constantly pump invade from the retrosion pool and transport it to the treatment plant in Sliven, for which the inhabitants of the five municipalities using the depots of Yambol, Sliven, Nova Zagora, Stralja and Tunja pay unexpectedly about a quarter of a million leva per year. No less worrying is the fact that the capacity of cell 1 set out in the complex permit is already exhausted and currently waste is being deposited there in practice illegally, i.e. without permission from the Ministry of Environment and Water. After establishing continued pollution of surface and groundwater, the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme "Environment" refuses final payment under the project of nearly 3 million. lv. The Municipality of Yambol appealed this refusal and later, at the beginning of 2017, without the problem being removed, an out-of-court agreement was reached As is clear from this brief description, in this case it is a poorly implemented project, inefficiently spent both European and national funds...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u393	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u394	I've got three minutes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u395	You have time, yes, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u396	...for a threat to the health of citizens, to continued pollution of nature, to systematic failure to comply with the regulations of the control bodies by the municipality of Yambol and, together with this, to silent refusal of the control authorities to fully perform their functions, to short-term planning and timely construction of additional capacity of the depot. Citizens and organizations have submitted a series of signals to the institutions without a particular result. In this regard, I would like to ask you: First, what prescriptions has Yambol Municipality implemented to allow the managing authority of the Operational Programme "Environment" to adopt an out-of-court agreement and to carry out the final payment of the project funds? Secondly, does the Ministry of Environment and Water consider taking measures to address the complex situation around the Regional Wasteyard and to protect citizens' interests? Third, insofar as there is clearly a set of crimes throughout the entire chain of activities, does the Ministry of Environment and Water intend to initiate an investigation to identify and punish those responsible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u397	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. For an answer, the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Neno Dimov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u398	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Vigenin, in connection with the completion of the project, by letter of 26 July 2016 of the Head of the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme "Environment" the beneficiary shall inform the Municipality of Yambol of the outcome of the completed verification process of the final request for funds. It is clear from this letter that the managing authority does not verify a cost of 2.9 million. lv. You said: about three, about that many, under the contract for the project. "Close and reclamation of the landfill for non-hazardous waste of the municipality of Yambol" due to a problem found in a final check on the site with the leakage of contaminated waters, which are not covered by the built drainage system and the guard ditches. Yambol Municipality is suing, as you yourself said, No 491/2016 in the Administrative Court of Stara Zagora, against the notification of the outcome of the final verification process. In view of the findings in the period 8 November 2016, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. On-the-spot checks have been carried out by the OCS Management Authority and recommendations have been made to provide information on the actions taken to eliminate the cause of drainage. By letter dated 28 December 2016, the Director-General of the Operational Programme sent for a decision on competence to the Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency and to the Director of the Basin Directorate of the East-West-World Region. In response from the Executive Director of the EEA, a letter was received on 17 January 2017 that the results of the protocols thus submitted did not exceed the established standards. By letter dated 20 December 2016, Swimming Directorate Plovdiv notified the Managing Authority of the Programme on the results of the monitoring and the assessments of the surface and groundwater situation in the area of the Regional Waste Management Centre. The results of the analyses carried out show an excess of individual emission limits which, in the circumstances described, namely a minimum flow or lack thereof, may be identified as accidental. In relation to the above, an out-of-court agreement has been drawn up between the mayor of Yambol Municipality and the management body of the OPE in the administrative case, under which the unverified costs of 2.9 million. lv. are subject to reimbursement of Yambol Municipality as the costs are actually incurred and eligible within the meaning of the Law. In connection with an alert received to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Environment and Waters from the Regional Inspectorate of Environment and Water, Stara Zagora informed the Managing Authority of the Operational Program The Regional Environmental and Water Inspection found that the operation of the Regional Depot was carried out in compliance with the requirements of Ordinance No 6/27.08.2013 on the conditions and requirements for the construction and operation of landfills and other waste recovery facilities and installations. The regional inspection shall ensure compliance with the conditions laid down by the Complex Authorisation, with constant control and on-the-spot checks carried out in relation to alerts and complaints concerning the operation of the depot from 2016. Only the Operational Programme "Environment" has carried out more than eight in this period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u399	Thank you, dear Minister. For two supplementary questions, Mr. Vigenin, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u400	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, some of the information you provided was actually contained in my question, you could have saved it. Some of the things you've shared are a little surprising to me, because calling the systematic release of infiltration into the retrosion pool is surprising to me. I don't know how they came to that conclusion. I've been to this depot myself. In fact, the reason for the constant collection of infiltration, as I said, is the poor implementation of the project, and that is precisely why the Regional Depot is constantly in emergency mode. You didn't say anything about the system having to pump water from the restension pool. I don't know what you call a closed cycle, but from there it is pumped and carried in Sliven, which is why the inhabitants of the five municipalities pay nearly 250 thousand. lv. annual, which is not foreseen in any way in the Project. That is, we see that a project has been implemented that is not sustainable. If you can, however, specify what the capacity of box 1 is, because according to the information I have available, its capacity set out in the complex permit is exceeded? That there is no dusting is no reason there, against the planned, to continue the storage of household waste. I believe that this should be especially of your attention as a minister, because also of the chronology you have listed, I have the feeling that an effort has been made to achieve results that will enable this out-of-court agreement. However, the problems continue and the opinions that come from the various institutions that you mentioned cannot convince citizens that there are no problems with the depot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u401	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u402	Dear Mr. Vigenin, let me start with this. As a result of your question, I will do a slightly more serious review, regardless of the answer I am giving at the moment, and despite the fact that it is said that the complex permit is not violated. The volume is part of the complex permit. The very fact that a representative from the area asks me so many such questions means that there should be an additional check. Even though eight checks have been carried out by the managing authority in the last three years, even though practically continuous control has been made by RIEW Stara Zagora, one more check will be carried out. This is the information that I have, and I put it in the first part of the answer. The only thing I can say, and I'll try to keep you posted before you call me here one more time, what another check has done. This is at this time the complex permit works and is respected is the official information. What does a closed cycle mean? You caught me off guard a little bit. I'm not a technical person and I don't know. I guess it's something that's being used on the ground, but I'll see what this closed loop is... might be interesting for both of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u403	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Vigenin, come in for treatment.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u404	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! I am aware that this question and the answers to elements of these are quite technical and perhaps for the wider audience do not speak anything, and for people like us who are not specialists to this extent. As a MP from the region and you as a minister, we have to go into details of such problems. I thank you for your commitment to more closely follow the situation with the regional depot. You may recall that I identified the problems of a hearing in the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. I believe that this question today to a greater extent draws the attention of both yours and the institutions and the people of the region to this problem. I am counting on you personally to engage, because this is an ulcer that has been troubling citizens in the area for quite some time now, and it is an issue that cannot continue to exist in this way, that is, simply prolonging an agony. We need to see what concrete measures can be taken to compensate for the shortcomings of the project itself. I hope that in the nearest time you will provide a little more detailed information on this issue and, of course, if necessary, we will continue our dialogue here in Parliament, or in the region, if necessary. Again, citizens are worried about what's happening around the depot. The decisions are necessary and I think that a visit on site at the depot, if you have not done so, will give you a slightly clearer idea, including a meeting with citizens who are dealing with this problem, will give you a clearer idea of the real problems, as the dry information given to you by the institutions may sometimes be misleading to the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u405	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. We thank Minister Neno Dimov for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to questions to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Mrs. Desislava Taneva. The first question is from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova on control of the implementation of tied support schemes in the sector. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u406	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, my question relates to the need to strengthen control in relation to tied support to sensitive sectors, including the fruit and vegetables sector. This was a good undertaking, a good policy in the new common agricultural policy, which enabled farmers who are engaged and investing in this sector to receive additional resources for production that they have produced and implemented on the market. At the same time, the so-called fake farmers, who are trying in every way to obtain subsidies, especially in the sector. It is impressive that since 2016 and the 2018 data I have indicate, for example, that the potato areas have increased 2.2 times, with carrots of 3.6 times, and the last hit for those who use funds is melons, and there the area is increased within one year by 76%. Against the backdrop of the increase in areas, which is not directly related to the fact that supply is increasing and on the market the Bulgarian production is in larger quantities, you have no other way than with orders each year to set the rates for tied support. For example, for 2018, they are less than 2017, on this basis, which is an objective basis, i.e. the areas requested. My question to you is: what measures will the Ministry take to properly take account of the production of fruit and vegetables in the tied support for 2019 and, accordingly, will the Ministry of Agriculture take any action to facilitate the access of Bulgarian fruit and vegetables in the markets in the country and to increase the presence of Bulgarian production in 2019?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u407	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u408	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Professor Bachvarova, of course, I agree with you that the tied support is a very good support for sensitive and underfunded sectors and, by the way, they have allowed us to support these proceedings in a sensitive way compared to 2015, while maintaining the levels in the last three years. Before answering the question, or perhaps afterwards, I would like to give you data on the requested areas from 2015 to 2019, and, again, there are relatively similar areas in the last three years to dispel the doubts that the crops that you have listed, such as potatoes, melons, are crops for making subsidies. The truth is that in 2015 the total area requested as hectares for vegetables is 13 302 hectares. For 2019 the requested areas are 31 342 hectares. This answers the question of how it has affected the application of the 2015 tied support. For 2018, these areas were 33,498 hectares, even more. In 2017, there were 29 547 hectares. It can be said that in the last three years there has been a sustainable level of requested areas. From our analysis, both about fruits and vegetables, there is a instability that varies within about 3,000 hectares, which is moved to different groups............................................................................................. Especially for the potatoes we have a reduction compared to the previous year. [[Reply from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova.]] Yes, for 2019 compared to 2018. For melons is the same, we have a 2019 reduction compared to 2018, although minus 4% only, and for potatoes this percentage is negative 33%. So we can't in any way talk about these two cultures being some kind of drain. Once again, if the requested areas 2019 are 31 342 hectares and the fruit is 33 477 hectares, out of all these areas only 10% of them or about 3000 hectares we have found that they migrate to the different crops, which may be assumed to be based on the level of specific support that comes from the previous season. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] For example, this year is about Polish tomatoes. With regard to this migration, which implies a possible direction towards the given culture, not because of culture, as a kind of production and yield, but because of the amount of subsidy, we have taken additional measures this year, which will apply in order to give precisely the subsidy to farmers, for the purposes of competitiveness and not for the purpose of absorption of funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u409	The weather, Mrs. Taneva. Thank you. A line? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u410	Thank you. Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, the focus was on control and for 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u411	My time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u412	I have information about 2018, which I can compare. I would like to draw your attention to the informational arrays of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests. In the operational information, for example, for 2018, the Ministry of Agriculture's cropd areas of potatoes are 103 000 acres and at the same time tied support potatoes Similarly, 20 000 melons are backed up, 15 000 is the Ministry's operational information. In cherries, 80,000 are harvested areas, now 99 520. That is, there is some gap between what real areas are and what is reported in the tied support, these are informational arrays in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests. My other question to you is: Is it sufficient for the Fund of Agriculture only to carry out this control, which can increase the checks, but does it not need to include the other agencies at the Ministry of Education, which is related to whether the seed potatoes are actually consumed in production, the Food Agency, in order to be able to actually carry out the controls, and those who actually work on the ground, which they actually produce, not to be harmed by those who use funds, because the costs per unit of area are the lowest, and the subsidies are the highest. It turned out for melons, for example, this year that this is the problem. The cost of production is none, but you see, the subsidies are much higher and that is where they are going in the search for the possibility to grow these products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u413	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Madam Minister, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u414	Dear Professor Bachvarova, I did not reply, but specifically for the measures I can tell you what we have undertaken for this year, even the checks are in progress because of the time and because of this I can tell you what the data for 2019 are for declared areas and see that both potatoes and melons have decreased. These data on requested areas from the last four years have been uploaded to the Ministry of Agriculture website. The control that we are going to increase is with regard to the checks that they will become from 5% last year to 20% in 2019. The Paying Agency is scheduled to do about 6,000 checks. Again, in order to increase control, it is envisaged that, on the basis of my order, additional on-the-spot checks should be carried out on applicants for fruit and vegetables schemes based on an analysis of the data on applications submitted in the 2019 campaign and specific identified risk criteria. The purpose of the checks is to establish the actual production and recovery of the fruit and vegetables requested for support. Candidates for direct payments included in the sample for additional checks will be examined jointly by ODZ experts and municipal agriculture services and the Technical Inspectorate of the Fund. On-the-spot checks are also provided for whether permanent crops have begun fertility and whether there are none that have already dried out outside fertility. This implies increased control by the Ministry through a significantly higher number of inspections. With regard to the discrepancy of data that you are quoting, I can list, because for agrostatistics, the methods of collecting information are statistical methods, where is the gap, such as harvested areas and requested areas. Harvested areas for 2018 are according to agrostatistics for mature cromid onions are 3675 hectares and the requested areas are 3696 hectares. So we have cropped areas of about 20 hectares less. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Twenty hectares less about this gap you're talking about. Other crops where this discrepancy is present, namely harvested areas, to be less than requested. These are the cherry "1184 hectares of agrostatistics" for 2018 at 1212 hectares. That's what these checks are for. In these discrepancies, they are specifically identified beneficiaries, which will be checked on the ground. In raspberry there are harvested areas 2102 at 2381 hectares. In agrostatistics for plums we have 7357 hectares and requested areas for 2018. "8315." These are the differences in these cultures and they will be checked on the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u415	Thank you, dear Minister. There is a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova on the allocation of the budget of the Agricultural Academy between the institutes for 2019. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u416	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, my question is related to the functioning and operation of the Agricultural Academy and specifically about how the budget is allocated for 2019. On 1 April 2018, the Agricultural Academy Act, which was given financial independence and the possibility of autonomy of the budget, was amended. At the same time, some structural changes were made, but the fact remains that the Management Board of the Agricultural Academy distributes the budget and, accordingly, by decision of the Governing Council, it is made available to the institutes. For 2019 the budget is 23,5 million. I must tell you that I was very surprised personally when I saw the mechanism and the way the budget was allocated. It turns out that in some of the institutes, 70% of them, not only do they not have subsidies, but in the case of a subsidy due to carry out scientific and experimental activities, it is reduced by the so-called total income from the material assets used. Understand that this is agricultural land provided to the institutes, valued in some form with an active rent and therefore what is obtained as income from the rent, and why it is allocated to Central Governance or goes to institutes that do not have arable land. This is the first time I've encountered such a phenomenon in the distribution of the budget of the Agricultural Academy. My question to you is: were you able to see exactly how and how this decision was made? Because if there is any problem in the middle or end of the year with regard to underfinancing of scientific projects, it will be a consequence of the fact that in March an allocation is adopted, where institutes that work, we will require them to repay much more money, not to have a subsidy for science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u417	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. For your answer, Madam Minister, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u418	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Professor Bachvarova, according to art. 1 of the Agricultural Academy Act The Academy is a national autonomous budgetary organisation to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests and draw up, implement and account for a budget as part of the consolidated fiscal programme under art. 13, para. 4 of the Public Finance Act. The management bodies of the Academy according to art. 3 of the Agricultural Academy Act are Chairman and Management Board, the Council consists of President and eight members. The Chairman of the Academy is also Chairman of the Management Board. By order of 28 June 2018, the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry was appointed on a proposal from the Chairman of the Management Board. In accordance with art. 18, p. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Agricultural Academy The Management Board, on a proposal from the President, shall establish principles for the allocation of the budget of the Academy and its structural units. With art. 23 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 was established transfer of the Agricultural Academy through the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry of 25 million. 11,000. 500 leva. At its meeting on 18 April 2019 the Management Board of the Academy decided on the principles of the allocation of transfers from the state budget between the Structural Units of the Academy. On the basis of established principles, an internal transfer was assigned to each structural unit. The transfer allocation principles are as follows: Firstly, the number of scientific staff of the institutes and centres of professors, professors, chief assistants, assistants is the basis for determining the internal transfer. Secondly, for each institute centre, a coefficient is set for technical staff reflecting the specifics of work. When determining the individual coefficient, account is taken of the activities of the Institute of Scientific, Scientific and Applied, Experimental, Innovative or Educational; the sector in which the activity is developed........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This coefficient adjusts the total number of scientific compositions. The subsidy for one employee is calculated and multiplied by the adjusted number of scientific staff. Third, the total income resulting from the use of tangible assets is deducted from the transfer received for each Institute, which represents for 2019 the arable land multiplied by the average rental price of the land in the region and received the transfer for 2019 for each institute. Fourth, an operating reserve of 3 million has been set aside. BGN to be used by decision of the management of the Agricultural Academy or the Management Board for urgent repairs, purchase of fixed assets and other expenses. This is the body that can effectively decide on the transfer and determine the criteria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u419	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u420	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, with this point I wanted to draw attention to the fact that, firstly, the Agricultural Academy is at the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests. Secondly, such arbitrariness for me, where working institutes are being sanctioned and do not receive funds for scientific activity, seems to me to be in the hypothesis in which we are writing them off because these are 22 institutes that have to pay sums of central government. Apart from that, in one of your answers, where I ask you the question: "What is the average salary in Central government and you say BGN 1260, and with this average salary we have as many people, as many departments and at the same time the average salary in the institutes is BGN 860. The next question is about the state enterprise. The State enterprise under Law should have a contract with the institutes because it must carry out scientific, experimental, production and any other activity. Such contracts have not been concluded, which means that this state enterprise is doomed to bankruptcy. My request is to really pay attention to the way the subsidy is allocated, because when it is not fair, when it creates prerequisites for well-functioning structures to go to the bottom in terms of their revenues, obligations and work, it will create, I suppose, problems for you, regardless of the autonomy that is guaranteed, and the revenues that make it possible for the institutions to realize the 2000 BGN. revenue and get 110% subsidy. Here, too, over the costs they need. There's some sort of subjectiveism that I don't understand and creates tension in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u421	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u422	Mrs. Chairman! Professor Bachvarova, you yourself said that the Agricultural Academy is an autonomous organization. I have explained in detail, including the controversial criterion for you, that this has been voted on and adopted by the Governing Council. The only thing I can do and will do is to draw attention to the new President for these criteria and to the belief that these are fair criteria for the allocation of the budget. I hope it can be justified.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u423	Thank you, dear Minister. A question from the MP Rumen Georgiev on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for the cultivation of aromatic and medicinal plants. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u424	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Bulgaria is gifted with unique nature. There's no such combination of soil, sun and water anywhere. With regard to biodiversity, our country is in one of the first places in the world. Over 4100 higher plants can be seen in Bulgaria, of which more than 750 are medicinal and 250 species of these plants are used intensively in official and folk medicine. In this respect, we can compete with countries such as India and China, whose territory is many times greater than ours. In 2018, European statistics noted that Bulgaria comes first in terms of the aromatic and medicinal plants grown. A total of 81,000 tonnes of herbs have been obtained in Bulgaria, which is almost double compared to the second largest producer in the European Union, Poland, where 44,000 tonnes have been obtained. Spain is in third place with 32,000 tons of extracted plants. The main part of the production of herbalists and herbalists goes to export, with major markets being the countries of the European Union, but there is exports to the US and Latin America, unfortunately, as a primary product, raw material without added value without being processed in Bulgaria. The herbal market in Bulgaria can take on 15 - 20% of the production and collection of aromatic plants. In our country are mainly cultivated species such as lavender, matte, mint, spike, coriander, white thorn. By variety, cultivated herbs are less in number than the wildlings that gather, but by volume they are equal. With the greatest economic significance among wild species have 100 plants that are collected from nature according to established rules. Dear Minister, my question to you is: what is the specific policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for the cultivation of aromatic and medicinal plants in Bulgaria? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u425	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Georgiev, you have told in detail about biodiversity in Bulgaria, about wealth and species diversity. I suppose your question concerns the cultivated aromatic medicinal plants. In this sense, I can say that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry is monitoring six species of cultivated aromatic and medicinal plants. It's a rose, lavender, uterine, coriander, fennel, white thorn. Other aromatic and medical include mint, valeriana, anise, sage, spike, chamomile, medical blush, marigold and others. The areas, average yields and the production of certain aromatic and medical plants for 2018 are as follows: the rose-to-air area of 4670 hectares, the lavender of 11 881 hectares, the matochina of 2097 hectares, the gorge of 10 695 hectares, the grating of 4501 hectares, the white thorn of 2637 hectares, other aromatic and medical Taking into account the soil and climatic conditions of the different regions, the traditions among the population and market demand, a conditional zoning was made for the cultivation of herbs in Bulgaria. Areas with traditions in the breeding of the different species are as follows: for the oil rose these are the rose producing regions of Kazanlushki, Karlovski, Strelchanski, Greenkovtsi and Chirpanski; for the lavender of Targovishte, Burgas, Blagoevgrad, Montana, Plovdiv, Stara Zagora, Varna, Dobrich, Ruse, Shumen. I will refrain from further enumeration as I am running out of time. What is the support of these sectors? As is known, the main instrument for supporting the various sectors in agriculture is support under the Rural Programme. Farmers growing essential-oil and medical crops have the opportunity to benefit from support, a wider range of measures and sub-measures included in the Rural Development Programme in this programming period, such as sub-measure 4.1.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Through the various measures and sub-measures of the Programme, farmers may receive support for the development of their farms, as well as investments to modernise farms, including funding for the creation of multiannual essential-fat crops. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Let me just give you a statistic. The main investment sub-measure 4.1 approved 128 projects related to the cultivation of essential-oil crops with the amount of approved financial assistance of 43,9 million. lv. There is also a sub-measure 6.3 project. I'll give you further information at the next time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u426	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u427	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The issue I raise from the parliamentary platform is to see that this is an agricultural sector with huge potential for development in Bulgaria. Clean food, herbs, climate and nature is Bulgaria's advantage over other countries in Europe and outside Europe, especially after climate change and the problem of global warming. I very much hope that, in the national strategic plan that is being prepared in connection with the new common agricultural policy, this will find meaning, as I think the state in the face of the Ministry of Agriculture must have a more aggressive policy in this regard. And I'm going to give some information about the size of the global healing herb business. In 2018 it was about 200 billion euros and every year it increases and these are only and only sales of concentrates of medicinal herbs, which in Bulgaria grow everywhere and are grown, of course, and cultivated. At the same time, the global market for innovative medicines in 2018 was around 1.4 trillion or 1400 billion euros in manufacturing medicines Bulgaria was proud of before 1989. I'll give just one example. Notice, the Netherlands has three times smaller agricultural area than Bulgaria, but at the same time produces so many agricultural products that it manages to export for 100 billion euros per year. What should we pay attention to in this regard? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Madam President. In conclusion, to validate our country as a paradise for the useful plants and the utilisation of the resources we have, several are the main steps we need to take. Three sentences. The most important thing is to improve the quality of basic products by offering them not only primaryly processed but also with high added value, which will lead to much higher income per sector. It is also important to develop the niche with organic production, which has a future throughout the world. Just by betting on pure production and gathering, our country can remain a leader in this area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u428	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. We move on to the next question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Ivanov about the places for storage of waste water and unregulated discharge of pig waste water in the village of Sunny, Aksakovo municipality, Varna region. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u429	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, our question has been provoked by a number of questions previously asked in writing concerning not only this object but also with others, from which answers have been received a lot of disagreements, in relation to the capacity of the establishment, the manure masses emitted, but specifically for this object I will ask the questions directly. Is the reduced amount of liquid manure fraction of the pig complex with a capacity of 39,900 pigs between 5 June 2018 and 5 June 2019 above the partially incomplete volumes of the seven of the 12 land-slope lagoons in the collection tanks and waste water baths, pig housing? What is the method by which the presence of 40,000 cubic metres of liquid fraction of manure in the total 12 land-fill lagoons was found in the inspection carried out on 8 June 2018 by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and what is the number of assisted sows and pigs for fattening in the State aid scheme, also known as swine welfare, between 1 January 2018 and 31 December 2018? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u430	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. For an answer, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u431	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Stoilov and Mr. Ivanov! In relation to your question, the Regional Food Safety Directorate Varna, on 15 July, carried out a inspection of a pig complex in the village of Sunny, which found the following: Point one: the amount of waste water generated from the activity of the pig complex in the one-year period quoted by you is about 80 thousand cubic metres. In recent years, the joint stock company, which owns the pig complex, has taken measures to reduce the amount of waste water produced, namely: completely rained from the production waste water, the washing of the premises is carried out entirely with waterworks after the end of each production group. The system for watering animals has been changed with a water-saving one. The water supply network has been completely replaced. The actions of the guide of the pig complex have led to the cessation of waste water leak after lagoons. In May 2018, a permanent interruption was carried out by concreteising the channel used to take waste water to the Haramiyska gorge in the section between the fifth and sixth lagoons. On the canal before the point of discharge in the Haramia Dere are additionally built in two places earth-scathed dams. During the period quoted by you, there has been no evidence of breach of the integrity of the quoted dams, concrete and land-fills. During the same period, it was not established by the inspection carried out by the competent authorities that the discharge of uncleaned waste water in the Haramia Dere was carried out in accordance with the consolidated protocols of the RIEW Varna. In practice, part of the waste water after mechanical purification through two separators and stay in the lagoons is infiltrated and leaked into the sand base and another, smaller part, evaporated. This was established and reported in RIEW Varna, and the Ministry of Environment and Waters after an expert evaluation was prepared in September 2017 for monitoring, geological and hydrogeological characteristics of the pig lagoon area in the village of Sunny. In order to address the waste water problem, the public limited liability company has prepared an investment programme, submitted the necessary information in RIEW Varna, the Environmental and MoEW Executive Agency and received a complex permit No 244 of 2008, updated by Commission Decision No 2_302 of 15 February 2017 pursuant to Directive 2010/75 of the European Parliament and of the Council, gives a delay until February 2020 to existing pig complexes to be brought into line with the requirements and best available techniques. The company owning the pig complex is committed by the end of 2020 to build a new sewage treatment plant and comply with national and European environmental requirements. As of mid-August 2019, the new mechanical footage of the new waste water treatment plant will be tested, which will remove about 80% of the unsoluble substances. After the construction of the waste water treatment plant at the end of 2010, the use of lagoons which are old and depreciated facilities will be terminated. Your second question for each of the 12 Earth-possible lagoons has been removed approximate dimensions by measuring. A length, width and height measurement for the calculation of free volume has been carried out. The difference between our famous full volume of 93,000 cubic meters and an established free volume of 53,000 cubic meters gives approximate information about an available volume of 40,000 cubic meters. Just one more number I was asked about. For the period 1 January, 31 December 2018 under a State aid scheme, aid for the implementation of voluntary animal welfare commitments, the number of assisted sows and fattening pigs reared by the public limited liability company amounts to 2998 and 74950 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u432	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u433	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, I am pleased with the answer.............................. and........................................................... I sincerely hope that the measures taken by the owners of the pig complex are real. Even one of the additional questions was related precisely to the Harmanlian Dere and whether an unauthorised discharge of it was found in the Beloslav Lake further. It's really good if this discharge is melted through concrete, like you said. Only one supplementary question: has the Ministry been informed of the fact that land-fill lagoons used to store manure mass are not included in the permit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u434	We don't have that information. We're not the competent authority.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u435	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. And the last issue of today's parliamentary control: a question by Georgi Stoilov and Svetla Bachvarova concerning a delay in examining applications under measures and submeasures of the Rural Development Programme 2014 - 2020. Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u436	Madam President, Madam Secretary! This is a topic that is quite delicate and disturbing for a large part of society. I mean, in a lot of the measures and sub-measures that are under the RDP 2014 - 2020 - the adopted adoptions are never... The receptions have been completed, but there are no approved contracts and no payments. It is disturbing, for example, by 4.2, which ended May 2018, there is a delay of more than one year. On 6.4 is also still at the stage of preliminary assessment, unallocated for administrative, delay over 6 months and is expected to go also year. This is also in 4.1, 6.4, 6.1, which is quite known as the Young Farmer. There have been since March 2018, for over a year and a half people have not received contracts, there are approvals, but so it stands in the system that they can verify, but there is no evidence that these contracts will be concluded at all. This, of course, subsequently leads to a failure to fulfil the employee-related commitments laid down in the business plans with the purchase of equipment. If this contract is late, as you know, there will be additional anexes, aggravations for all sides of the chain. Our question is therefore, what timely actions and measures will the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry take to improve the work of the State Fund................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u437	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. For an answer, Madam Minister. The final answer to this parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u438	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Stoilov! With regard to the question raised regarding the delay in examining the application for the measures of the Rural Programme, I would like to assure you that the processing of the project proposals on the adoptions carried out by the Programme is a key priority for the Ministry and the State Fund of Agriculture, to which all efforts are directed and measures have been taken to catch up on the deadlines. You're right, there's a significant delay. This, by the way, was one of my first tasks when I entered the Ministry to take appropriate catch-up measures, it cannot catch up, but to complete the receptions. One of the main reasons for the delay is the administrative reform carried out for the introduction of electronic application and management of the projects under the programme through ISU and the transition of the Rural Development Programme to the implementation of the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act. As a result of the reform, deep changes in the mechanisms of implementation of the Programme have taken place. The implementation of the new information system and the implementation of the LESSIF have led to a change in the main organizational processes and to the development of entirely new internal rules of the Fund for the approval of project proposals. These amendments lead to delays in the processing of projects and require new accreditation of the procedural rules for evaluation and framing of projects. It was the accreditations of the individual procedures that were the most common reason for the delayed receptions and the efforts at the beginning were directed precisely at these accreditations. The accreditation of the rules is a process that takes time to ensure compliance with European regulations. In order to overcome the accumulated delay, an Action Plan, together with the Fund, shall be drawn up with the necessary measures and actions and set deadlines for their implementation. One of the main measures in the Plan is aimed at developing new procedural rules on administrative compliance and eligibility for the technical and financial assessment of the project and obtaining the necessary accreditation for them. These actions have been successfully finalised in the past two months and within the deadlines set for them. At present, the main sub-measures of the initial adoptions have developed and accredited procedures in particular for the approval of the project proposals. That is to say, this will allow the Fund to continue working and carry out an overall assessment of the projects that have been submitted. In addition, on the basis of the information received from the State Fund, a system for regular monitoring of the implementation of the Programme has been established. On a monthly basis, progress has been made in the processing of project proposals. We are working in practice on the plan with the State Fund of Agriculture and the Managing Authority of the Rural Development Programme with regard to the completion of individual measures. If there is an interest in a specific measure, I can also tell what deadlines we have planned their completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u439	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. Here's a line, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u440	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! The question with my colleague was really dictated by the unknown, which has many beneficiaries involved in agreeing on projects that may have been delayed for a year, a year and a half. One problem is that there is not enough information and there is no possibility of getting it, that is, what is the specific reason. You say about accreditation and Isun, these are things that were known to have problems, respectively one of the reasons for the delay in the negotiation, but this is still the reality. ISUN is at the heart of the next receptions and the next contract. The mid-term evaluation of the Rural Development Programme shows by the end of 31 December 2018 that 662 million were paid. EUR in the case of a total budget of 2.9 billion Euros. Again in the information I read, at the end of August, the European Commission, based on this mid-term assessment, will announce which of the objectives of the Programme have not been achieved. Do you have information and your analysis of which of the objectives of the Programme have not been achieved and how the funds will be managed from this point of view in terms of being transferred to measures that need Bulgarian agriculture and be used in a way so that in the programming period those that are given to us as an opportunity for development of agriculture will be used as far as possible? Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u441	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u442	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Professor Bachvarova, undoubtedly part of the analysis of my coming into office now in terms of delayed admissions was the management of the funds under the Rural Development Programme so that it has a really maximum effect on it. As I avoid using the word 'adventure', we should certainly not consider in this programming period at all that there would be a problem other than administrative failures, as the interest in the Programme and the open admissions is many times higher than the available budget. Well, one of the big problems is that in individual receptions there is satisfaction within 25% of the talking about private beneficiaries, in public satisfaction is slightly higher, but in practice the frustration of project proposals is significantly high. There are measures that have not been opened so far, while others are in the process of closure. We have done such an initial analysis and have communicated exclusively with the industry a certain shift of these budgets, one of which is on the unopened second adoption of measure 4.2. The budget that we can transfer could have satisfied 89 more projects under the line. For this adoption under measure 4.2, our deadline to complete it so that we can increase the released budget is the end of August. Under measure 4.1.2, we have completed accreditations there and put in our work plan a deadline by the end of September. Once again, only if there's interest would I answer specifically for every reception, because I can't introduce you. For each measure we have a specific deadline, and the first stage was to end the accreditations. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I would very much like to say about measure 10 and measure 11. We have also communicated this with the branch organizations, with which we passed two consultative councils on two, one was for the general state and management of the Programme and policies, and the second was in urgent order on the occasion of the tied support and schemes. You are well aware that from August 1st, it is time to notify if there are any changes. We have also communicated for measure 10 the possibility and desire and in practice the actions we will take for the sixth year on commitments and for measure 11 the organic production that was most interesting. For measure 10 there were even residual budgets, while for measure 11 there is very little shortage, which from the adjustments would actually be compensated, but there the issue is with the audit that awaits us at the end of November. If it is successful, by measures that are not open, but are to achieve the same goals, we have found a resource to transfer. We communicate in advance, and if we are successful with audits, we will also transfer, according to our policies, to support sensitive sectors of funding, both small and medium-sized farms and to consult in the industry, we would budget them for next year. We have, I would say, a very clear idea of where we would move funds under the conditions of some implementations of the measures at the time and of the audit waiting for us at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-31.u443	Thank you, dear Minister. Let us thank Minister Taneva. Colleagues, thank you, too. Have a nice vacation! I expect you with many positive emotions ready to work! Next meeting on 4 September 2019 at 9.00 We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
