ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[(Radio.) Noise and lines.)]] There will be a vote, colleagues, you will be able to register. Message: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that it has, by its order, authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of aircraft from the Air-space Forces of the Russian Federation to visit a delegation of the Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation in the Republic of Serbia from 25 to 28 November 2019 inclusive. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the competent state authorities have been notified. The notification was received on 25 October 2019 with entry number 903-09-77 and was submitted to the Defence Committee. We're moving to point one for today: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MINISTERITY OF INTERNAL WORKS. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2019. Mr. Nunev, would you like to brief us on the Internal Security and Public Order Report?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber of Senior Commissioner Asen Ignatov.. Deputy Director of the General Directorate of Fire Safety and Protection of the Population.. Rositsa Grudeva Director of the Directorate of Legal Activity....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u3	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 180 MPs: 172, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u4	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 902-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2019. At its regular meeting on 13 November 2019, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 902-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Internal Affairs: Mladen Marinov Minister, Milko Berner Deputy Minister, Rositsa Grudeva Director of the Directorate of Legal Regulatory Activity, Petar Toshkov General Legal Consultant in the Department of Regional Affairs and Law of the European Union. On behalf of the importer The bill was presented by Mr. Mladen Marinov. In his statement he noted that the main objective of the Bill was to carry out reforms aimed at improving the effectiveness in the activities of the Ministry of Interior, clarifying texts and removing imperfections in separate provisions of the Ministry of Interior Act, as well as amendments and additions to other laws relating to the functional competence of the Ministry of Interior. The project proposes improving the organisation of structures in the Ministry of Interior, which carry out activities related to the prevention and crossing of terrorist activities, the release of hostages, the detention or disposal of particularly dangerous criminals, the neutralising of explosives and devices, the protection of public order, the carrying out of special goods. In this regard, it is envisaged the establishment of a new Directorate General (Gendarmeria), special operations and the fight against terrorism, to be a legal entity. Its composition should include the former Specialized Anti-Terrorism Squad and the Directorate of Gendarmerie. This will achieve better resource management and material security in compliance with the principles of hierarchicity and subordination. It has been reported that forensic evidence is essential in the fight against crime. Provisions are provided for relating to the implementation of expert criminological activities, the implementation of new methodologies based on modern scientific methods and approaches, improving the quality of the expertise and analyses carried out by the Research Institute of Forensics. It is envisaged that the service relationships of some of the employees carrying out the expert-criminal activity will be governed by the Act on the Ministry of Interior, not by the Law on the Civil Service Officer. This is also the proposal for the employees of the Institute of Psychology. Requirements are provided for specialized equipment, facilities and personal protective equipment used by fire safety and population protection authorities, and an explicit legal basis has been created for issuing a sub-legal act to provide specific standards for the use of equipment and means. The Centre for Vocational Training of the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population is also regulated, thus fulfilling the requirements of the Law on Vocational Education and Training and creating an opportunity for obtaining the necessary accreditations. It is also envisaged that the employees of the Directorate of the Inspectorate should be governed by the Law on the Civil Serviceman, which corresponds to their activities. Another objective of the Bill is to prevent the appointment of persons to a public service in the case of established dependence or abuse of drugs and analogues, and to refuse to be tested. There is also a provision for temporary removal of an employee who appears to be working in a state which can be assumed to be following the use of a drug substance. The Social Partnership Council is intended to include serious and representative trade unions with the possibility of ensuring the implementation of consensus decisions and sustainability of the arrangements. The amendment of the Ministry of Interior Act will create a legal framework for issuing replacement documents in cases of imposition or confirmation of a measure of procedural coercion. With the Bill, regulations in other laws are also being refined. An amendment to the Disaster Protection Act will be envisaged to achieve the establishment of an effective system for documenting the impact of disasters and better tracking of the Crisis Risk Reduction Framework by Sendai, as well as of the National Disaster Risk Reduction Strategy 2018, adopted by Decision No 505 of the Council of Ministers of 2018. The amendments to the Law on Construction of the Area will create the necessary prerequisites for the realization of administrative criminal liability for violations committed. The adoption of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior and the amendments to other laws does not lead to the need to provide additional funds. On behalf of the employees working under the contract in the Ministry of Interior of the CNBC, Hristo Hristov took note of the problems related to the free food, the inability of employees to replace an absent government official and others. Members of the National Assembly Ivan Ivanov, Krasimir Yankov, Manoil Manev and Krasimir Tsipov took part in the discussion. Issues related to the appropriateness and effectiveness of the establishment of the General Directorate for Gendarmerie, special operations and the fight against terrorism have been raised, with the interpretation of the used expression of independence and abuse of narcotics and others. On the basis of the discussion held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 12 votes for the House of Internal Affairs, without the opposition, and 4 votes for the National Assembly, abstention, proposed that the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 902-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. Mr. Ademov, you are welcome to present the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 902-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2019. The Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 27 November 2019 examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior. The meeting was attended by Mladen Marinov, Minister of Interior, Mihail Zlatanov, Head of the political cabinet, Rositsa Grudeva, Director of the Legal Activity Directorate, and other experts from the Ministry of Interior. The bill was presented by Minister Mladen Marinov. The bill proposes reforms that will improve the effectiveness of the Ministry of Interior's activities. In relation to the changed activities and structures, it is proposed that the service activities of some of the employees of the National Institute of Criminal Studies (former Research Institute of Criminal Studies), the Institute of Psychology and the Center for Vocational Training in the Directorate General for Fire Safety and Population Protection. It is envisaged that the status of the employees of the Directorate of the Ministry of Interior should be governed by the Law on the Civil Service Officer, not by the terms and conditions of the Act on the Ministry of Interior. Such changes will also be made with regard to the employees of the newly established General Directorate...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... According to importers, social rights and benefits of employees in the Ministry of Interior are maintained. For example, the rank assigned under the Civil Service Act is maintained, not a new period of testing is under way, but the one leaked to the transformation of structures is respected. Also, unused leave under the Civil Service Act is maintained. The rights of employees of existing service relationships under the order of the Ministry of Interior are guaranteed by the proposals. Guarantees have also been created for the work and work rendered under the Ministry of Interior Act, such as the employees of the National Institute of Criminalism and the Institute of Psychology, whose interests are not converted into service under the Law on the Ministry of Interior, retain their interests under the Law on State Officer and the Labour Code, and those who worked in the Specialized Counterterrorist Unit and the Directorate of Gendarmerie, shall be governed by the Law on State Officer and the Labour Code as official and labour force in the Directorate General for Railways, Special Operations and Counter Terrorism. The draft detailed arrangements are made for the transformation of civil servants' service to the Directorate of the Ministry of Interior's Inspectorate in service under the Civil Service Act. It is intended to determine an individual remuneration not lower than that fixed at the date of entry into force of the bill under consideration, not to apply for the appointment of a public service, not to conduct a competition and compulsory training, re-ordering to be without a test period, respectively to recognise the expiry date of the test period, to respect service experience with the same body of appointment and work in the same administration within the meaning of the Civil Service Act, to retain unused leave and the right to compensation for termination of service relationships and others. State officials of the Ministry of Interior, whose status is governed by the Law on the Civil Service Officer, were granted the right to free medical care at the Medical Institute of the Ministry of Interior and the right to use the rest of the Ministry of Interior facilities under identical conditions with other employees of the Ministry of Interior. In the reasons for the bill, importers have recorded that there is a need to create conditions for proportionality and balance of participants in social dialogue. In this regard, the Social Partnership Council of the Ministry of Interior will include serious and representative trade union organisations with opportunities to ensure that decisions and sustainability of the arrangements reached by consensus, in view of which legal requirements should be laid down for trade unions to participate in this Council. A partial preliminary assessment of the impact of the Bill has been applied to the Bill. A reference has been applied by the Ministry of Justice according to art. 28, para. 3 of the Law on Legislative Acts on the Compliance of the Draft Law with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR) and the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR). According to the reference, the proposed bill does not create any legal prerequisites for conflicting with the provisions of the ECHR and the practice of the ECHR. A reference has also been applied to reflect the opinions received after the public consultation of the Bill. The Commission received the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. It expresses support for the Bill. The discussion was attended by the MPs Nadia Klisurska, Georgi Gokov, Svetlana Angelova, Kalin Popovski and Hassan Ademov. The MPs focused mainly on preserving the rights and benefits of those working in the Ministry's system. Questions have been asked regarding the financial resources that will be needed to carry out this reform, with the guarantees that the legal texts give to respect for the rights of those working in the system and their ability to associate and participate in social dialogue and partnership. In response, Minister Mladenov expressed his belief that while working on three types of relationships, the employees in the structures of the Ministry will maintain their professionalism and expertise. The most important thing in his view is that relationships will be transformed and will not end, and that the preservation of employees' rights is guaranteed. Following the conclusion of the discussion and the 13th and 6th vote, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to support the First Voting Draft amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 902-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. The third opinion is from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u8	Thank you. Dear Madam President. Honourable Members, ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 902-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 27 November 2019, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 902-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2019. Mr Mladen Marinov, Minister of Interior and representatives of the Ministry took part in the Commission meeting. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Minister Marinov, who highlighted the part of the changes made with the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft Law in the Law on Protection of Disasters and in the Law on Structure of the Area. There is no regulatory order in the Law on Disaster Protection to collect, store and share data on damage and losses from disasters. The available damage and loss data are scattered, limited and difficult to compare as different criteria are used, such as the number of victims, the amount of damage, the number of events occurring in a given period, and others. The lack of systematic data on disaster losses does not enable the impact of disasters on the lives and health of citizens and on the governance of the state to be assessed. At the same time, due to this lack of data, it is not possible to assess the result of the investments made to reduce the risk of disasters. This justifies the need to amend the Law on the Protection of Disasters. There are problems in the control activity and imposing sanctions under the Law on Construction in the Area (STU) against builders for compliance with the requirements regarding the identification and punishment of infringement. The applicable banning norm under the existing provisions of the LUT by the fire safety and population protection authorities implementing state fire control in relation to the builder refers only to builders of natural persons. On a practical point, the hypothesis of building by a construction worker is rare, especially in larger and complex constructions, which is why it is necessary to make an addition to the Law, which also regulates the imposition of a penalty of interest to builders and sole traders. It is also necessary to refine the provision of art. 239, para. 2 of the LU with a view to overcoming contradictions in the implementation practice relating to the time limits for the formation of administrative criminal proceedings before issuing a permit for use or certificate for commissioning of the construction. During the discussion, questions were raised by Commissioners, who were answered by the representatives of the Ministry of Interior. On the basis of the discussions and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 12................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u11	Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u12	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Today, once again, we are looking at amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act. The reason is that the preparation of this project is dictated by the desire to implement reforms. Unfortunately, we do not see any reform in this bill either. In this bill we see an attempt to solve accumulated problems over the years at the Ministry of Interior piece by piece. Just to remind my colleagues, the minister knows best, apart from those who are in the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, that only a year ago when there were serious protests regarding payment and other social benefits that employees wanted had put in place a basic requirement: a new Act on the Ministry of Interior, not solving the problem on a piece, not solving individual cases, which after themselves are likely to cause more problems than solving others. Here we see that an attempt is being made to create a serious Directorate-General for the General Directorate for Gendarmerie, which will unite the Gendarmerie, the Fight against Terrorism and so on. At the same time, however, we do not see precise and clear estimates of what will happen there... whether the administration will be reduced, whether this administration will increase, what costs are needed, what results from this whole process. This may be useful, but it may not turn out to be useful. That is to say, we did not, by ourselves, remain deeply convinced that this would result in the necessary result. Surely some estimates have been made, but in the end, our vision.. and we will continue to stand up for this thesis, this is one of the reasons why we refrain from this bill is that we need a whole new concept and a whole new vision for reforms in the Ministry of Interior, and it is in line with the trends that need to be followed: with the demands that the ministry's employees have, with those who are really active on the ground, with those who carry out and the reviews, those who carry out the patrol work and so on. We do not believe that this bill solves these problems. We don't think there's any final outcome. We are not clear why and for what reason this bill makes such amendments, which could also lead to a violation of the social balance in the Ministry, if I may say so. We see that it is proposed to introduce one percent of the existence of trade unions, which suggests that some trade unions could benefit at the expense of others. This is the question: what will result from whether trade union rights of employees of the Ministry of Interior will actually be affected? So this bill, at our discretion, raises more questions than answers, and we will insist in the foreseeable future that a whole new Act on the Ministry of Interior be given to us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u14	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! I support what my colleague Ivan Ivanov said, and I will not rush to repeat his these and further develop them. However, I would like to draw attention to other things that, as if insufficient attention has not been paid from a practical point of view and the consequences that could be caused. I would say that it is a step in the right direction to propose a legislative text that protects the policeman's physical integrity, or: lv. Unfortunately, however, this step in the right direction takes place on barefoot. The consequences that will arise are not taken into account, namely: any one of those who are punished by the relevant act will start to appeal. In turn, this will lead to the police authority's obligation to prove how any violence has been committed against him. This, on the other hand, will lead any officer who has been touched and not the authority who has drawn up the order to attend at least two court sessions and will be absent from work. I think it is unthinkable, all the more so, that in the media, the most information about violence exercised on a police officer and police authorities is usually done during some mass events that are guarded by these authorities, proving it will be difficult. I would also like to draw attention to the abolition of the principle of accidental distribution of pre-trial proceedings, as prosecutors will be entitled to seize cases from the investigating officer concerned and to assign pre-trial proceedings to another investigating officer. I believe that this is also a misconception of the Ministry of Interior, all the more so that this will reduce the quality of work and lead to the loading of certain investigative officers at the expense of other colleagues. I think that good and conscientious investigative officers are also currently sufficiently burdened and an additional burden by the prosecution will only reduce the quality of their work and there will be an uneven distribution of the work at the Ministry of Interior, which will lead to demotivation against these people. The current bill also ignores what has been spoken for a long time, namely the territorial distribution of the Ministry of Interior. We need to pay attention to the World Bank report, which proposes a radical reformation of the office. One of the World Bank's proposals is a quadruple contraction of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior. This analysis, by the way, was supported by the analysis of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which was commissioned by colleague Valentin Radev when he was a minister. Or in other words: the current proposals for changes will not give rise to any consequences that will be favourable to society, on the contrary there will be consequences that will be adverse to the office itself. We will therefore abstain from support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. Do we have any lines? No. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u16	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The Group of the United Patriarchs will support the current bill. It does create an additional respect for law enforcement officials that we have long wanted to be created. On the other hand, it leads to internal restructuring with the Ministry of Interior, with a view to more adequate functioning. However, I take the floor to speak not only because of this support because of another problem which we believe should be found in this bill and which we will develop between first and second readings and will offer it to your attention, because one of the problems that we have discussed and negotiated in practice with the Political Party GERB before the establishment of this government was the restoration of voluntary squads, i.e. volunteers to help protect public order, of course, in sync and under the direction of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. This bill starts with texts for volunteers, but only for those who still exist, are governed by law, it is related to the management of disasters and fires. We believe that this matter should be further developed. We need regulation of voluntary squads to give powers to elected, of course, citizens with the relevant educational center, with a purely judicial background, who, by passing the relevant training in the Ministry of Interior, have the powers of patrol and security activities to counteract domestic crime, especially in small settlements, and create respect and enforce the Law where there is a deficit of representatives of the Ministry of Interior. So in this regard, we will develop our proposals and propose them between first and second readings. We hope for support, because this is ultimately part of the common priorities that have brought us together in governance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! I appeal to you with one appeal: let's look really at the spirit of this law, at first reading we are still, and see that in fact the expression of the overall appearance of the bill is realising the vision of the management in improving structural work and operational work, and the operational management of the services in the Ministry of Interior. Let's do an accurate analysis of what we read as legal proposals and see that in there is actually expressed the desire of the Ministry's management, the structures of the Ministry to work better to increase or make better the selection of input personnel, to increase, to make real control of the qualities of employees working in the structures and to find options, measures and roads, to enable the Ministry's management to carry out its policy in the chamber and operational work. This is actually the expression of this law as a spirit. As texts and amendments to the Law, we will have the opportunity to debate it in detail at second reading. There is no problem with any of you who are willing to demonstrate your knowledge, skill, ability to debate it, accept it or reject it in the Chamber, in the committees. We do not have empty words in this bill, this is very important for a bill, especially when we are talking about a bill related to the Ministry of Interior. In it there are real steps, real goals and real, predictable results that will occur after its adoption. I heard colleagues talking here about affecting the rights of professional organizations in the Ministry of Interior. There's no such thing! Everyone who is familiar with the subject knows what representativeness really is and why it aims to have representation in a professional organization in the Ministry. Two people cannot have professional representation in the Ministry and participate in the meetings. From now on, I just want to congratulate the Ministry for finally making a decision on one text, very useful, in my opinion, and this is the control of the use of drugs at the entrance, even when applying this plague of our society. At the moment, the access of young people or people in the Ministry of Interior system at the entrance should be controlled. In this regard, the Bill proposes clear and precise solutions to be able to stop access there. Yeah, that's the right move for me, guys. If someone doesn't agree to have that kind of control, that's another topic. So I call again with an appeal to you, as I started, and I will complete: see the spirit of the proposed changes. See exactly what is aimed at them and support the Bill, and on the work on the texts in the committees I think we have plenty of time, we have enough expertise in both the left and the right parts of the Chamber, so that we can get everything out of here as good as possible for the work of the Ministry of Interior. The ministry, which actually really needs public support, we can give it to it when we accept its legal initiatives with debate and with agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. - What's the line? I can't see. I see Mr. Yankov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u20	Dear Madam President, can you turn on the weather?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u21	Without a map, it's probably Mr. Yankov, so take the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u22	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There is hardly any need for an in-depth commentary on the transformations in the Ministry of Interior, because this is not a system of changes, and these are permanent changes now. Common structural changes lead to systemic disorganization. The lack of an appropriate concept of the actual functional purpose of the individual units in the system and the differentiation of the tasks performed by them is visible. The role of the police is increasingly being reduced and thus the overall preventive action in the fight against domestic crime, the personal security of citizens and the protection of public order. Instead of the police being close to people as guarantor of security and order, we see the growing role of units whose purpose is essentially action. The increasing capacity of the gendarmerie is not justified only as part of the measures to ensure national security with the function of guarding national and strategic sites and, if necessary, being part of the country's defence power, it is added to its purely police functions. Together with the fight against terror, returned to the structural staff of the Ministry of Interior specialists from the National Institute of Criminalism and the Institute of Psychology prove that weakly compatible units can be under uniform leadership if they are part of GERB's vision for the Ministry of Interior. That's what we've been demonstrated for 10 years now. Therefore, these frequent changes are required because they do not support the normal functioning of the system. It is also strange that even a minister who comes from this system of careers, as well as the former "Cvetan Tsvetanov," Valentin Radev, Professor Vuchkov, Rumyana Bachvarova, is taking measures for the increasingly complete delict of the police. Obviously, after GERB there will be a real reform of the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Tzipov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! GERB's parliamentary group will support the submitted bill for amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act. This bill has been prepared for more than one year and steps into a serious analysis, on the one hand, related to the implementation of the Management Program of the Government of GERB and "United Patriarchs" and, on the other hand, to the analysis of the criminogenic situation in the country and to the need to clarify specific basic situations laid down in the Act in force for the Ministry of Interior. I'd like to draw attention to a few important things. The negotiators raised the question: what gives rise to the need for these structural changes, and why are they being made to date? Let us note that we are consistent in fulfilling the commitments made under the Coalition Government's Management Program, where the commitment to countering so-called conventional crime has been made quite clearly and unambiguously. The first steps have been taken so far with an increase in police presence in small towns. More than 2,500 police officers have been assigned. That was the main commitment. The analysis subsequently showed that the mobility of these units should be strengthened, which counteracted the so-called domestic crime in the direction of both prevention and public order protection. What is more logical than restructuring a unit such as the Gendarmerie Directorate of the General Directorate of the National Police and giving it authority, except to protect public order, and to guard strategic sites?! One such power is linked to countering conventional crime. Another such power is related to assisting police authorities in carrying out their control functions under the Road Traffic Act outside the settlements. Since in the last two years, thank God, we have achieved, in my opinion, enough serious success in reducing both road accidents and those who have suffered from them, why not include this structure in order to achieve even better results?! Why not congratulate ourselves in 2021 with the reduced number of traffic accidents and the number of casualties by more than 20%?! With regard to the issues raised also in the Internal Commission meeting for the counter-terrorism unit. Dear Members of Parliament, this is a normal European practice. These units are located either in the national police of the Member States of the European Union or in the Gendarmerie. Of course, we need to think in such a direction about the department of subordination of the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior to be involved in other specialized police operations, such as the capture of particularly dangerous criminals. Next, let me draw attention to the fact that a major part of the Bill has been developed in cooperation with and with the trade union organizations of the Ministry of Interior, with which more than 10 meetings have taken place, which may be important issues related to the passage of the service, with disciplinary practice, with the possibility that police and fire department staff may be able to work on projects related to European funds and receive additional remuneration. At this time, there was only one very limited number of cases. To conclude, in order not to take up more of your time, I would like to draw attention to a change from the Transitional and Final Provisions relating to the introduction of a new model identity document, namely a temporary identity card. We believe that with the introduction of this document, we will be able to achieve some limitation of cases of diversion from justice. What have we witnessed in the last 15 years?! Many convicted persons are currently not serving punishment for being deprived of liberty. This proposal will enable the police authorities to exercise control over those persons before the final sentence is delivered. This identity card gives absolutely all the rights that every Bulgarian citizen has. Since, within the meaning of that person's Code of Criminal Procedure, a measure of procedural coercion has been laid down, a ban on leaving the country, in such cases, the regular ID card will be revoked for the duration of this measure of procedural coercion, and the person will receive the exact same valid document called the timely identity card. The analysis has shown us that we could thus succeed and limit cases of diversion from justice. Once again, I would like to reiterate the call for plenary in conclusion: let us support this bill, it is useful, we are ready to discuss any sensible proposal. Regarding what was said by the pre-spokesmen that a new Act on the Ministry of the Interior has been spoken for a long time. Let me remind you that the current law has now been passed, promulgated and entered into force five years ago. I think it is time for us to realise the need to leave certain provisions, no matter what time they were adopted, to act and to see how we can refine them for the benefit of both society and employees, and not every new government to think about a whole new legislation. You see, the current government has complied with and has not changed the law adopted during the Oresharski government. I don't even want to comment on what was then the need to adopt this new law. Let us approach responsibly in the interests of both the public and the employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. - What's the line? The line is Mr. Iankov, then Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u26	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tzipov, we understand your call to support again the structural change in the Ministry of Interior. You must also have come to know the reasons attached to the proposals for change so made. In all your proposals for amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act there is invariably the motive for increasing the efficiency of the Ministry of Interior.. more than 10 changes since 2009, and four entirely new laws! I understand your desire to remodel the Ministry of Home Affairs on your casual thought. However, when you talk about increasing the efficiency of the units in the Ministry of Interior, we have repeatedly paid attention to the work of the regional inspectors. And if these changes were related to improving precisely the effectiveness of the work of the regional inspectors, and not by acquiring functions, reducing the capabilities of the National Police where they are related to the prevention units, the duplication of activity, the creation of the possibility of a punching fist in the face of the Ministry of Interior's leadership through a new head office, because I claim that even in this resolution, Gendarmerie will remain a unit in which direct force is applied despite the replaced new functions, it will not have the opportunity, as it will duplicate the activities of the National Police. This is how you did with the Directorate-General for Organized Crime, engaging in the activities of the Economic Police. [[(Comments from GERB:]] Now you're causing chaos again at the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u27	Time, Mr. Yankoff! Thank you. Second line, Mr. Ivanov, come in. Third line, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u28	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Mr. Tzipov, Dear colleagues! Our statement that we need a whole new Act for the Ministry of Interior is not a ruse of this parliamentary group, my personal quirk or anyone else from our parliamentary group. These are the demands of the employees of the Ministry of Interior. You can look if you want media, if you want to review your notes as Deputy Minister, because they came to you personally, personally, to state this thing. I am expressing their opinion. Colleague Yankov has already told you that this law has been amended more than 10 times. From the proposals of MPs from GERB, this law, which was adopted in 2014, was completely changed. All of it! I don't see anything in favor of the Ministry's employees. And I personally cannot be convinced that this restructuring of the Gendarmerie in the Directorate-General will contribute to better working conditions for those working, for example, in the Gendarmerie or in the Directorate-General of National Police. Because we have spoken, and it has been said in the Commission that Gendarmerie must have a slightly wider function, that is, guarding the settlements where there is an increased criminogenic manifestation of some groups of citizens. Whether this is going to happen or not, I can't tell. You spoke to the trade unions. Yeah, but some union guys used to come here. I do not deny the right of others to defend the interests of those who are members. You know what I mean? Therefore, to us, it is, to put it mildly, unacceptable to this law. We'll hold back, we won't mind. We will abstain, we will make our proposals between first and second readings, but we will not give in to this request, which is the request of the employees of the Ministry of Interior, to have a new law. Mr. Minister, you've heard these things too. Your colleagues come to you. You come from these circles, and you know better than we do what you're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Manev, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u30	Mr. Tzipov, I have a request for you with this line. Please explain to your colleagues for the short time you have in the back, that what Mr. Ivanov really wants is one thing, and what Mr. Yankov wants is another. What is happening is actually the necessary thing to happen, to get the entry of a structure of the Ministry of Interior into its normal function. That's what you're going to explain, so I'm asking you to do it. Last thing I want to do is calm you down before I sit down. Soon there will be no new law on the Ministry of Interior, because soon there will be no new governors. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. Mr. Tzipov, for the back. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u32	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Yankov, you are talking about chaos there was chaos in other times. Let me remind you, however, that Gendarmerie, as the main structure of the Ministry of Interior, has always existed. However, we cannot in any way talk about bleeding out of the General Directorate of National Police and the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior by giving certain functions to this new structure. Let me remind you again that also under the Law until 2008. Under the then law adopted in 2005, there was a National Service of Gendarmerie with absolutely identical functions. Let me remind you that the reform with the current new Act on the Ministry of Interior also envisioned precisely the need to create a structure for this priority................................ and countering terrorism. This is the currently changed security environment, these are the needs. Mr. Ivanov, there's a new Act for the Ministry of Interior five years ago. The same trade union officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs members of trade unions in the Ministry announced the adoption of this new law. I would like to assure you that the changes, the serious changes in it are only two: from 2015 and 2017 but these changes have in no way changed the chapters and texts with regard to the status of employees, their rights, no privilege, no additional remuneration has been changed, and in recent years this government has achieved serious success precisely with regard to the increase of the basic and additional remuneration of all employees of the Ministry of Interior. I will give you the following example - only in the last two years the minimum salary of a newly appointed officer and firefighter from 1 January next year will increase compared to 1 January 2017 by more than 25%, for which we have made our best efforts to convince both the government and the Minister of Finance, and this is a fact because the Ministry and the employees give their contribution in order to increase the revenue collection in the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u34	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! My procedure is the way I conduct myself. We asked on the grounds of art yesterday. 113 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to hold a hearing of the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev. The Minister knows very well that when there is an emergency and an emergency situation whether there is a day, an hour or what hour of the day we are, it absolutely doesn't matter. It also does not matter when a parent takes his child to an emergency room to help him, whether there is a day or an hour, and he should not make an appointment because it is key for a parent to examine his child. The children's hospital stopped its emergency reception and we of the opposition are extremely worried and we wanted the minister to come to answer these questions most cohesively. Our desire was of all political powers to ask him that question. It turned out, honourable ladies and gentlemen, honourable viewers, Bulgarian citizens, that it is important for the politicians of GERB to be clear the day and time for this emergency................................. when it comes to children.. for children who need to be examined.................................. You, de facto, keep the minister from coming here and answering not only the opposition's questions but also the government's questions. We consider this approach unacceptable, we consider it entirely unconstructive, all the more so, Madam President, that we have taken into account that the Minister is coming here today but to answer some other questions. You de facto with this refusal may be purely administrative you are right, but those people who are afraid and who are worried shows really your weakness because the health care from GERB brought him to the point that there are no two doctors in the country to find them in order not to close the emergency reception in the children's hospital.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u35	Time, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u36	Here's your health care. That's how this approach you're doing it is totally unacceptable to us. Not for a coincidence today, the European Commission came up with a report that says about Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u37	Time, time! There's no time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u38	...that we live unhealthy, we have inefficient health care and we die at the earliest in the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u39	Mr. Stoinev, thank you. Time's up. [[National Representative Dragomir Stoinev speaks in off microphones. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Just so you know, Mr. Stoynev, I expected that you would make a motion to vote this item to be on the agenda. Because you don't have an appointment and a date to come in, and I was expecting you... [[Noise and lines.]] I listened to you, and now I want you to listen to me. And I expected that you would come out today and say that you want to vote to get this item on the agenda. I will put your proposal, if you do so, to a vote in this House. [[Heckling]] You're doing a procedure to vote. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova. That's the rule, Mr. Stoinev, and we've accepted it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u40	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that emotions are unnecessary and indeed the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly must be respected. Yes, you made a motion for a hearing, but you formally didn't set an appointment or a date for the hearing. [[Replying and shouting.]] This morning we expected you to make a proposal to include this item on the agenda. You didn't. Madam President, do not let your colleagues, after three years of running this National Assembly, not know...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u41	Please be quiet, Mr. Stoinev. Please! [[Relations from the National Representative Dragomir Stoynev from the place.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u42	...three years of functioning of the National Assembly not knowing the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.) Noise and lines.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u43	Mr. Stoynev, please! Listen to Mrs Daritkova, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u44	I don't think the Ministry of Health was waiting for you to remember to listen to him to create order and organization for the adoption of children. This happened and the only fact is that it has closed the intensive care unit of the Pediatric Hospital and the children are admitted to the other units where assistance in emergency situations can be provided and the need for resuscitation is Pirogov, Alexandrov Hospital and the Third City Hospital. The order has been set up and you should not be unduly concerned, and the hearing is conducted in the way in which it is stated in the Rules of Procedure, and yet you, as MPs who are responsible for respect for order and legality, must follow the procedures. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u45	Here you are, Mr. Stoinev, for a personal explanation. There's no personal explanation on the way in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u46	It's the way it's supposed to be. It wasn't when it came to an emergency reception and kids... [[The President turns off the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u47	Mr. Stoynev, Mr. Stoynev, calm down! Mr. Stoynev, please take it easy! [[National Representative Dragomir Stoinev speaks in off microphones.]] Is there something going on between you and me? For what procedure? The second time you take the way you conduct it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u48	That's right, second time I'm taking the floor the way it is. Because, Madam President, yesterday we agreed in principle that indeed today the Minister will come at 11:00 to answer. Today you insolently make up that, you see, there should be a day and an hour. Explain it to these parents when they go to the E.R. that they didn't have a day and an hour and that they couldn't come to the children's hospital, but had to go to the Third City, to Pirogov. These hospitals have a completely different profile and another profile, Mrs. Daritkova, shame is what you say...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u49	Are you a doctor, Mr. Stoinev?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u50	We want the minister here at 11:00... [[National Representative Dragomir Stoinev spoke in off microphones, banging on the stands.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u51	Don't tap into my stands! You have the opportunity to do a procedure. Please! Have you done the procedure to call the Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u52	At 11:00 p.m. to come under art. 113, all political forces to answer two questions...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u53	Mr. Stoinev, turn around and let me tell you what procedure you need to do. Turn around, drink some water and turn around and I'll tell you the procedure. [[Noise and lines in the hall. People's representative Dragomir Stoinev speaks in off microphones. Conversation between the Chairman Tsveta Karayancheva and the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev.]] Which item do you propose to be on the agenda for this procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u54	At the point before parliamentary control. When are we doing a hearing? You as a host should know when we do under art. 113? Of course it has to be before parliamentary control, because the minister comes here. That's when it should be.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u55	We have an agenda, Mr. Stoinev. We're using some kind of rule book.? We're following some rules, aren't we?! [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Svilensky. Maybe you figured out how to do it. Tell us which item on the agenda, let us follow the Rules. [[Noise and lines from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u56	Madam President, if there's anyone in this room who needs to know how to do it, it's you!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u57	Well, I've told you a few times.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u58	Let's listen to me for two minutes and then talk after me all you want, because what you did to Mr. Stoinev is not right.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u59	I give him my word.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u60	And this tribune is not yours to say, "Don't knock me down the stands! " - Whatever. Ms. Karayancheva, yesterday the parliamentary group submitted a proper proposal for a hearing under art. 113 with the right of the parliamentary groups to ask two questions. You alone have the right as MP on the day to put this item to the vote by the MPs and to convince the majority. More importantly, it is not only to subject it, but to accept it, as the case is important, the case is urgent, the case does not need a date, an hour and a minute, and there is no need to hide behind the administrative barriers of rules, rules and so on. Bulgarian citizens are restless, Bulgarian citizens are worried and this is the stand for Bulgarian citizens, from which they need to hear from the person on whom it depends, the Minister of Health, provided that he will be here in one hour, and you hide it inexplicably why. This morning colleagues from GERB came and said: you did not specify a date and time, ridiculously. Yesterday, I said, yesterday! [[Replying from the hall.]] Aren't you ashamed, fellow Members, to hide behind an administrative omission that hasn't been mentioned? There is no way, there is no way for the parliamentary group to set a date and time, because it is the right of the President, read the Rules! Four mandates stand on these banks and you never learn who can offer when! My request, Madam President, is to you no longer, not to the leadership of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u61	Go ahead, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u62	Put it to the vote, appeal to the MPs from all parliamentary groups to support this proposal and when the Minister of Health comes to conduct the procedure under art. 113, calm the Bulgarian citizens, calm the MPs and move on to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u63	Tell me a point you want to get on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u64	Minister's hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u65	Second or third?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u66	What point are we on now? Second?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u67	Now we're at point one. [[Noise and lines from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u68	You, tell me when it will be before parliamentary control. Point three, if you like. It is your right, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u69	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Thank you. I'll put Mr. Svilensky's proposal to the vote, but I can't convince anyone how to vote. The MPs have free will, I will call on them to vote. When I'm chairman, I'm chairman of everyone, Mr. Mirchev. [[Noise and lines from the hall.]] Colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for a hearing of Minister Ananiev under the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, which Mr Svilenski proposed just now that he become the third item of today's agenda. [[Relations from the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev.]] Okay, even before parliamentary control. 140 MPs voted: 69, against 3, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. [[Loud noise, lines and calls.]] Please re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u70	Dear colleagues, shame and disgrace! Shame and shame! With this, I can summarize the vote and the discussion so far. Aren't you ashamed?! Children's Hospital is closed in modern Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u71	Let's do the procedure, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u72	...and you are watching unattended abstentions and abstentions against.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u73	Make an offer for the procedure, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u74	Madam President, you really are the first among equals. My request to you is: have some impact on these people and let them support the proposal to come the minister. Really act as authority in this National Assembly and give this sign to vote for. Because they are waiting, they do not know what to do. Summon them!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u75	Not like that, Mr. Svilensky. Please don't insult the MPs! Colleagues, a re-vote procedure Mr. Svilenski just made to include an item on the agenda for hearing Minister Ananiev. Vote 151 MPs: for 72, against 5, abstention 74. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We continue with the debates on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 902-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2019. They voted 150 MPs: 102, against 19, abstention 29. The motion is accepted. Mr. Nunev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I am making a procedural proposal the term between the first and second voting of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Act on the Ministry of Interior to be extended by three weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. I'm voting on the procedure Mr. Nunev just did. They voted 136 MPs: 129, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Moving on to point two: For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Here you are, Mr. Toshev, to present the Defense Committee Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Please, before I start reading the Report, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that Mr. Atanas Zapreyanov, Deputy Minister of Defence, be allowed to participate in the meeting under point two.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u79	Please vote on the Deputy Minister's admission regime. Vote 92 MPs: 85, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber. Here you go, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u80	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law implementing the Convention on Munitions and the Convention on the prohibition of the use, storage, production and transfer of landmines and their destruction, No 954-01-79, tabled by a group of MPs on 12 November 2019. At a regular meeting held on 21 November 2019, the Defence Committee of the Forty-fourth National Assembly examined, at first vote, the Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on the Implementation of the Convention on Munitions and the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Storage, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and for their Destruction, No 954-01-79, submitted by a group of Members of the National Assembly on 12 November 2019, distributed with Order No 950-01-265/13.11.2019 to the President of the National Assembly. The meeting was attended by Mr. Atanasov Zapreyanov, Deputy Minister of Defence, Mrs. Elena Markova, Director of the Legal and Regulatory Activities Directorate at the Ministry of Defence, and Brigadier General Mitko Grigorov, Director of the Department of Logistics at the Ministry of Defence. The Chairman of the Defence Committee briefed the members of the Commission on the order of the President of the National Assembly on the allocation of the Bill between Standing Committees. The amendment and supplement law in question was presented on behalf of the importers by the National Representative Valentin Radev. Mr. Radev made a brief summary of the proposed amendments and additions. He pointed out that the proposed draft law aims to improve the legal framework governing the issuance of certain permits for the destruction and transport of cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Deputy Minister Zaprianov briefed the members of the Defence Committee with an opinion supporting the proposed amendments and additions. He pointed out that the destruction of cluster ammunition was in line with the Convention on cluster ammunition, which was ratified by a law adopted by the Forty-first National Assembly on 10 February 2011. (DV, No. 16 of 2011) At present, a project is under way to destroy the Bulgarian Army's cluster ammunition through US funding and the selection of a contractor through the NATO Support Agency (NSPA). The proposed bill will allow the implementation of the quoted project. In the subsequent discussion, the people's representative Kolyo Milev said he would support the proposed bill and asked a question: what quantities of anti-personnel mines were left to destroy? Deputy Minister Zaprianov and Brigadier General Grigorov replied that Bulgaria has fulfilled its obligations under the Convention on anti-personnel mines. 17 MPs participated in the subsequent vote. The Defence Committee adopted the following opinion by 17 votes..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. The second report belongs to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u82	Madam President, honourable Members, I would like to present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law implementing the Convention on Munitions and the Convention on the prohibition of the use, storage, production and transfer of landmines and their destruction, No 954-01-79, submitted by Milen Vassilev Mihov and a group of MPs on 12 November 2019. At its regular meeting held on 27 November 2019, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the Convention on Munitions and the Convention on the prohibition of the use, storage, production and transfer of landmines and their destruction, No 954-01-79, submitted by Milen Mihov and a group of MPs on 12 November 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Defence: Mitko Grigorov On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Valentin Radev. In his statement, he noted that the Bill aims to improve the legal framework governing the operation of the destruction of cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines. In the event of the need for the armed forces to use the remaining ones in storage for special purposes, anti-personnel mines will also have to be destroyed. It is possible the destruction to be carried out outside Bulgaria. In this regard, an addition is provided for by which the provisions on cluster ammunition also apply to anti-personnel mines. In the event of the destruction of cluster ammunition and landmines outside the country, it is intended to be issued by the competent authorities under the national law of the State of the State of the State of the Party to the Convention on Munitions and the Convention on Anti-personnel Mines. This Law only regulates the possibility that the transport of cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines for the purpose of destruction is carried out by persons who have been authorised to destroy. This bill takes into account that destruction and transport are two different activities, especially in cases where destruction takes place outside the territory of the country, the authorisation for transport to be granted to natural and legal persons registered as traders in the territory of a Member State entrusted with the contract transport within the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Ministry of Defence expressed an opinion to support the bill. The opinion of the Ministry of Interior is that the Directorate General of National Police is unable to foresee the risk and the proposal to be identified in the Bill as a competent authority for issuing permissions is unfounded. On the basis of the discussion held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, acting unanimously, by 19 votes for abstention and abstention, proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Law implementing the Convention on Cassette Munitions and the Convention on the prohibition of the use, storage, production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and their destruction, No 954-01-79, submitted by Milen Vassilev Mihov and a group of MPs on 12 November 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. I'm opening the debate, colleagues. Mr. Milev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u84	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister Zapreyanov! Our parliamentary group, BSP, for Bulgaria, will support the changes made to the Project for the destruction of cluster ammunition and also to it and to the anti-personnel mines. You all know that Bulgaria has joined the ratification of the Ottawa Convention. As early as 1998, the Thirty-eightth National Assembly adopted and was then published in the Official Gazette. The Ministry of Defence began to destroy the anti-personnel mines, which were mainly destroyed in the factories of the company "Terem" and, above all, at the plant "Tsar "Screet" in Kostenets. But anyway, under art. 3, para. 1 has a percentage of anti-personnel mines left, which are currently stored in the warehouses of the Ministry of Robbery. They are primarily for training in military schools, also for their use by our companies and institutes for the creation of mining and liquidation devices to make the discovery and demining, as well as the production of such devices. It is true that at the moment military schools do not have a special need for training on these mines, but in the world there are many anti-personnel minefields that have not yet been mined. It is also about Africa, and it is also about the Western Balkans, which is about Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, where these minefields are currently being guarded, there are only passageways through them, and this destruction will continue in the future. You also know that many victims have been given, many mutilated people have from anti-personnel mines. That is why we support the inclusion of anti-personnel mines on the basis of the Convention on the prohibition on the use, storage, production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and on their destruction, which we have ratified. This should be done at the same time as the Treaty concluded under the Project for the Elimination of Munitions, which is under the 2011 Convention. These proposals address two problems in particular on disposal permits and transport permits. The permit for destruction is made by the Ministry of Defence and the transportation by the Directorate General of the National Police. In addition, another question is also addressed about the materials derived from the destruction of mines and, in particular, in their assembly, both the use of explosives and the packaging and materials derived from them. Now it is possible for companies to carry out the destruction to be responsible for the full use and use of the explosives and materials they receive. It is given the opportunity not to do so in Bulgaria, but to do so abroad with the countries that have signed these conventions, which are party to the conventions on the basis of the Treaty with the NATO Support Agency. I believe that this issue will not be resolved immediately, as the anti-personnel mines cannot be destroyed immediately, as there are about 4,000 at the moment Every year, even the Institute of Metal Science and Education, if there are those who use it, there is a reception drop that needs to be destroyed and this process will be long, permanent. It's a matter of deciding the right way. We'll support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u85	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law implementing the Convention on Munitions and the Convention prohibiting the use, storage, production and transfer of landmines and their destruction, No 954-01-79, submitted by a group of Members of the National Assembly on 12 November 2019. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Toshev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u86	Madam President, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly propose a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the Convention on Cassette Munitions and the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Storage, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on their Destruction, No 954-01-79, submitted by a group of MPs on 12 November 2029, to be subject to a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u87	We are voting on the procedure. Vote 98 MPs: 94, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u88	The Amendment
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u89	Without reading the title, we've already read it several times.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u90	................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 2 after the words.. Cassette ammunition.. or land mines...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 8, para. The amount to
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u91	I put to the vote the name of the Law:....................................................................................................... We vote on the title I interrupted Mr. Toshev to read. Vote 98 MPs: 96, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote and § 1 supported by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u92	Madam President, I propose two editorial amendments to § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u93	First read it as it is, then we'll do the repairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u94	..................................................... Article 2 shall be inserted in Chapter 2. 27a: Art. 27a. (1) Cassette ammunition and anti-personnel mines shall be destroyed by natural and legal persons outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the basis of an authorisation for destruction or equivalent document issued by the competent authorities under the national law of the State Party to the Convention on Munitions and the Convention on Anti-personnel Mines where the destruction will take place. In these cases, authorisation for destruction under art. 8, para. 1 shall not be issued. (2) In the cases under para. 1 the transport into the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the destruction of cluster ammunition and landmines outside it shall be issued to the persons under para. 1 or of natural and legal persons registered as traders in the territory of a Member State in which the persons under para. 1 have contracted the transport. The Transport Authorisation shall be issued by the Director of the Directorate-General for National Police or an official appointed by him. (3) For obtaining permission to transport persons under para. 2 submit to the Director of the GNP an application, in addition to the documents referred to in Article 2. 19, p. 2 and 3 shall apply: 1. an authorisation for destruction or equivalent document issued by the competent authorities under the national law of the State of the State of the Party to the Convention on Munitions and the Convention on Anti-personnel Mines where the destruction will take place; 2. a copy of a contract with a natural or legal person registered as a trader in the territory of a Member State for the transport of cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the purpose of destruction where the person carrying out the destruction does not carry out the transport personally. Final provision § 3. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u95	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. I put to the vote the editorial amendments made: The words "created" shall be art. Article 27 (a) and (b) are replaced by the following: Article 27 (a) and (b) of Art. 27a (c) 27a, para. 2 after the words in the cases under para. For the purposes of point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). We are voting on the editorial amendments that have been made. Vote 89 MPs: 85, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote § 2, the Final provision and § 3, proposed by the Commission, with the editorial amendments made. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted. Colleagues, we'll continue at 11:05 with parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u96	Good afternoon, Minister. Colleagues, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 22 November 2019 to 28 November 2019: A question was received from the MP Desislav Chukolov and Pavel Shopov to Krasimir Karakachanov "Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister for the Bulgarian military contingents abroad." The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 6 December 2019. Written answers from: - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on six questions from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Anna Slavova; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Mihail Hristov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the MPs Hristo Prodanov and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Stefan Burgeev; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the MPs Desislav Taskov, Georgi Mihailov, Ilian Timchev and Georgi Yordanov. A declaration on behalf of a group. Mr. Taskov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u97	Declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Yesterday the report of the European Commission on the state of health in Bulgaria for 2019. The conclusions of this report are startling and we believe that it is necessary to deal with it right now, namely: Bulgaria has the highest proportion of direct payments from patients almost three times higher than the average for the European Union. Bulgarians have the lowest average life expectancy in the European Union and a high rate of preventable mortality, Mr. Minister. That is, we live unhealthy, we have inefficient health care and we die at the earliest in the European Union. Health expenditures increase and burden more and more the pockets of Bulgarians, making healthcare inaccessible to people with low incomes. In addition, they sink into an ineffective structured system. Postponement of reform in the sector does not allow balancing these disproportions. Against this background, the number of hospitalizations in Bulgaria is significantly greater than that in the European Union. Private hospitals have increased six times, and hospitalizations in them are 78 times. At the same time, the high levels of debt of public hospitals are a lasting problem to be addressed, said in our language, only palatically, namely, the problem is not solved for long term. Ladies and gentlemen, this year's report is virtually no different from the previous one. Three years we expect effective measures from you and three years you offer us the same structure of the health budget without listening at all not only to our recommendations, but also to the findings of the European institutions. I'm going to say that no matter how much we increase the health care money, they're going to sink again. We pour from empty to empty, there will be no real result, only we will buy some more time without reform. A clear example of the breakdown of the system is the ten months of protests by health care professionals and the announcement of a few days ago of the closure of the emergency reception at the National Pediatric Hospital, which you know is legally inadmissible for its existence. We have witnessed an impeccable statement and action leading to the resignations of doctors. Dear, you are incompetent to manage the health care system. This is not only our assessment, but also the European institutions. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Taskov. We're moving on to parliamentary control. [[National Representative Georgi Svilenski wants the floor for procedure.]] Mr. Svilensky, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Madam President, ten minutes ago this House rejected the proposal of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u100	Today?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u101	Today, now, at this time, yes, as the problem is urgent, the emergency hospital for children is not working, Mrs. Daritkova, and the minister is here.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u102	There's no emergency hospital for children. You tried to hide it, but the Minister of Health is here. My appeal to you, Mr. Minister, and to you, Madam President, is to give the opportunity, despite the refusal of the ruling by GERB because all other parliamentary groups supported the proposal, despite the refusal of the ruling by GERB, to hear the Minister, to be aware of the Bulgarian society of what is happening in the Children's Pediatric Hospital, because, Mr. Minister, it is unacceptable in the 21st century that hospitals should close and that the specialists should not be there and that you should stand so silently and watch in this Chamber what is happening. [[Reply from Minister Kiril Ananiev.]] Tell this to the Bulgarian citizens: why did it come to this case? Why are you telling the media yesterday that you now understand that the hospital is being closed and that there are no specialists, and three months ago there were protests and strikes in this particular hospital on this particular occasion? Here are these questions you must answer and I hope that the President of the Bulgarian Parliament will give you this opportunity so that the Bulgarian citizens can know what country they live in, who cares about their healthcare and whether you are competent or not, is now the opportunity to prove, Mr. Minister. I understand that it may be beyond any rules, outside any norms, outside the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but more important than the life and health of Bulgarian citizens, more important than the life and health of Bulgarian children, Madam President, and Mr. Minister, there is no! You're right and come to this stand to have the discussion, to make the debate in front of the cameras. [[the President signals that time has run out]] Before Bulgarian citizens know what is happening in the country to which they pay taxes. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u103	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I can't give a hearing procedure, but I can give the minister the floor to give information on the subject that you asked. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u104	He has a say when he wants to.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u105	Yeah, yeah, yeah. I suggest he take the floor, give information. [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] The procedure has been voted on, Mr. Stoinev, and it has been rejected. Procedure, come in. Minister, will you take advantage of your right?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u106	Madam President, the formal procedures of the National Assembly should not become a motive for endangering the lives of many Bulgarian children. Dear Minister, as far as I know the Minister is a servant of the people, right? Be the servant of these children! Do not hide behind the procedures of the National Assembly! We call on you: come here to debate! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u107	Here you are, Mr. Minister, to provide information on the case. The procedure was rejected in the courtroom. The Minister will give information on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to address the left-hand side of the Chamber: when I come to parliamentary control after these words you have addressed to me, never say, "Dear Minister!" Don't just turn around because it's not true or you don't feel it!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u109	What did we say wrong?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u110	Once you say I'm an honourable minister, the next thing you know, I'm not doing anything, I'm leaving, I'm shutting down hospitals, I'm shutting down wards...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u111	We want a debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u112	Mr. Stoynev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u113	Please, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u114	Mr. Minister, please don't come into this conversation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u115	I only asked you not to turn with the honourable Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u116	It's perfectly normal to ask for a debate! You don't have to come!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u117	Mr. Stoynev, please! Here you are, Mr. Minister, to provide information on the case.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u118	No, I'm coming because I'm obliged to come.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u119	Here you go, Minister. Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u120	First of all, I would like to start by saying that neither the hospital is being closed nor the intensive care unit is being held by the emergency center. This so-called Emergency Center, it's an intensive care unit, not an emergency center. Do you know how many beds there are in there? Four beds and three medical professionals. Can't a country like ours deal with such a problem in such a critical period? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Of course he can! A full organization was created, an algorithm of action was created, communication between designated hospitals. All these medical facilities have emergency wards. Inside they have the necessary human capacity and staff. They have the necessary equipment inside. I use here, from this tribune, to address all parents and tell them: there will be no Bulgarian child left who will be deprived of the necessary medical care! We have wonderful doctors, wonderful medical facilities that will provide the necessary treatment for children. This question must not be politicized. I have sent a special committee that will conduct a full analysis of the capacity of this intensive care unit and will take all necessary action. [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] Please, Mr. Stoinev, I have a feeling you're not reacting properly!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u121	Please, Mr. Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u122	I want to tell you that, as early as May, we had a meeting with Prime Minister Borisov. The representatives of the entire hospital came, not only to this intensive care unit, and the prime minister asked them: what do you need to have peace in the hospital, to work professionally and everything you have, and it is possible to give our children to be treated? They said: we want to get the necessary resources to cover the initial salaries under the collective contract. How much do you need, ladies and gentlemen? A million and seven hundred! At the next meeting, the government voted a million and seven hundred and thus achieved wages. Secondly, you know that we changed some clinical pathways, and with the greatest increase were children's paths. This is an additional income that is provided for the normal functioning of children's hospitals, including the pediatric hospital. Three, what other problem do you have? With the beds you limit the beds. We've released the bed limit in the children's wards and clinics. Everything that was necessary was done. Just a few days ago, and related to another case, perhaps this particular case is being used to escalate the tension in this intensive care unit. I made a meeting yesterday with the three hospitals that will take care of the children. At this meeting he was also a representative of the Children's Hospital. We have created the necessary organization and you can be sure and sure that with the help of emergency aid, where we have made the appropriate routes and actions, there will be absolutely no problem. This does not mean that we will not work to clear the problems that are currently standing in front of this intensive care unit. Please don't politicize the question. We're doing everything we can to solve this problem. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u123	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. It's the way it's supposed to be. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u124	Madam President, I am thrilled because I have just heard from the Minister of Health and you have listened to him, he said that he has organized the emergency treatment of children who are falling and need intensive care in a hospital. That's the path the child went through who, unfortunately, died. This child, who needs resuscitation, sorry to speak with that tone, we need to establish it, call the ambulance and take it to Pirogov, but it will no longer need these care. This isn't the way. I'd like to ask you here, Mr. Minister, art. 19: Can a hospital exist without an intensive and emergency ward?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u125	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Yordanov. To me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u126	Yeah, that's the way it is. This is not the way, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u127	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. In the manner of conduct, Mr. Mihailov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u128	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I'm taking a procedure in the way a pediatrician with almost 40 years of internship. Please, Mr. Ananiev, you and I have known each other for almost 20 years, do not use this vocabulary here to update, synchronize, modernize, optimize. You as an intelligent person do not see that there are very serious problems in the health care of children? This morning an engineer-builder made the procedure for the construction of the children's hospital, which is being implemented now and is being swept away from one year, in front of all the media.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u129	Procedure in the manner of conduct, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u130	The procedure is as follows: I respect your desire to protect your own, but these are indefensible at the moment in the state we are in. It really isn't. These are measures of a piece, measures of fire, do not solve the main issues of health care. And I ask you as a Bulgarian, as a person who has experienced the fates of many children in my life. I know very well where I am from and where I have come from as a doctor and what I have seen, really turn to these children, to the Bulgarian nation, try to solve these problems. The rest, not to say one expression, are just words that don't solve anything. Thank you, Madam President, for listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u131	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. It's the way it's supposed to be. Mr. Prodanov was, then Mr. Timchev. Just keep it the way it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u132	Yes, Madam President, entirely in the manner of conduct. You see, Madam President, when you rejected the hearing procedure...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u133	I didn't reject the procedure, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u134	You and your party, we saw the groups vote with the votes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u135	The procedure has been postponed, it can be reworded next week.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u136	And instead, Madam President, if this procedure were adopted and here to discuss this issue, because it is really important, the Minister has come to explain that he does not want us to address him with the honourable Minister. Dear Minister...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u137	It's procedure to me, though.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u138	...we're gathered here to debate, argue and solve problems. And the fact that we have to respect each other is imperative, and we do. But in order to respect and support each other, we need to debate in order to be able to solve the problems, because hiding from the problems deepens them and brings Bulgaria into these rankings that you heard at the beginning of our declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u139	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov, but in order to debate, we must follow the rules. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's right, yeah. I merely added that we must follow the rules. Mr. Mirchev, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u140	Dear Madam President, dear colleagues, Mr Minister! Dear Madam President, in the manner of conduct. The minister came out and said this wasn't the place to politicize the problems. You should explain to him that this is the most political body, and here are policies that solve problems. If a minister doesn't know that and thinks he's just coming to talk at expert level, he's very wrong. What am I saying, Madam President, about wronging policies? Intensive Department of the National Pediatric Hospital with Four Beds What policies do we have when the intensive care unit in Sofia has four beds?! That same minister is talking not about politics, but about handing out money. These are the policies of the current Council of Ministers and of the current Minister, but handing out money and pouring them into a bucket without a bottom does not solve any problems. We also remember how they promised the nurses, but they kept protesting... [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u141	What is the procedure for me, Mr. Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u142	Yes, Madam President, it is to you that you allow a minister to be angry here, to say that this is not the place for policies, to say that he will once again pour money into a bucket without bottom, but he should get up and not be excused and angry, and you should call on him from this tribune to say through policies how he will finally resolve the problems in Bulgarian healthcare and Bulgarian children not to go up and down to hospitals because he has not done his job. If he can't answer that question, he can resign on his way out of this room. [[Lowered applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u143	Mr. Mirchev, the stands are open to all MPs and ministers. Mr. Timchev, please come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ananiev, dear colleagues! As is the organization of the work of the National Assembly, so is the organization of our healthcare. It's a chronic problem and it's not just the National Pediatric Hospital. Many hospitals exist because they have two beds each named as intensive wards. It's not funny, Dr. Daritkova. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] This had to happen to the child to clean up the health problems in Bulgaria, because the previous children who needed resuscitation at the National Pediatrics Clinic were not accepted at all, but burdened Pirogov and the other hospitals who actually have resuscitation. [[(Comments from GERB: Do you hear?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] I hear myself, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u145	Mr. Timchev, to me. What's the procedure for me?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u146	Because there was only this department on paper. And now that they don't have both the resuscitators who left, they don't qualify for the first-level hospital base.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u147	You're debating the point, Mr. Timchev. You have a procedure for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u148	This is the procedure of the organization. A society develops when it has an organization. For so many years we have been talking about reforming this health care of false and senseless existing wards in order to regulate hospitals, and ultimately draining the money of the taxpayers of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u149	Mr. Timchev, please do the procedure for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u150	Take a look at this. You can't name it the National Hospital of Pediatrics and at the same time not really meet the conditions, but just documents. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u151	Thank you, Mr. Timchev. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mrs. Naydenova, are you in the same way as yourself? Let it be in the manner of conduct rather than essentially the subject that it was. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The House voted to postpone the proposal, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u152	You rejected him. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u153	Please be quiet in the hall! Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u154	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, colleagues! I'm taking the floor the way it is, because I think it's right to do it all of us, every one of us, who's here in this room. I am making an addition to what my colleague Timchev addressed and I will proudly address him with the word "coworker." Not only the organization, do we have the technique yes, Mr. Minister, we have it; if we have specialists yes, we have them. We don't have the organization! Links have been destroyed, interactions have been destroyed between the individual hospitals.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u155	Mrs. Naydenova, you are speaking from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u156	Who should create them? This is our job, along with your executive. That's the third step. How long can we wait for him? What good is it that we have a dead technique, what good is it that we have malnourished medical professionals?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u157	Mrs. Naydenova, I beg you very much, let it be in the manner of conduct. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Bojankov, and you? First of all, Mr. Chenchev, he's ahead. Mr. Bojankov is sitting in the back, that's why you're here now.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u158	Sometimes, Madam President, lines don't matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u159	That's right, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u160	Procedure in the manner of conduct. Madam President, you're putting this Chamber into error. It was not the House that voted to reject the procedure, but your parliamentary group did. Now I turn to you, and accept it as a human act: what your parliamentary group has done with the vote, with the rejection, although I have seen the overwhelming looks of most of our colleagues here, why they do it at the command. Reminds me of this vote, I'm telling you, as a human act...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u161	Yeah, that's why I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u162	...of that vote on the molecule that had to be voted for the cancer patients in last year's budget so they could have a better chance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u163	Let this procedure be for now, let's not go back. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) The line from the MP Dragomir Stoinev.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u164	That's why I said human act. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u165	Mr. Stoynev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u166	Stop commenting, let him answer. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u167	I address the President of the National Assembly directly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u168	Here you go, Mr. Chenchev. It's just there's a lot of noise in the hall. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u169	Yes, thank you. Something very important. Parliamentary control is about to begin. What will we control here with the ministers in this way and with this minister? What are we gonna control?! The four beds in the E.R.?! How do we control them? By closing them. Something else that made a big impression on me. Madam President, talk to all your ministers and explain to them, because this one just said: "We met with the hospital, with all the people... "
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u170	Not this one, but the Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u171	Yeah, yeah, that minister we're talking about right now. The Prime Minister asked you what you needed? " Doesn't the Minister know what they need, why should the Prime Minister ask?! [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u172	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u173	These are the things you pay attention to and do not mislead the Chamber. GERB's parliamentary group rejected this thing. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u175	Madam President, my procedure is directed at you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u176	Of course, if it's the way it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u177	Since you have admitted inaccuracies by holding the hearing, you have said that the procedure has been postponed today. It's not postponed, it's rejected. Because the question we are discussing cannot be delayed. The emergency condition of the Bulgarian children who are seeking help there cannot be delayed. My question is to you: do you have eyes to tell these parents that the question has been postponed? I'm a parent, a lot of us in this room, too. Do you have eyes to look at these parents and say: Did you put up with a delay in that question? And I ask, are you pleased with this meeting, where colleagues from GERB are not in the Chamber, this debate for them is not important...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u178	How can the colleagues from GERB not be?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u179	Perhaps 10% of colleagues from GERB are here. The rest of them are gone. How do we look to Bulgarian citizens when the Minister of Health is physically here in the Chamber, but procedurally he will not answer these questions and we need to use other procedures to put this important issue to Bulgarian citizens and to our children? We look ridiculous because the Minister himself is here, what would everyone who looks at us say? See, he's here in the hall, but he's procedurally refusing to answer. Legally, he doesn't have to, because the majority has decided that...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u180	Got it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u181	... postpones the question. We need to look people in the eye and in the right text to tell them: the health of our children is postponed to some other time when the minister and their government have enjoyed it, they have morals...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u182	Mr. Bojankov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u183	...his conscience came and decided that they were in a comfortable mood to discuss the health of our children. That is what we must say in a straight text and you are responsible for this, Madam President. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u184	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. The Minister has informed the room of the state of the hospital at the moment. I see the opposition's desire is to have a political debate to politicize the subject. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u185	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! We have no option but with political motives in the highest political body of the Constitutional State to debate. Please interrupt my speech if I do not speak in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u186	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u187	Therefore, I will not take any direct action and will not ask questions to the Minister, as I am not a specialist either. Madam President, you have much more serious qualities than what you have demonstrated as a way of conducting and deciding in the last hour. Madam President, don't underestimate yourself! The rules of the National Assembly are the consequence of both the Constitution and our understanding of freedom and democracy, and they have a much higher values of morality, will, free human will, the good of the people. There is no way, Madam President, since you are in this place, after you have made the broader reasoning that there is no way that the rules can stand against people, be harmed to people, be used for this reason not to appreciate human problems, you are obliged, and that is my line to you in the manner of keeping these things in mind and not to comply with and use procedural rules, because there are some human values behind them, which unfortunately, our colleagues may not have fully grasped. I call you not only on the basis of the rules, and I hereby conclude, but on the basis of the principles of freedom, free human will, the care of people to read these rules. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u188	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. I assure you, I have read the Rules of Procedure, and today I have kept it strictly. We had to make a procedure to get the hearing on the agenda. This proposal has been put to the vote and has been postponed, rejected, could happen again next week. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What have I done to break the rules? I'm following the rules very strictly. You should have written that you wanted to... How many times have I asked you to write at which point you want this proposal to be considered today? You didn't do it, I had to do it. Colleagues, let's always follow the rules. Everything else is a matter of understanding. Here you go. We can't follow the rules only when we get rid of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u189	Thank you, Madam President. Unfortunately, that is really the way it is done by the ruling majority. The rules are respected when you get rid of them. Because in art. 113 It is nowhere written that a precise day, hour, minute and second should be indicated when to hold the respective hearing of the Minister. The procedure is described which parliamentary group for how many minutes has the right to questions, the ministers' answers and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u190	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u191	However, you have put the procedure, which was rejected by you by GERB, to a vote here. I take it you don't know where the word parliament comes from? To tell you the truth, she's old French and means a conversation, a meeting. You're running away from this conversation. You hid the minister from this conversation by voting, all of it wholeheartedly. Not 10%, as they are here now, the entire GERB group voted against the minister to be heard. Dear Minister, in respect of the honourable Members, please contact colleagues from GERB because they have planted you here in this chair at the moment. They are guilty in this way of having this debate in Parliament, which is not parliamentary and is not politically sustained as it should have been if the procedure had been followed. So follow the procedures! Follow the procedures! And, Minister, Madam President, Parliament is a political body and stop not politicizing! If not in parliament, where will policies be debated?! Politics are being debated here, not giving a mudguard to the hospitals or departments of the Prime Minister through the glass of the SUV. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u192	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u193	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ananiev! My procedure is in the manner of conduct and it is to you, Madam President. I'm standing, listening, and I can't understand why you let all this happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u194	Because that's the rules, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u195	No, there may be only two reasons to get to this ridiculous situation right now. The first is for you and the MPs from GERB not to care about the fate of Bulgarian children. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u196	Well, no, no. Please, Mr. Boychev, please, Mr. Boychev!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u197	That's why I'm shutting her down because...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u198	Let's be coworkers.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u199	...because I do not think that in this hall there are MPs who are not empathetic to the health of Bulgarian children. The second reason remains to get to this ridiculous situation. You don't have political confidence in Minister Ananiev. In order to get to this absurd situation, he is to stand in this room and not be allowed to explain this case to the stand, this means that you do not trust him with his qualities, for the actions he has as a minister, and for the work he performs. You don't trust your own minister to stand here and defend these actions, protect and say clearly that he knows what he's doing. This is the conclusion that I am making, and you, Minister, make the conclusion about who put you in this uncomfortable situation. Because you are not at the beginning of your term, you have already managed this system long enough. Here we have not once or twice discussed problems of Bulgarian healthcare, usually lack of healthcare for entire regions of the country. But right now we are in the absurd situation to discuss the closure of the National Pediatric Hospital in Sofia, Sofia!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u200	Mr. Boychev, the procedure was for me. I understand your procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u201	We already have a problem with providing health care in Sofia. What more is there to do? [[Applause from the BSP of Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u202	The weather, Mr. Boychev. Thank you. Time's up. I understand your remark, but I will continue to work as it says in the Rules. Mr. Svilensky. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u203	Colleagues, maybe two or three times the way you're doing it, because that's what you did. If you had accepted the proposal, there would have been two questions per group. [[Heckling]] No, it's a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u204	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u205	Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u206	Yes, Mr. Svilensky?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u207	We've been in this procedure for an hour. [[Reply by MP Daniela Daritkova.]] Yes, precisely Madam President, the group to which you belong is responsible for doing so in today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u208	It's not your fault. That's what the coworkers decided, and that's what they voted for.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u209	There is guilt and they must become clear because you have said several times that the debate has been postponed, that the hearing has been postponed. No, it was rejected twice with the votes of GERB twice, repeat. One time with 69 votes, the second time with 74 votes. Mr. Minister, these people, these MPs...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u210	To me, Mr. Slivensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u211	They don't trust you. You have heard the speeches on procedures in the manner of conduct that have been forced by the Rules, Madam President, which, at this moment, should not be respected at all when talking about the children of Bulgaria. Mr. Minister, with this support you see, not a single person from GERB's parliamentary group came out to protect you. With what you said nothing has been done, that it is coming, that you are waiting for the Prime Minister to give a million and 700 thousand. Lev...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u212	We're following the rules, aren't we, Mr. Svilensky?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u213	The only thing you can do, Mr. Minister, is to resign now and not to go any further to parliamentary control because there is no need, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u214	Mr. Svilensky...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u215	No answers to questions, no questions asked. The question is really much bigger now. It concerns your future as a minister, the future of healthcare, because this part of the House does not trust this part of the Chamber. You must now, after me, come out of this tribune and dignified, as a man you have always been...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u216	To me, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u217	The fact that we call you respectable is not because we don't respect you or because that's what the books say...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u218	Don't turn to the Minister, turn to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u219	...but because we really respect you and you're... [[National Representative Georgi Svilenski continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u220	Time's up. Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We're continuing with parliamentary control. The first question is from the MPs Georgi Mihaylov and Desislav Taskov on donor platforms for the purchase of medical equipment. Here you go, Mr. Taskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u221	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! About donating platforms for the purchase of medical equipment. Mr. Minister, in recent months the public has witnessed widespread donor platforms with different target directions. Some of them are aimed at buying kitchens for different compartments in the country. We believe that this is a base equipment that should in no way rely on donor initiatives. The fact that it has come to this is worrying. What measures will the Ministry of Health take to ensure the normal functioning of the neonatal wards in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u222	Here you are, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, Mr. Taskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u223	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihaylov and Dr. Taskov, children's health is a top priority in the sector. An important focus and step forward in the overall policy regarding care for children's health is also the adopted by the Council of Ministers National Programme for the Improvement of Motherhood and Child Health 2014-2020. Taking into account the fact that child care is an investment in future healthy generations, efforts to improve health services should be aimed at ensuring better and more timely access for all pregnant women and newborn children to high-tech specialised equipment and health services. In order to ensure optimal postpartum adaptation of newborn children and treatment of all pathological conditions occurring in the neonatal period, Regulation No 13 of 2014 on the establishment of medical standard In this regard, the Ministry of Health, as a specific beneficiary, has implemented a previously defined project No 4 "Improving the quality of prenatal diagnostics and neonatal care" financed under the Programme BG 07 "Initiatives for Public Health" financed by the Financial Mechanism of the European Economic Area and the Norwegian Mechanism. The main goal of the project was to reduce the number of children with congenital diseases and reduce child mortality in the country. The project improved the quality of prenatal diagnostics and neonatal care in each of the 28 districts in the country. The neonatology wards were modernized in 33 medical facilities in the country by purchasing and delivering 436 high-tech medical facilities. The qualification of medical specialists working in them was also increased. They were trained in the field of foetal morphology.. 124 specialists in obstetrics and gynecology. By Decree of the Council of Ministers No 121 of 2019 on the budget of the Ministry of Health for 2019 additional costs of 1 million were approved. $250,000. lv. for the purchase of medical equipment for the needs of children's healthcare in the country. With the funds will also be purchased devices for respiratory resuscitation and cavities. With my order RD-11-219 from 2019...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u224	Time, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u225	I'll continue after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u226	Thank you. Here's a line for you, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u227	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! We asked you that question for a reason. Now I am forced to say in a room several facts in child health that are very serious. You don't have to know this, but 10 out of 11 out of all newborn children are premature. This makes 6 thousand newborn children per year in Bulgaria. The first, which is very worrying, is that there is no register of premature children in Bulgaria. Only there are statistics, dear Minister, that for 2017. 279 children are stillborn who are assessed as premature. From there on, those who are born prematurely, what is their fate specific to each child, is the work of every Ministry of Health in the European Union, it is not over here. In addition to the fact that it is not finished, this whole initiative started exclusively talking about the qualities of the Bulgarian "how much he is ready to help his neighbor, it is a commendable initiative, but it cannot navigate, Mr. Minister, to the purchase of cuviots, which is a basic technological characteristic of all neonatological compartments. Open up to see that in Bulgaria there are cavities that are 20 years old, 40 years old! All this comes down to a number that is very disturbing. Open your data to your subordinate center "National Center for Public Health" to see what is the perinatal mortality in Bulgaria and how different it is from Europe! All of this, Minister, says that the Ministry of Health should address this problem, not leave it to charity initiatives, deal with it and solve it for the benefit of the Bulgarian children. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u228	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u229	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Professor Mihailov! All that you have said, we are convinced that we should have it as statistics and as a register and this will be part of the National Health Information System on which individual public procurement is running. You can be sure that we are pursuing this goal. On your second question with regard to the lawyers and the government to take up their commitments, I mentioned a little before that the Council of Ministers in May this year adopted by a decree of 1 million. $250,000. BGN, the public order for the delivery of breathing resuscitation apparatus and hollows in two positions is under way - delivery of non-invasive neonatal and nasal respirators for the needs of delivered and premature newborn children - 15 pcs, and delivery of incubators for special care for newborn children - 40 pcs. These numbers aren't random. We have consulted all the medical facilities that need this equipment and we have even provided a reserve if anything happens or there are any problems with the delivery itself with the individual apparatus. You can be sure that we have met all the requirements that currently have medical facilities. The public procurement is at the opening stage of offers and at the end of November 2019 I hope that this process will be completed. The medical equipment purchased will be provided to hospitals and to municipalities and I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that it will contribute to reducing child mortality in the country and improving the quality of neonatal care through modernization of neonatology wards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u230	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the second question by Georgi Mihailov and Desislav Taskov about the state of intensive care unit at the Multiprofile Hospital for active treatment of pulmonary diseases. Sofia "EAD." Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u231	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The reason for this question was written a letter which was sent to all members of the Health Commission about the state of the intensive care unit at the Hospital for Active Treatment of Lung Diseases. There has come to a severe personnel deficit which has become a personnel nightmare and all personnel decisions in this hospital regarding the solution of this problem, unfortunately, do not lead to its resolution. But this problem in this hospital is only part of the huge puzzle of problems that appear already avalanche in the severe personnel deficit with health care professionals, as some like to call them, I call them in the most normal way the nurses. I would like to hear and all of us: what are your measures to solve these problems not only on the territory of the Hospital, as you have been asked, but in the Republic of Bulgaria at all? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u232	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u233	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Professor Mihaylov and Dr. Taskov! The Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment of Pulmonary Diseases "St. Sofia "Sofia" is a medical institution with 100% state participation in capital, with the rights of the state in it being exercised by the Minister of Health. As a commercial company within the meaning of the Commercial Law and § 1, point 2 of the Law on Medical Institutions the same is managed and represented by its management bodies. The company is an independent legal entity and its management is a matter of management and skills of the selected management bodies, which are obliged with the care of a good trader to manage their entrusted company and in all their actions to be guided to the greatest extent by the protection of its interests. The management bodies of the medical institutions shall also implement the human resources management policy. It is within the competence of the Board of Directors of the company to define the organisational structure and to validate the internal regulatory framework of the medical establishment concerning the management of human resources in accordance with the legislation in force and Section IV of Regulation No 5 of 2019 on the establishment of standards for financial activity applied by state and municipal hospital care establishments and complex oncology centres, including with regard to the provision of clinics with the required number of medical professionals. In relation to the question you have asked, information from the Hospital and from the clinic of anesthesiology and intensive care, a structural unit at the Hospital, where two wards function.......................................................................................................................................................... According to the establishment schedule of the medical establishment in the Department of Anesthesiology and Intensive Treatment, 10 posts for nurses are provided. There are actually seven of them, of which two anesthesiological nurses. The compartment has experienced temporary difficulties due to an unforeseen illness of two nurses due to sick leave from 23 October 2019 to 8 November 2019. The management of the medical establishment informs us that timely action has been taken to ensure that four medical professionals are appointed as follows: from 1 November, 18 November, from 25 November and the last issue, the last medical professional will be appointed on 1 December, with which the personnel problem at the hospital has already been resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u234	Thank you, dear Minister. For a cue, Mr. Mihailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u235	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! As a doctor with many years of practice, I dare tell you that despite the orders you have cited, the problem with nurses' personnel deficit in Bulgaria is extremely severe. I quite rightly did not quote you as to the age of the sisters who are detailed and conscientiously described in a letter. 74 years old, Minister, is one of them. This problem is, like many others, in health care. It is good that after you called as the principal of this medical establishment, no matter what the condition was, when we wrote to you this letter, the problems there were partially solved, but the problems in Bulgaria were not solved. The problems in Bulgaria will not be solved now through this National Framework Treaty with the way it is constructed, and they will deepen. Many of the hospitals, especially the municipal ones, cannot respond with their capabilities, as their funding is now being constructed, to the increase in wages, Mr. Minister, and to the nurses. I therefore urge you to think seriously, to seek political consensus in Parliament, to consider all possibilities, because the way the system is now functioning will lead early and not late to much, much more serious care than we have and have at the moment. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u236	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Mr. Secretary? You're not gonna use the back. Thank you. Question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova on exempted supplies according to art. 39, p. 1 of the Health Value Added Tax Act. Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u237	Thank you, Madam President. However, Dear Minister, together with Professor Gechev this year in parliamentary control, we put two questions to the Ministry of Finance related to payments, value added tax from the function. The first question from the Ministry of Finance has been answered, I quote: The requested information cannot be provided by the National Revenue Agency. The second question from the same Ministry states, I quote, "In 2016 the companies that have also carried out economic activities under CID 86 "Human health care" paid VAT of 13 million. Four hundred and sixty BGN 874 for 2017 respectively. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal 776 thousand. 937 BGN, and for 2018 The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible 202,000. BGN 566 However, according to art. 39 t. 1 of the Value Added Tax Act, the carrying out of health (medical) services and services directly related thereto provided by health institutions and nurseries under the Health Act and by health institutions under the Medical Services Act, are supplied delivery. Mr. Minister, please answer my question: what is included in the scope of art. 39, p. 1 of the Value Added Tax Act concerning exempted transactions relating to healthcare and included medicinal products, medical devices, aids, devices and facilities for disabled persons outside the scope of compulsory health insurance financed by public financial resources, and what is the possibility that they can be fully exempt from value added tax and that tax will remain in the medical establishments so that they can benefit from it, including for raising the salaries of doctors, nurses and other health professionals engaged in professional activity in the sector?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u238	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u239	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Naydenova, your question must be important. You must expect the answer to be specific, but I think the address to the question is wrong, and I'll tell you why. I would like to inform you that matters relating to the government's tax policy, including your question: what is included in the scope of art. 39, para. 1 of the VAT Act concerning exempted health-related transactions and whether they include medicinal products, medical devices, aids, devices and facilities for disabled persons outside the scope of compulsory health insurance financed by public financial resources and what is the possibility to be fully exempt from VAT and to increase the salaries of doctors, dentists, nurses and other health professionals in the professional realization in the sector of the health care minister, are outside the rights, competences and powers of the Minister of Health. Your question can only be addressed by ministries and departments, whose prerogative is the interpretation of tax laws, including the VAT Act. Because of the above, I could not comment on your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u240	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Naydenova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u241	Dear Minister, I have been waiting for this answer, but I want to tell you this. It is directed at you to remind you that, in a good review of the law, the Special Value Added Tax Act, and in this particular article concerning medical services, reserves could be found to be used both by the Ministry, respectively, by the state budget, and by the budget of the NHIF indirectly, so that we can find the necessary financial resources and meet the needs of health care. It is simply a matter of pointing to your attention, and I believe that with your competence you will find a shortcut to the Ministry of Finance and you would consider whether we, as MPs, can help.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u242	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. We proceed to the next question, last for Minister Ananiev. Question from the MPs Desislav Taskov, Georgi Yordanov and Georgi Mihaylov regarding the relocation of the Metadon program from the territory of the University Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. Anna is in Sofia. Here you go, Mr. Taskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u243	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Following the transfer of the Center for the Treatment of Drug addicts and Metadonian Program to the State Psychiatric Hospital for the Treatment of Drug Addiction and Alcoholism on the territory of the University Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. In Sofia, you met with protesters from the district of Mladost and explained to them that the situation is temporary. I ask for your explanation three months later: will the drug treatment centre be moved, when and where? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u244	Thank you, dear Mr. Taskov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u245	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihaylov, associate professor Yordanov and Dr. Taskov, the treatment program for opioid-dependent agonists and agonists is the first state programme in Bulgaria to support methadone therapy, which started in the distant 1995 as the only effective alternative for treatment of heroin dependence. Over the years, more than 900 patients have been treated under the Programme. Many specialists have also been trained in the treatment of addicts in Sofia and throughout the country, and in the field of psychologists, psychologists, nurses and social workers. At the time of treatment with the medicinal product methadone were 194 heroin-dependent patients. Most of the patients who enter the program are with very chronic and untreated somatic and mental diseases. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, heroin addiction is a disease and it must be treated and treated under the same medical conditions as other sick people are treated. The move of the so-called Metadonian program to the State Psychiatric Hospital for the Treatment of Drug Addiction and Alcoholism by the Ministry of Health provides a suitable building. It has very good communication accessibility to public transport, far from residential buildings, kindergartens, schools and playgrounds. The renovation of the premises is currently being carried out in order to adapt them to this type of medical activity and to create good working conditions. The renovation works will be completed on 16 December 2019 and the relocation will take place by 25 December 2019 on the eve of Christmas holidays.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u246	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Taskov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u247	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I believe that, and as a doctor, I am obliged to say against the background of what you have said, I believe that, apart from trying to help people who are actually struggling to restore their lives, we must also be tolerant, even, I would say, to raise in tolerance. However, this should not be done through opposition, on the one hand, to people's fears about the security of their children, property, property, and, on the other hand, to people who really need not only help but also understanding, I would say, even to restore their personal dignity. In your interview on October 24th, you said that the corresponding amount was intended not only for an appropriate place, although I did not hear where it was, but also to prepare a building, which, I quote: to meet all the requirements, to be specially adapted to the Metadon program, which I am convinced actually results, this is so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u248	Thank you, dear Mr. Taskov. I thank Minister Ananiev for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We move on to questions to Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. She will answer a question from the MP Lyubomir Bonev about the water crisis in Pernik municipality. Here you go, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u249	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs Avramova, Minister, honourable Members! My question is about the water crisis in the municipality of Pernik, and I will specifically name the settlements that are also in water mode: the town of Bàtanovtsi, the village of Divotino, the village of Lyulin, Meshtitsa, Montenegro, Bogdànov dol, Buchino, Leskovets. These are settlements on the territory of Pernik municipality. Minister, at present we are all aware of the water crisis and regime in Pernik municipality. The municipality has faced an unprecedented water regime for the past 25 years, the former is 1993. More than two months ago, on September 20th, it was from this tribune that we asked you the question of the hidden and, at that time, a clear water regime of Pernik municipality. Your response then made it clear that this was a normal process due to drought during the season, lack of precipitation and other facts and circumstances independent of the water company and the district governor, who is Chairman of the Association on Water and Water in Pernik. Since then, there have been enough facts that show in one way or another that neither the Water and Water Department, nor the former mayor of the municipality, nor the district governor, have taken adequate measures to inform the residents of the municipality of Pernik of the forthcoming water regime. In this regard, and as Minister of Regional Development and Principle of the Water Company in Pernik, I ask you to answer the question: what measures do you plan to prevent the water regime in Pernik Municipality and how will the management of water volumes run in Studena Dam? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u250	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. You have the answer, Mrs Avramova, within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u251	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Bonev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The total volume of the dam is 25,2 million. Cube. m is designed as a one-year leveller, which means that the dam collects water coming from the water district within a year, for which the dam provides water supply in the serviced area in the town of Pernik, the town of Batanovtsi and the surrounding villages. "Studena" dam is on the list of complex and significant dams for which the consumption of water quantities is carried out according to approved by the Minister of Environment and Waters a monthly schedule drawn up in accordance with art. 53 of the Water Act. The monthly schedule shall be drawn up taking into account the up-to-date information on the condition of the dam in the previous month, the strategy set by the annual timetable, the forecast of the expected inflow, hydrometeorological situation and the assessment of requests in the monthly request by the holders of the water collection permits. Monthly schedules shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Environment and Water and shall be publicly available. By my order of November 12th, a team of experts with different competences was formed to carry out an inspection in the town of Pernik, in connection with the operation of the dam and the hydroelectric plant to it for the period from 1 January to the date of the inspection. In the course of the verification, it is established that the water supply operator has acted in accordance with the provisions of Regulation No 4 on the conditions and arrangements for the accession of consumers, such as in the event of drying or severe reduction of the flow of water sources, operators shall notify the territorial authorities of the executive authority and propose to take action to introduce a water use regime and/or limits of water consumption, or restriction of water use, such as the prohibition of using drinking water for irrigation, watering of green areas, street washing, motor vehicles and others. Here we can take account of delays in the activities of the water operator, although on his part there are letters from April, August, October to the district governor. So that's the kind of information she did in the proper way. At present, the Ministry is exploring all possibilities for solving the problem of the introduced regime. On 18 November, in the short term, the possibilities for optimal use of available water sources, supply dams, are considered. The Ministry requested information on the availability of free water quantities from the water supply system operated by the Ministry of Sofia, located on the territory of the Nature Park, Vitosha and which could be transferred to the town of Pernik. For discussion of the topic were held meetings with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Water, Sofia, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Here I would like to thank the experts of the Sofia water for the assistance they have provided, the measures that the water supply in the next few days will implement and there will be additional amounts of water from the Vladai Canal, which will be directed to the reservoir of Studena. I'll add my answer to the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u252	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Madam Minister, the chronology is as follows: April the water company informs the mayor of Pernik municipality and the district governor as Chairman of the Water Association. On September 20th, we asked a question from the National Assembly stands addressed to you about the hidden or already apparent water regime in the town of Pernik. A hundred thousand people have suffered from this water regime! On 9 October 2019, the manager of the water company informed the district manager as Chairman of the Water Association, the mayor of Pernik Municipality, acting at present because of the election campaign, and the President of the Municipal Council that the management regime of the town of Pernik and the settlements around the town are coming. I ask you, Minister: did this correspondence and this mix of carelessness, irresponsibility, most responsible, lead to a water crisis Pernik? To transfer responsibility between the ministries of the Regional and MoEWs is at least not appropriate. Yes, it is commendable that measures are being taken. It is commendable that attempts are being made through the Sofia water. And the prime minister gave funds to the town of Pernik at such a critical time, and the State Reserve gave it away, but why did it come to this? Who, how and why did you let this happen? This is the basis of our question. Yes, it is necessary to repair the wall, it is necessary and we will be happy to have a water cycle in the town of Pernik, because the town of Pernik is the only district town without such a water cycle. I ask you again and I want you to say clearly: within the limits of the powers of which institution the manager of the water service is Pernik, the mayor of the municipality of Pernik at that time of notification, the governor of the district [[the chairman gives a sign that time has run out]] , the questions concerning the humanitarian and social catastrophe, all its aspects must be known precisely and clearly, where is the responsibility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u254	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope you'll give me a little more time because the subject is up-to-date, and the residents of Pernik need to know what measures are being taken. Mr. Bonev asked an up-to-date question that I would like to finish as an answer. Another measure which is identified as short-term and urgent for implementation, which I consider necessary, is to have a more effective water supply regime to consumers within a day to regulate the use of water in the city in order to reduce losses and accidents on the water network. On 22 November, a letter was sent to the mayor of Pernik with a proposal for water supply to consumers in the time range from 15.00 to 22.00, i.e. the introduction of a single water use regime. With the introduction of this water supply regime, the number of accidents arising from hydraulic shocks on the depreciated water supply network and the loss of water will result in the accumulation of water in the city's tanks. The mayor of Pernik municipality has issued a more polite order, with which the regime is twice a day. I hope that he will reconsider his decision so that we can preserve the water that is currently in the dam. In connection with the implementation of the emergency measures, as you mentioned last week, a meeting between the mayor of Pernik municipality and the prime minister decided to grant 2.7 million. lv. of the municipality of Pernik, for which the Water and Water Department of Pernik, has prepared a project. The project is related to the reconstruction of the sedimenters of the drinking water treatment plant, which serves Pernik and the surrounding villages. This would ensure the quality of drinking water, including in the case of reduced volume of the dam. In the process of meetings and talks with experts, it was reported that samples were also taken to do research on the Dam of Dolna Dikanya (Dolna Dikanya) and the Dam (Oslome) so that if we had the opportunity, we could make technical measures with which we could have a backup option. We do not yet have the final results of the second sampling. The main reason for the large losses of water, as you mentioned, is the poor operating and technical condition of the water supply system. Due to the lack of funds, no significant repairs and reconstructions of the existing plumbing network have been carried out for a long time. Unfortunately, such activities have not been implemented with European funds during the previous programming period, which significantly deepens the deterioration of the water supply network. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works held a number of meetings with experts, geologists, hydrologists, water engineers, sleepers, several options for providing additional water. There is an upcoming preparation and presentation of official proposals by the experts with whom we have spoken, and these proposals will be subject to discussion at expert level. It will be decided which of them are possible to implement and, in the short term, which would lead to actions that could lead to the supply of additional quantities of water. In the longer term, the main measure is precisely reducing the losses in the plumbing network. You know that the water and water supply company Pernik already has a project with which he has applied and has a contract for financing under Operational Programme "Environment" and the biggest investments are for water supply. For the municipality of Pernik they are 22 million. lv. and include: reconstruction of the main water mains of the East, the water mains of the district of Sztok and the construction of three new water basins and their water mains; reconstruction of two pump stations of Samokov and Mogilce. These are key sites with the realization of which water loss will be reduced dramatically so that the dam can absorb consumption. The water supply system has been informed by Pernik that an organization is in place to implement the water supply regime. Stopping the water supply from the dam is taken from Studena (Studena) for the settlements that have alternative water sources, which was done first in the quarter of the church. In accordance with the expected characteristics of the treated water at lower levels in the dam, higher turbidity, higher iron content, the plant facilities of the treatment plant are prepared for these technological support processes. I will conclude by saying that the water regime was necessary and was introduced by the mayor of Pernik. I appeal for the responsible use by consumers, even in this damaged water supply, for the responsible use of water by the whole public. We are all sympathetic to the way drinking water is used. We need to be understanding at the moment when these effective measures of water supply are imposed, so that there is water in the dam until the spring snow melt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u256	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. I'm gonna have to be a little more strict about the next questions. There is a question from the National Representative Nikolay Ivanov on the progress in the development of the Operational Programme for Regional Development and other programmes financed by the European Structural and Investment Funds. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u257	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! During the first two programming periods the Operational Programme for the Regions was accessible and a very important financial instrument for municipalities. This resource changed the living environment, renewed road infrastructure, helped the development of tourism, social services, modernised education infrastructure. During each period, the criteria for access to this financial instrument were different. Of course, there were restrictions and gaps in planning, which either limited the territorial scope, such is the example of the so-called white spots in urban areas, or did not provide a sufficiently balanced approach to the differences in the socio-economic development of development areas. The new mandate in local self-government is beginning and it is of great importance for the continued development of municipalities and regions that this financial instrument will be used maximum in the next four years. In this regard, my question to you is: at what stage is the planning and programming of the new regional development financial instruments for the next programming period 2021 - 2027 financed by the European Structural and Investment Funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u258	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. You have the answer, Mrs Avramova, within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u259	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The main objective of the regional development policy in Bulgaria, which will be reflected in the new Operational Programme for the Development of the Regions 2021 - 2027, is to create viable, strong and sustainable regions as a response to adverse demographic trends and deepening of regional and regional differences. The need to implement an integrated territorial approach aimed at creating a polycentric development model that works for sustainable and balanced growth of Bulgarian regions, thus reaching the average level for the European Union in the near future. During the preparation for the new programming period, a report on the socio-economic analysis of the regions in Bulgaria will be prepared to prepare the new Operational Program. The name composition of the thematic working group for the development of the Operational Programme for the Development of Regions for the period 2021 is defined. The first meeting of the Thematic Working Group was held on 15 November. At the meeting is presented an approach to structuring the new operational programme, according to which the Programme will focus on two main priorities for sustainable urban development of major cities, as well as for development of the territory at regional level. Developed project of the Programme is expected at the end of March 2020. During the preparation for the new programming period a report on the socio-economic analysis of the regions in Bulgaria will be prepared to prepare the new operational programme. The development of regional spatial development schemes for level 2 regions will be undertaken to fulfil the role of a strategy for implementing the................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... At the end of 2019 the Ministry will have a ready-made draft of the regional spatial development schemes for level 2 regions which will be subjected to wide public consultation and consultation. Parallelly, an update of the National Concept of Space Development is being drawn up, which will also be used in the process of programming the new operational programme. The draft programme is expected to be finalised in 2020 and submitted for discussion by the Coordination Council in the management of EU funds. The programme must be approved by the Council of Ministers before it is sent for approval to the European Commission. Regarding the programmes for European territorial cooperation in implementation of Decree No 142 of 7 June 2019 of the Council of Ministers for the development of the strategic and programming documents of the Republic of Bulgaria, with orders of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works of the Months June and October 2019 were appointed representatives of the Republic of Bulgaria in the name composition of the Thematic Working Group for the development of joint programmes with the Republic of Romania, the Republic of Northern Macedonia, the Republic of Turkey, the Republic of Serbia for the period 2021. The programming process was opened with the first meetings of the working groups concerned. The programmes discussed and approved rules, plan-graphic for the development of project documents and joint programming concepts that reflect the vision of the countries participating in the programmes for the period.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u260	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u261	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. In it, you said that the main focus of the future programme "Regions in growth" will be the integrated territorial distribution of investments according to the needs of the area concerned and will seek an integrated effect. Of course, it is important what will be the economic contribution of each project and its benefit to the citizens of the region or municipality concerned. I welcome this, this is a good approach. I'm worried about something else. You know very well that I am a Member of Parliament from the Vrachanski Election Region from the least developed region, Northwestern. For the people in it and for the municipalities it is extremely important to finally separate themselves from the bottom, to reduce the negative effect of the severe demographic crisis, the huge socio-economic differences within the region between small and large settlements with the rest of the country and in Europe to begin to melt. Therefore, it is extremely important how this will be achieved with the new programme for the regions. You said that new integrated territorial strategies with broad civic participation were to be developed, and there was also media information about the outcome of the first meeting of the working group, and you just mentioned that an update of the National Concept of Space Development is coming. This planning process together with the discussion of the new vision of the Programme in the working group and the whole long way to the approval of the Council of Ministers and the European Commission create a risk of delay and deprivation of municipalities and regions from this resource during a serious part of the new mandate of the local authorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u262	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor for the duvet, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u263	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, in addition to what I have said so far, I will add that when developing the new operational programme, focus will be sought precisely on the specific geographical characteristics and resources of the territory in order to achieve a better result, given the local potentials. This would lead to a reduction in imbalances and a slowdown in the migration process. In particular, I would like to say that the allocation of funds across the regions will also be balanced, so that we are looking for the development of less developed regions, such as the Northwestern region. The new approach that we will apply in the implementation of the Operational Programme will enable us to invest not only in cities, but in the whole territory and implement measures that are a set of activities that can be funded by several programmes, including soft measures such as a complex project, the aim of which should be the development of the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u264	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. There is a question from the MP Dora Yankova about the winter maintenance of the state roads. You have the floor, Mrs. Yankova, two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u265	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Mr. Minister of Culture! My question, Madam Minister, every year is about the winter maintenance of state roads. We're in a hibernation period. In the Rhodopes last week, a little snow fell, but the snow is expected to be across the country next week. Bulgarian citizens, companies and institutions have a desire here, from the platform of parliament, the Minister of Regional Development as the principal of this policy to share is the state ready to function in winter conditions and what has the Ministry led you? Parallel to this is the question: Have all the talks been held in institutionally? Smolyan's District headquarters just finished. Is this done as a stick and coordination in all areas? Is there enough capacity in the companies you've chosen? Particularly for an area such as Smolyan, it is imperative that rotors and graders are available. Is there enough sanding material? Last week, when the roads cooled down, it turned out to be a lot of problems and accidents, and this is also part of this policy. For this reason, I have put my question to your attention and I expect an answer today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u266	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Yankova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The winter maintenance of the Republican Road Network has been implemented by order of the Chairman of the Management Board of the Agency. According to preliminary estimates in the maintenance of 20,000. km of Republican roads during the winter months will be mobilized around three thousand snow-cleaning machines, snowplows, sand spray technique and others. All preparatory, administrative and organisational activities related to securing winter maintenance are implemented. In view of the actions taken by the state bodies responsible for ensuring normal passage of vehicles under winter conditions, we can say that, to date, the necessary organisation has been established. A Plan for the activities of the Road Infrastructure Agency is set up to ensure the winter maintenance of the Republican Road Network for the season 2019. All regional road stations have prepared their winter maintenance plans, which are coordinated and approved. Plans for actions under aggravated winter conditions have been developed. They are provided to road support companies to prepare operational plans for winter maintenance. The commitments of all institutions are clearly defined and specified: the Road Infrastructure Agency, the Directorate-General of National Police, the Directorate-General of Fire Safety and Population Protection and the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration. Interagency headquarters has been established to improve coordination between structures. The order for this has also been prepared and the persons responsible are familiar with it. The composition of the Agency's headquarters has also been updated. Regional meetings were held at which, in addition to the regional road management and representatives of the Road Infrastructure Agency, employees of the Ministry of Interior and the National System 112. On 4 October all district road departments in the country carried out a verification of the available equipment, inerts at the supporting points. On October 31st, a second check was carried out on road support companies with representatives of regional road management, Sofia Directorate of Home Affairs, Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior. Over 83,000 were secured. Ton of salt, 112 thousand. tons of sand, 3340 tonnes of chemical materials to process the pavement to ensure the safe travel of drivers. Currently, over 1800 machines are ready to process road pavements. In the period 25 November, a third verification of the road support companies by the district road authorities was carried out for the presence of the required quantities of aggregates and machinery. On 19 November, by order of the Chairman of the Road Infrastructure Agency, the order for collecting and processing information on the state of the Republican roads during winter maintenance was regulated to make it available to citizens in due time and time. There is also a contract with the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology to provide weather data. The directors of the 27 district road stations are ordered to monitor with increased attention the forecasts by districts and to take the necessary action to process the floorings in the high-mountain areas and the passageways where there are prerequisites, as you have noted, for slippery and icy areas. At the same time, a National Coordination Centre for Safe Roads was established, which will make the connection and interaction between the structures of the executive power.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u268	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Yankova, within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u269	Dear Mr. Chairman! Madam Minister, I'd like to draw your attention. You say: the technique has been checked repeatedly. At the moment, the contracts that have entered into the Road Infrastructure Agency with road support companies, as you know, you have a shift, they are still moving them to the areas. I would like to address you with this: yes, you are being consulted, but be extremely strict, because very often the construction companies you choose to maintain roads, at this time they and build. There are some loops in which people see opportunities not to maintain the roads enough. This one first. Secondly, I would like to address you because for the first time in the Smolyan region last year all three passes were closed. Certainly check if there are rotors and graders, because I commented earlier: there is no information on the list of operation of Smolyan region, the company that has won the maintenance, whether this technique has been driven. And something that's being commented in my constituency. The new company, which has concluded a contract, the company "Travel Support Smolyan" District, for five years with 18.1 million. BGN is from two companies. One company will receive 2% for preventive activities in winter road maintenance, and the other 98%, which will receive the company "Groma Hold" Ltd. We all know this is Agromach. Agromach is a construction company, but smolyanchani do not understand about the company, which is 2%, with capital 10 BGN. and trade in cigarettes, there is also restaurant, hotel, and construction. Here they start asking the question: what are these 2%? Watch these things, ask them to inform you, and it is good from the stands to distract, if there is a doubt of loading with these 2% for another, to share them for exactly what they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u270	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Here you go, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Yankova, I understand your question and concern about road maintenance, especially in your area. I would like to reassure you that there is a contract, yes, a new contract of 20 November 2019. The new maintenance contractor and winter maintenance have submitted an operational plan to Regional Road Management, there is a winter maintenance order issued, so winter maintenance will be ensured. I cannot comment on the consortium and how the companies in it have distributed their activities and work. The fact is that this consortium as such has contractual commitments with the Road Infrastructure Agency and must comply with them strictly. I personally undertake to monitor the performance of the contract in Smolyan region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u272	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. There is a question from the MP Vasil Antonov about the water regime in Pleven district. Here you are, Mr. Antonov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u273	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the Parliament, honourable Ministers! The issue I am going to raise is of utmost importance to each of the citizens of Pleven and Pleven region, and this is for the water regime, Madam Minister. In the last few months, the population of Pleven and Pleven district, while in Lovech and Lovech region, have been placed on acute regime. In Pleven and Pleven region the regime is from 0.00 to 5.00 and very often from 22.00 to 6.00. This is for three months and despite the rains in the last days no change in this regime has occurred. We know that the water supply for Pleven and Pleven region is from the rivers Cherni Osam and Kraevitsa, and also the water fields that are around the Vit River. We have seen how it is managed and how it is removed from the mouth of the river Vit gravel and ballast in the last few days and weeks. The result of all that we see is an acute regime, a genocide against the population of Pleven and Lovech region. Please, Madam Minister, as Minister, but also as a person to answer: how do we get out of this situation? How and how will we stop the water regime of the poor water for which the population of Pleven and Pleven district pays a high and expensive price? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u274	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Antonov, administrative district of Pleven includes ten municipalities of Belene, Cherven Bryag, Lower Metropolis, Dolni Dubnik, Gulyantsi, Iskar, Levski, Nikopol, Pleven and Pordym with total area of 4338 sq. km and population 240 380 inhabitants according to data from the National Statistical Institute. Water supply for drinking purposes is carried out by underground water sources in the terraces of the rivers Iskar, Beth and Osam and their tributaries, as well as by the upper currents of the tributaries of the river Cherni Osam and the river Zlatna Panega in the region of Lovech. The most important water supply system Black Osam provides water supply for the cities of Pleven, Lower Metropolis and Trastenik and several villages in the territory of Pleven district, Lovech and Troyan towns and several villages in the territory of Lovech district. The capacity of the water supply is changed from 900. 1000 liters per second to 200. 300 liters per second. The water quantities are distributed by the Water and sewerage Water and sewerage Water and sewerage and the town of Troyan and the town of Pleven. At a sufficient flow rate of the water source approximately half of the water quantity is fed to the settlements in Pleven district and the rest is distributed between the cities of Lovech and Troyan. We point out that at least 200 liters per second are needed to ensure continuity of water supply for settlements in Pleven district from the water supply system. Typically, the period during which the water source capacity is reduced lasts not less than three months during the year and may reach six months in dry years. During the current year due to prolonged drying the water supply flow rate for drinking water is reduced to values close to the minimum. The water operator has reacted in due time, submitted information to the interested parties and, as of 15 September 2019, a water supply regime has been introduced to enable them to withstand the water sources so that there is water for a longer period of time a timely reaction of the water operator. As a result of the precipitation in the last days, the water flow rate of the water supply has increased and with effect from 25 November 2019 the water regime in the affected settlements of Pleven region, as well as in the city itself, has been cancelled. The measures for improving the water supply and sustainability of the provision of water services in the territory of the administrative district of Pleven are defined in the developed pre-investment studies and regional general plans, and after a change of the border of the separate territory served by the Water and Water and Water Services, which from 1 January 2019 also joined the settlements of Knezha Municipality, it was possible to finance projects with funds from the Operational Programme. In this regard, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has already signed with the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme a contract to finance the preparation of regional pre-investment studies for six administrative areas. Including Pleven region is included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u276	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u277	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, all that you have said is so, it is known. Some more things can be added to it, for example, the great losses of the plumbing due to the old pipes, water stops, pressure changes, frequent accidents. But the truth is what you said from three to six months each year the population of Pleven region and Lovech region are in mode. If you think that's normal, I don't think that's normal. There is no way to convince people that the high prices they pay, and the poor quality of the water they receive is normal, and not only in these six months, when there is a regime, it is also through others. There is another fact that we should not leave aside the question of the supply of these two areas is extremely difficult and it is not within the power of the two water companies. The difference with Pernik there was a question of management, of water management, here the water is simply gone. To have water, you have to build the dam. We have to build this dam. It's not in people's power to take on this huge expense that's for the dam. Another argument is that if we hold on to the development of North and Central Bulgaria there is no way for this to happen in the absence of water supply in Pleven and Lovech region. Even if it becomes a highway, it will not be attractive in this part for the companies and investors we expect for the population because there is no water. Nobody's coming where there's no water. It's a fact. Several times the question of the construction of the dam is raised. A delicate theme was once stopped in 1989 and 1990, the second time around 2000 the issue was moved, but it stopped. It is not within the powers of both regions to resolve this issue. This is a matter which must be resolved by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, and it should be activated in the direction of design, because there are some old projects, to see how necessary it is, but to act on the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister. The topic is very sensitive to the population because it must be compensated in a dignified and legitimate way so that it is in the interests of the whole region, in the interests of the whole of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u278	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Antonov, I absolutely agree with you that the measures must be long-term and the problem of water shortages in the dry months of the year must be solved. What I mentioned at the end of my response was about regional pre-investment studies. This is the way on which we will allow to apply by water operators and attract funds from the European Union so that we can implement measures both for the water supply network that is depreciated and other activities that are necessary to ensure the quality of drinking water and prevent its waste. You are absolutely right about the implementation of the Black Osam Dam project. The Ministry has a commitment and works on such projects. These are: Studena Dam, where we renovated the dam and other activities necessary for its operation; Luda Yana Dam, which even with problems in the implementation of the construction itself, is still a commitment that is poet and will be built; Plovdivtsi Dam, which has already been put into operation. So the Ministry and the government have taken measures such as a long-term programme in which to build dams, such as you know, have not been built in the last probably more than 30 years, so as to ensure and ensure the water supply of settlements. After the implementation of these dams we will proceed to other territories in Bulgaria, where this needs to be implemented. Black Osam Reservoir is one of the dams that is in the focus of the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u280	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. There is a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov concerning the major repair of the second-class Republican road II-66 on the territory of Stara Zagora district and in particular in its part from km 70.9 (Bogomilovo village) to km 92.3 (linking with highway Here you are, Mr. Gokov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! Madam Minister, my question is about once. I avoid asking questions about the state of roads and so on, because basically I know what the answer is, and I understand that the direction can only be that way, but in this case it is about an extremely important road for Stara Zagoras. This is Republic road II-66, a second-class road, part of the Republican road network. It crosses the territory of the districts of Sliven, Stara Zagora and Plovdiv, 127 km long. It is important to say that it is part of the European road E-773. In Stara Zagora region enters at km 37,1 and passes through the village of Podslon and reaches the eastern part of the town of Stara Zagora. It surrounds from south and south the town and south of the village of Bogomilovo, passes through the village of Rakitnitsa, surrounds from southeast, south and south-west the town of Chirpan, passes through the village of Fertrovitovo and the village of Mirovo, then continues in the western direction. The part of this second-class Republican road, which passes through Stara Zagora district, is in poor operating condition, especially from km 70 to km 92.3, which is from the village of Bogomilovo to the connection of the highway Why is it so important this time? Because Stara Zagora is deprived of a second approach to the Trakiya highway and Stara Zagoras use it as such a second way out. The road became very up-to-date when the only overpass over the railway line in Stara Zagora was closed and the stream was redirected to this road. It is currently in extremely poor condition, despite the intense flow, despite the temporary or partial road repairs that are taking place. Given that the roads have a direct bearing on both the active and passive safety of the foreground, the question arises: does the Road Infrastructure Agency provide for a major repair of the second-class Republican road II-66 on the territory of Stara Zagora, including with the construction of road facilities such as circular movements and so on, and in what deadlines can this happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u282	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. You have the floor to answer, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u283	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Gokov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, the inhabitants of Stara Zagora use Republican road II-66 The section has a length of 18.5 km and is in unsatisfactory transport condition. The road has not been renovated since 1994, and traffic on this area is extremely busy. In 2019 the Road Infrastructure Agency commissioned the development of a technological project for preventive repair of 18.4 km from the second-class road in the section of km 72+624 at the village of Bogomilovo to km 91+093 road hub. The project provides: road surface repair, drainage, landscape shaping, new horizontal marking, road signs and restricted road systems. According to the Ordinance of 12 November 2012 on the maintenance and repair of roads, the preventive maintenance of roads includes a complex of planned and cost-effective works and construction works to preserve and reduce the effects of aging and wear of materials. In view of this, I inform you that the construction works that will be performed as part of the preventive repair on route II-66 will only be carried out on the existing route, such as the construction of new facilities, including circular intersections, are not foreseen, as the implementation of such works must, firstly, be assessed the need to then assign the design of a technical project, implement estrangement procedures and entrust them with their implementation. With the implementation of these repair activities, the operational status of the road section will be significantly improved and safe traffic conditions will be provided along the route. At present, the project has been prepared and agreed with the Institute of Roads and Bridges. Quantitative accounts for the execution of the construction works are in the Regional Road Management "Stara Zagora," working on their valuation and preparation of a job. The indicative value for the implementation of the project is approximately 12 million. lv. with VAT. The site is considered opportunities for providing targeted funds from the state budget and its implementation in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u284	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u285	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen ministers, fellow Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. As my colleagues here provoked me by sitting in my seat, according to the Road Infrastructure Agency, Stara Zagora has four connections with the highway "Trakiya" at 174th km Chirpan-west, at 184th km Chirpan-east or "Freedom", at 208th km Stara Zagora. In my opinion, this is the only road connection with the highway, and at 240th km Nova Zagora. I am not going to argue whether these links are with the highway of Trakia. I will only say that this time was extremely important before making the connection of the highway with Stara Zagora or Rice, where it had reached, to the sea. He lost this purpose as a main road for moving from Sofia to the sea after the highway was built. But it remains extremely important for 150 "200,000 Stara Zagoras" and so much so that more guests of Stara Zagora, who very intensively use this time as a link with the highway "all who travel west, to Sofia and to Europe, say. We need to pay more attention to him. Must have been estimated, maybe 12 million. lv. It's not too much for one such time, but the expectations of Stara Zagoras are a little different. They have been waiting ten years for the other one to be made, the real connection to the highway, despite the thousands of promises. Stara Zagora's expectations for this time we are talking about are to be made if not a speed road, then a very well functioning and in a good operational state road to provide them with the connection to the highway. I think the expectations of the local authorities are different for this time too. When I talk about road facilities, such as circular movements and so on, are really necessary because it will be an alternative road on the highway, all the more so that you know what state the Chirpan section of Stara Zagora is in, and a little further. People prefer, instead of moving at the odd 90-mile limit, to go this way. So it is extremely important and expectations are great. I don't think what the Road Infrastructure Agency is proposing is going to satisfy Stara Zagoras, including local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u286	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. You don't want a doppelganger. We move on to the next question from the National Representative Manol Genov concerning the need for an extension of the ring road of the city of Plovdiv, including road III-805, section of road I-8 Pazardzhik Here you are, Mr. Genov. You have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u287	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! The Chairman correctly listed all the sections here. My question is related to the design and construction of this extremely important section of the Republican road network, because it is one of the busiest in the country. Those of our colleagues and citizens who have traveled along it know very well how screaming the need for its expansion is. Main repairs in the years do not remember being done.. very soon, some current repairs are being done, some areas are being patched up, congestion is daily. Very often there are traffic accidents with major material damage, injured, killed. I recently learned from the media that a design procedure has been announced, which includes all the necessary actions to begin the construction of this section. My question is to predict: when will these design procedures be completed, with the approval of technical projects, and when will the construction of this important section of the Republican road network start?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u288	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. You have the floor to answer, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u289	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Genov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The implementation of the ring road of the town of Plovdiv is essential for the region and is important for the development of the industrial zone and its connection with the city. Over the years, the Road Infrastructure Agency has been working to find solutions to modernise road arteries that form the road around the road (road III-805 and road II-86) to reduce travel time and increase traffic safety. In October this year the Road Infrastructure Agency announced a public procurement for a technical project and a detailed development plan a parcel plan for the site of the town of Plovdiv............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The indicative value of the order is 3 million. $750,000. lv. without VAT and is financed by the Agency's budget. The order is in three separate positions. The deadline for submission of tenders shall be 9 December 2019 and their opening will be 10 December 2019. The specified time limits in the order include only the time for carrying out project research work. In response to your previous question, I informed you that the contract concluded in 2012 for the development of an ideal and technical project for the ring road of the city of Plovdiv with "TRAFIK HOLDING" Ltd. was terminated due to a change of the overall concept of the project related to the services of the adjacent urbanized territories. In the period 2013 - 2017 a procedure was implemented under the Law on Environmental Protection and the Investment Purpose of the Road Infrastructure Agency (IAS) a decision on environmental impact assessment (EIA) of 2017. In June this year a working meeting was held with representatives of the Agency, the regional administration of Plovdiv district, the municipalities of Plovdiv, Maritsa and Rhodope, as well as other interested parties, which discussed the investment intentions to build a ring road in Plovdiv. On the basis of the information received and the underlying problems, a task was created to prepare a technical project and to develop a detailed development plan. For separate position No 1.. the need to separate the sections from km 0+000 to km 1+460 on route III-805 and from km 0+000 to km 0+640 on route II-86 is justified by the intensive traffic, which passes along a circular intersection, formed by the intersection of road I-8, road III-805 and road II-86, and by the unsatisfactory condition of the bridge over the Maritsa River at km 0+311 on road II-86. This is one of the biggest transport problems of citizens using this section. The assignment provides for the design of two-way local sails, the development of two complex road facilities with a total length of more than 700 m, the estacade over a circular intersection crossing with road I-8, continuing in a bridge over the Maritsa River. For separate position No 2 the job provides for rehabilitation of the existing road hub "Tsaratsova" and reconstruction of two of its intersections to ensure the currently uncertain directions and realization of bilateral local sails. For separate position No 3 the job envisions two-sided local sails, construction of large structures at crossing crossings with crossing roads: construction of 7 road nodes, 4 bridge facilities, as well as 5 road overpasses and underpasses. According to the EIA decision on the crossroads at km 6+945, in order to preserve to the maximum extent the residential buildings in the district of Komatevo, it is an approved option in which the design axis of the route needs to be shifted west by about 300 m. In the meantime, for the same territory located west of the existing route, a permit for the construction of a foreign investor has been granted. The Municipality of Rodopi expressed its view that it is necessary to present a new option solution in order not to affect the territory of the investor, making it impossible to implement the approved option and it is necessary to seek a new project solution to be provided for assessment by the Ministry of Environment and Water (MoEW). In the event that the MOEW confirms the existing EIA decision to implement the already approved version, it must be developed in the technical design. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u290	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u291	Thank you for your comprehensive and extremely detailed answer, Madam Minister. But I asked you a question to give me some prognosis anyway. I understand that we need to make an addition to the environmental impact assessment with this new route. I understand there are some deadlines for designing. There may be an appeal against these results which will be announced upon completion of the selection procedure of a contractor. But still, both I and the citizens, all the people who use this time, you pointed out the particular need for its reconstruction and its putting into normal condition for the existing movement, the flows of cars on it to have some kind of spark of hope. To say how you predict: when will these procedures be completed and when can some prime minister cut off the ribbon at the issue of the construction permit on this road?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u292	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u293	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Genov, you yourself have listed some of the procedures that need to be followed to reach the finish line and begin the construction. Just to add that an important point of the technical project in the separate position that I last spoke about is the shift of the department railway line of CCM 2000s, as in close proximity to the existing railway crossing there are poles with high voltage. In view of the fact that we expect a new procedure under the Environmental Protection Act to be launched for Specific Position No 3, as well as the upcoming alienation procedures of this very serious project in all three separate positions, at this stage I could not commit myself to a specific time limit of a specific date when we will have a complete project readiness to start the actual construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u294	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. That was the last question for you. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. We move on to questions to the Minister of Culture Boyl Banov. First, a request from the National Representative Anton Kutev on the policies of the government to guarantee freedom of speech in Bulgaria. You have the floor, Mr. Kutev, to develop your inquiry within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u295	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Dear Minister, I have asked this question with a clear mind, asking you that the regulation of media services and media freedom, in general on the media market, is to a very small extent actually part of the possibilities of the Ministry of Culture. In this context, my very question is directed to the policies of the government, for the simple reason that I was 100% convinced that if I put this question to Boyko Borisov he would be returned to me because he does not like to answer such questions. I've had a lot of experience with this. Since there is no one else within the state to ask this question, I ask it to you. Once again, with the clear knowledge that the possibilities of the Ministry of Culture with regard to regulation of the media market are quite small. At the same time, however, there is no other institution in Bulgaria, in any way, which still has sufficient opportunities in terms of expertise and in terms of people to do it, there is no other institution to take over in practice to bring order to media regulations, as they are all made so that they are independent. I have no way of asking the Council for Electronic Media, according to the logic of the Rules of the National Assembly, and at the same time the Council for Electronic Media should in one part decide, you and I should decide in another. I begin my question with the clear awareness that only part of the regulation could be considered to be the work of your Ministry. However, it is very much the government's work, as I think this problem is absolutely key at the moment. It is key not only because of what we saw happened in the National Radio, where it appears that the impacts are the least common and often quite scandalous, and attempts to influence public media. For me, the faults in the system are much more than the problems of public media. As I understand it, at the moment only the obligations of the Bulgarian national television are over 70 million, and their increased subsidy in the budget, which we will be watching next week at second reading, is 70 million, and this, by the way, is illegal because they cannot legally owe more than 10 million, that is to say, we are putting the national television in a situation where it violates the law with the adoption of the budget itself. They have no choice but to do so because it is not a question of management, it is a question of the volume of money they receive. With all the complexity of the situation that I would like to talk to you about, my question to you is: what are the policies of the government? Notice, expressed through the Ministry of Culture, to ensure freedom of speech in Bulgaria? So far, I've moved on to funding. But you know for yourself that Bulgaria, which is a member of the European Union and by all means the indicators of much of the indicators, is about economic and other indicators, always participates in the top 50 of some rankings. With regard to freedom of speech, we're at 111th place. Not only are we not in the top 28 as Europe is, we are not in the top 50 as are developed countries, we are going to 111th place. This problem is extremely serious, and I would like it not just to be a conversation, it will be a conversation here, but I would like it to be the beginning of a much longer conversation in society that will lead to solutions in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u296	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. You have the opportunity to answer, Minister Banov. Five minutes for your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u297	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Kutev, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Freedom of expression is an essential element of democratic systems and Bulgaria as a rule of law and a democratic state guarantees this with art. 39, para. 1 of the Constitution of the country. The activities of the media and the work of public radio and television are regulated in the Law on Radio and Television, introducing in Bulgarian law the standards of European Union law and international legal acts such as the Council of Europe Convention on Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Freedom of speech is guaranteed by the provisions of art. 10, para. 1, t. 1 and in art. 11 of the Law on Radio and Television. By art. 5 of the Radio and Television Act introduces a principle ensuring the independence of media service providers and their activities from political and economic intervention and the censorship of media services in any form is not allowed. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20, para 2 of the Radio and Television Act is clearly stated that the Electronic Media Service as an independent specialised body that regulates media services is guided by the interests of society, protecting the freedom and pluralism of the speech, information and independence of service providers. The guarantees of independence provided for by the Law are: the quota principle of formation, the rotation principle provided for in order to continuously renew the composition. The requirement for members of the Council is the requirements prohibiting conflicts of interest and commitment, transparency and publicity of decision-making of the regulator, judicial control over all decisions of the Council for Electronic Media, the requirement for motivation of acts and so on and so forth. Civil engagement, informed citizenship and the fundamental right to freedom of expression in a democratic system can only be guaranteed through freedom of the media and pluralism. The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the provisions of the Treaty on European Union shall ensure compliance with those principles. Bulgaria as a member of the European Union follows these principles and applies them in Bulgarian legislation. The Ministry of Culture shall support policies guaranteeing the independence of the specialised body in this area in balance with other fundamental freedoms, as well as any policy supporting quality journalism and ensuring the necessary conditions for the activity and independence of media service providers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u298	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for two supplementary questions, Mr. Kutev, within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u299	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, my question is not accidentally addressed to policies, i.e., what will we do from now on in Bulgaria on? What you have listed to me is actually the situation of things. I know it very well. This does not stop Bulgaria from 65th, seven-eight years ago, to fall to 111th place on media freedom, according to Reporters without border. Obviously we have a problem in this part and what has been done so far is obviously not working. I started this conversation with you for the simple reason that I am completely convinced that new regulations on the media market are absolutely necessary. What are the problems as a minimum that I see at first reading without deepening, because there will be no time now to deepen this conversation? We see a general lack of funding for the media. The result is that a bunch of media are shutting down, and it's media worth it. As far as I can tell from January 1st, the newspaper now will, for example, start going out weekly. And he's not the only example. We have serious problems in independence in my opinion, or at least in the attempts to influence public media and the case of the former director of the National Radio clearly shows it. We have serious problems with the way public media are financed, because we know that since 1998 the so-called "Radio and TV" Fund has been provided, which so far has not worked and which should have worked long ago if we want to carry out one of the brightest examples of public media funding, namely Britain and their public media, which are actually financed in the right principle. That's just part of the problem. I could list another 10 problems with finding that we have one legislation that is European. It's not gonna happen because we, unfortunately, have freedom of the media, which is not enough. In addition to censorship, which often appears in different ways, we have heavy self-censorship in the journalists themselves, which also has its reasons. This is all a matter of state policy. I am not saying that the state should intervene in media policy, on the contrary it should not do this, but the state should regulate conditions that guarantee free expression because the media, especially in the current situation, are very important. So my questions to you are these, there are several: what do we do with funding public media? How do we guarantee freedom and non-interference in working in the editorial policy of public media, especially given the scandal in National Radio? What do we do about not financing private media? How do we guarantee, because private media in themselves also have a public function, the public function of private media, how do we guarantee that they will also participate in something that is useful to us? Because they say, "We culture and children's shows don't run because they don't use us. So we have to take some action. There are many questions at all, and therefore I ask you to turn the following words to how we decide them, not what is the situation of the legislation at the moment. Believe me, I know it better than you do.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u300	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. You have the floor for an answer, Minister. Three minutes, I can give you a little bit more, since I also gave Mr. Kutev a little more time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u301	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Kutev, Dear Members of the National Assembly! The subject you are putting has many points of view and many solutions, including on a very large part of what you are talking about, I can safely agree with you. The reasons why the country is in a negative place in such rankings, given that it fully respects European Union legislation and the principles of any paper relating to freedom of the media, which is, in fact, our freedom, freedom of personality. Freedom of the media means democracy after all. Democracy, the word, has many meanings, very meaningful could be characterized and even with this only importance freedom of the media. At the moment, I can only confirm two things. The first is that, I repeat, the Ministry of Culture supports policies guaranteeing the independence of the specialized body in this area. These are Europe's requirements, we respect them and the best we can do, keep doing, all of us from our positions, so that we do not damage the serious problems of Bulgarian free journalism anyway, is to observe this non-interference. This is the most important thing we can do and we must do it with a very clear conscience. That's why I don't let myself in... I don't know if you know the legislation better than I do, certainly, and as a citizen, I can express many impressions, positions in this direction. The truth is that within these two or three minutes, apart from throwing in some of these, I am ready in any formats, debates, as a Minister of Culture, although not directly responsible, but it is normal to be engaged, to participate and take serious treatment, in depth. That's all I can say. At the moment, anything else would be, with all due respect to you and the high audience, not serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u302	Thank you, dear Mr. Banov. You have the floor to express your opinion, Mr. Kutev, within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u303	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Banov, I have asked this question without any doubt in your and my intentions, that is, I have no doubt that you and I are people who have democratic thinking and who are striving for it, so I have no doubts in this regard. However, what I would like to say to you is that it is not enough, and I am absolutely convinced that we should comply with the current legislation. We've already said it. It's obviously not working right now in this area or it's not working well. The smallest decisions we can make. We know that the 1998 Radio and Television Act is the so-called Radio and Television Fund, and since then it has not been able to work, and this is the work of governments. Yes, I agree that he cannot work with the efforts of the Minister of Culture, but with the efforts of the Minister of Finance. But he doesn't work. There are some reasons. These reasons can be avoided. But someone has to sit down and think about the reasons and sign the legislation. And I don't rule out that someone being the Ministry of Culture. True, it is better to be the Committee on Culture and Media in the National Assembly. I am not convinced that the Committee on Culture and Media has enough staff to do so while the Ministry of Culture has it. So someone needs to sit down and sign these rules, discuss them in a way that makes this truly guaranteed public commitment not only to the government, the opposition, the media themselves, because the issue is complicated. He is also dangerous to the government, because the moment you make any decisions, the likelihood of facing dissatisfaction with the media is very serious. That is why I am putting the issue once again on behalf of the opposition, because the question is to find the right roads together with the media. This is currently a key issue for Bulgarian society. If we do not overcome everything that is related as negatives, I am talking about self-censorship, but I personally know several cases in which businessmen fire journalists. [[Reply from Minister Boyl Banov.]] Not in their media, but in strangers. This is happening before our eyes and we all know it, and it is absolutely unacceptable if we want to meet the European criterion. So we have funding problems, we have censorship problems. [[the President signals that time has run out]] We're having problems with self-censorship, Mr. Chairman, we're having problems with public media regulation, we're having problems with regulation of the public function of private media. I am pleased that you are ready to continue this conversation, and since I am convinced that we have not done work now, I am making a request for a debate on the subject for next week with 61 signatures in order to be able to continue this topic. The most important thing in this case is not only you, but also colleagues, especially from the Committee on Culture and Media, because I am convinced that this conversation is important. [[The National Representative Anton Kutev shall submit a document folder to the President.]] Here you go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u304	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. In this regard, I must make an announcement on the previous question. By letter No 954-91 of 29 November 2019, submitted at 13.31 p.m. today, there was a request to hold a debate on the question No 954-05-39 of 17 September 2019 and a draft decision on the inquiry by the National Representative Anton Kutev to the Minister of Culture Boel Banov on the policies of the government to guarantee freedom of speech in Bulgaria. The proposal for a debate and the draft decision are signed by 61 MPs 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly more than one-fifth of the Members of the National Assembly to make a proposal for the discussion of the questions. On the basis of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule the debates on the questioning and voting of the draft decision for the next meeting, designated for parliamentary control. We move on to the next question to the Minister of Culture from the National Assembly Ivan Chenchev, Alexander Simov, Chavdar Velinov, Nona Yotova, Anastas Popdimitrov regarding the removal of the sign bookshop..Helicon............................................................................. I see Mrs. Yotova will develop the issue. Here you are, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u305	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers! Dear Minister Banov, 20 years ago in the building of the Ministry of Culture on the boulevard Alexander Stamboliyski It is even more striking that this removal of the bookstore "Helicon" became on the Day of Bulgarian Buddhists in order to transform a cultural institute into a office of another cultural institute "of the National Institute for Real Estate Cultural Heritage." We will recall that the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage is located in a new building designed and built specifically for the activities of the National Institute for Cultural Monuments, whose design area has not even been deployed in the full volume of the project. Our question is: what imposed this sudden new displacement, given that the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage has a huge array of archives reflecting the present state of thousands of national, regional real estate monuments of the cultural heritage of Bulgaria? Is there an approved project plan for the reconstruction of the premises where the relocation of the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage is envisaged, to what value is it, is this money provided for in budget 2020? How is a contractor chosen for this procurement? What is the period within which this project will be implemented? Couldn't these funds have been used to implement the amendments adopted in 2016 to the Cultural Heritage Act in art. 17, para. 3? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u306	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yotova. You have the floor to answer, Minister, within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u307	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In relation to your question, I will inform you of the following: In July 2013, the Ministry of Culture entered into a lease agreement with Lira.BG Ltd under the terms and conditions of the State Property Act, under which the Company was rented an independent space with a total area of 55 sq. m, which houses the bookstore of Helicon. In connection with the expiry of the lease contract, the Ministry of Culture informs Lira.BG Ltd that it should release the premises within one month of receipt of the letter. By application of September 2019, the tenant is prepared to hand over the rented property under the proper order of 16 October 2019, which is taking place. At present we are predicting the transfer of the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage to the building of the Ministry of Culture. For this purpose, the premises used so far as a commercial site by Lira.BG Ltd will be provided for the needs of the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage. We aim to manage the property in accordance with its purpose and to satisfy the needs of the Institute as a secondary authorising officer with a budget to the Ministry of Culture. The Institute's activities are directly related to the support of the Minister of Culture in exercising its powers in the conduct of state policy in the field of cultural heritage conservation and is directly dependent on the good administration of the National Documentary Archive Fund. One of the main functions of the Institute is to issue opinions in a conciliation procedure under art. 84, para. 1 and 2 of the Cultural Heritage Act. The activities of issuing these opinions require close interaction between the Institute and the relevant Directorate of the specialized administration of the Ministry. The two structures are directly related in the process of adoption, examination, coordination of a huge volume of project documentation related to the preservation of cultural and architectural heritage. In order to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and reduce the time for the implementation of administrative procedures, actions have been taken to reconstruct and adapt some of the available independent premises to the administrative building of the Ministry of Culture in which the archives of the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage are to be placed and stored. In this regard, a contract of November 2017 was commissioned to prepare a technical project for the implementation of the project "Change of the purpose and repair of the self-contained site" located in the building of the Ministry of Culture for the National Documentary Archive of NIKN and the quantitative-value account to it was worth 15 thousand. BGN 235. with VAT. On the basis of the approved design documentation, a construction permit was also issued on 24 April 2018. Following a public procurement procedure opened by a decision of June 2018, a contract with subject-to-matter..Repair of the independent site in the building of the Ministry of Culture and change of its purpose......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... BGN 491. with VAT. The site was put into operation with a certificate on 16 October 2019. Decision of 5 August 2019 also announced a procedure for the award of a public contract with the subject of a contract with the aim of providing and installing mobile racks and furnishings of premises in the basement of the administrative building of the Ministry of Culture with an estimated value of 288 thousand. lv. with VAT. At present, the work of the Evaluation Committee has not been completed, which is why no performer has been elected. The Ministry of Culture is about to undertake construction-repairing activities in the reconstruction of an independent site, a business office and a reading room for the needs of the Institute. This will satisfy the need for free spaces to conduct administrative procedures more effectively. In the back, I'll answer the last question that I've run out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u308	Thank you, dear Mr. Banov. Would you like a line, Mrs. Yotova? Here you go, Mr. Chenchev, will you do the line? [[Heckling]] I'm sorry, I didn't see you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u309	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers, Dear Members of the National Assembly! We've heard all the technology of everything that's happened. I wish we didn't have to talk here, like an hour ago in this tribune another minister was talking about reorganizations, modernizations. I'd like to talk to you a little bit about traditions, after all, this is cultural activity. Our question is raised in relation to a cultural center with a long tradition. The Ministry of Culture must have, if you will, such an imperative communication with That's what I'd like to talk to you about very well. In the face of any crisis in Bulgaria, come on, let's say public, communication between individual groups in the country, is it not better to observe our traditions?! Here I think that very soon the parliament will move, which leads me to think that talking about traditions may be unnecessary. People don't even move a stadium, what's left for such a cultural center?! Any other talks suppose the algebra of the reorganization and such are completely unnecessary. Just now, at the health minister's office, this thing became clear. By this logic, since we have an opening, can we move the National Library to the Fish and Hunting Society? Because they're running out of contracts, for example?! [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u310	The comparison is inappropriate.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u311	So quite well-intentionedly, it just hurts me for the traditions in Bulgaria. I think we need to figure this out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u312	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u313	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll allow myself, first of all, to complete the answer, because there were three questions in one and I didn't have time. On the third question. The changes quoted by you in art. 17, para. 3 of the Cultural Heritage Act are related to the creation of units within the established number of municipal administration and not of state, so the issue is untenable. I'm not gonna go on it, not waste any more time. It doesn't concern us. In any case, the transfer of the Institute to the administrative building of the Ministry and the creation of an archive of the National Archive will create prerequisites for a better organization by the activities of both these municipal units and the smoothness of their creation. Thank you very much for the question and the attitude that people should react to at the highest positions in the country. Closing down every bookstore is a painful act. That's how it's supposed to be. It's a painful act for me too. The point is that the Ministry of Culture must ultimately secure its activities, secure cultural heritage issues and enable, after quite troubled years, citizens of this country not to fear the Institute of Cultural Heritage and the decisions of the Ministry of Culture and respect. That's the point. The only way, honourable MPs, is to bring the Institute together with the Ministry of Culture in a building. It is so much the same activity that this is even a block away to be the administration of the Institute and administration of the Ministry of Culture, it is difficult and makes these endless waits, exchange of documents, which ultimately affects the preservation of the cultural heritage and the citizens of Bulgaria. We have no choice but to introduce the Institute along with its entire archive. At the moment, a former restaurant downstairs, which has been an empty restaurant for years, we have done it by all modern standards at a really serious storage facility. With the project we have for digitalization, within the framework of digitalization, the entire archive will line up, stop this search and digging through boxes and bags of the archive. On top, on the first floor will be the entire Institute, located with its own floor. The front will be the reception room, which is mandatory because the citizen should have the right to enter, to get acquainted with documents and so on. So the action is very timely, very late, I'd say. It is positive for the development and preservation of cultural heritage in the country. Unfortunately, we had a choice or we had to take the cinema out, or the bookstore out, or the gallery out. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] After all, "Helicon" is a proven group that deals with bookstores. They already have a lot in Sofia.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u314	Get it over with, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u315	This heartache I say was the most painless option. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u316	Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. Today's control will end with two questions to Minister Dimov. The first is from the MP Mihail Hristov on activities of zoos with withdrawn licences. Here you go, Mr. Christov. I call for a firmer approach to the last two questions. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u317	Of course, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I want to make a point. For me, the visit of a Bulgarian zoo, and I would like to stress, a Bulgarian zoo is neither fun nor educational, because it is like walking around in a prison and looking at criminals who have done nothing. Mr. Minister, there are nine minimum requirements that must cover every zoo in order to have a license. They're so minimal that a man who watches a homemade dog, let's say, covers them absolutely. There are about 20 zoos in Bulgaria and half of them have been revoked with a license and closing prescriptions. My question to you, Minister, is: what measures will the Ministry take in this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u318	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Mr. Dimov, you have the floor to respond within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u319	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, at present there are 19 sites on the territory of the country that meet the criteria for mandatory licensing as zoos. Of these, 14 are currently licensed, two are licensed, two are closed for visits and one is revoked. This year a new zoo is licensed and this is in Burgas, and seven licenses for activity for the zoo in the cities are reissued: Dobrich, Pleven, Knezha, Dimitrovgrad, Haskovo, Lovech and Varna, with the licenses provided. The two zoos in the licensing procedure are in Gorni Chiflik and Razgrad, with an on-the-spot check by an appointed Interdepartmental Commission by the Ministry of Environment and Water. The Commission is currently preparing the licensing report. In Razgrad the licensing will continue upon completion of the renovation activities in the zoo. The two zoos closed for visits are in Gabrovo and Stara Zagora. In Gabrovo is closed due to lack of a valid license and in Stara Zagora due to the start of renovation activities, which we have been informed of by the municipality. One of the zoos with a license revoked is in Kyustendil. Licences shall have a period of validity of five or ten years depending on whether the zoo meets partially or completely the minimum requirements set out in Regulation No 6. In the places where these requirements are partially met, the licence shall be granted under mandatory conditions and the time limit in these cases shall be up to five years if they meet all the At this time, given the status of the sites, all licences issued to zoos are for a period of five years of validity. In the event of non-compliance with the conditions laid down in the licence, zoos may be partially or entirely closed. In the process of licensing, thorough checks of zoos shall be carried out to establish and assess the fulfilment of the regulatory requirements. The licensing regime has been applied since 2007. The checks carried out over the last two years have shown that in most of the zoos in the country the minimum requirements have been met. For the species for which this is not fulfilled within the framework of the licences, the new licences are restricted to the cultivation of the species concerned. These are the licenses in Knezha and Lovech. In 2018, inspections were carried out at the most problematic zoos to establish their status and meetings with the respective mayors. However, an activity was found in Kyustendil in 2019 when a licence was revoked. In this regard, on 23 August this year, the Director of the RIOS Pernik issued a criminal order imposing a capital sanction on Kyustendil Municipality, which is currently being appealed. Meanwhile, the Ministry is looking at plans submitted by the municipality to reconstruct the zoo in order to give methodological guidance, which, by the way, is not in the legal obligations of the Ministry. At this time, we are also checking the possibility of removing animals from the zoo and their accommodation under appropriate conditions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u320	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimov. You have a word for a line, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u321	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Look, this is about animals. Although they are the largest majority in our society, they do not have the right to vote. I'll give you a specific example of Ljubcho of Kyustendil, who lives 35 squares, and in the Regulation you set minimum requirements of 70 squares and for me personally it is not normal for such an animal to be viewed in 70 squares. So I'm really asking you to consider the Ministry, here, and the colleagues are about to look at the budget, to devote funds to make these animals feel a little better. Our zoos are currently a legacy of communism, and nothing has changed with them, and this is the biggest problem. I've personally seen these animals have stereotypical movements. What's a stereotype movement? When the animal does not feel comfortable or feel threatened. The example of the Hunting Zoo you gave. You know, two years ago he was killed, I think a Jaguar, and the D.O.D.'s prescription was to buy a rifle. We really need to pay a little more attention to the zoos because, again, in those who are in Bulgaria, it is neither fun to go nor educational for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u322	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u323	Dear Mr. Christov! I fully share your concern. One example that you gave with Kyustendil is clear that there is no license, that is, it does not reply, and, unfortunately, this has not ceased their activities, and that is why we have imposed a forced administrative measure and a sanction which is still being appealed, and until the court's decision comes out, we must wait. But from the point of view of financing it is ultimately the work of the owner, whether private or local power, so from this point of view they must take the necessary measures to modernise, as is done in certain municipalities. So licences are not accidentally issued on condition and for the shorter term, because there is none fully responsible to obtain a 10-year license. I fully share your concern and we will continue to monitor this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u324	Thank you, dear Minister. And the last question of today's control is from the MP Milko Nedyalkov on unlawful actions in cleaning the trough of the Vit River. You have the floor, dear Mr Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u325	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For almost two months now, travelers on the main road I-4 have established from the bridge of the Vit River, at a road hub, that the entire trough of the Vit River on both sides, close to the construction of the Hemus Highway, is a lunar landscape broken down by heavy construction machinery and transport equipment. On November 18, RIEW Pleven, and the Swimming Directorate of the Danube Region, called the events of the cleaning activities of the Vit River. The two institutions sent letters to the district governor of Lovech, which gave orders to stop all activities along the river. A pool directorate explicitly states that a permit under the Water Act is required for such activities, which has not been issued. According to RIEW, the site of the activities falls within a protected zone for the protection of wild birds of the Natura 2000 network and these areas are not consistent. The subsequent confusing statements by the responsible institutions, even the Prime Minister, created more tension around what is happening with one of the most beautiful and unique rivers in Bulgaria, because many questions remain unanswered. The time since I asked my question is 10 days. Some of them were given an answer or a partial answer, but I am obliged to repeat them again: who and why has assigned the activities of cleaning the trough of the Vit river in quotes to how many sections along the river? Do they coincide entirely with the route of the highway of Hemus? Has a pre-geological study been done? Have a technical project been carried out for the seizure, as well as a comparative assessment of the benefits of the activity and environmental damage? Who is the contractor of the project and for what value is the contract awarded? Where are the thousands of cubic meters of deposits and ballast obtained through the cleaning activities of the Vit River so far? Who will assess the damage done to nature through these activities.. especially, also the water system in this region, because the Vit river is unique and it is also tied to the Zlatna Panega river? Who's ever been in control of what's called cleaning the tub? Thank you in advance. I'll leave you, Mr. Minister, photos from November 10th, long before the media noise on this matter. [[Leaves pictures in the stands.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u326	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u327	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nedyalkov, a small part of the questions are not within the competence of the MoEW, but from there on, for the most part I will try to give you the specific answers. According to information provided by the Swimming Directorate of the Danube Region, District Administration of Lovech, with a contract from 28 October 2019 awarded to According to the information provided by the Regional Administration "Lovech," the contract was concluded between "Hydrostroy" JSC and the district management of Lovech, amounting to BGN 1150. The contractor is obliged to deposit the quantities of deposits and ballast at a location specified by the mayor. According to the contract concluded, the contracting entity Regional Administration "Lovech" shall designate a person who exercises control over the activities envisaged. The section of the Vit River covered by the contract is close to the highway route. According to the contract before the work was started, the contractor should have turned to the Regional Inspectorate for Environment and Leads Pleven and the Swimming Directorate of Dunavski Region........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This coordination under the Environmental Protection Act and the Water Act is not done by the contractor. The Regional Inspectorate of the Environment and Leads Pleven has not notified an investment proposal, plan or programme for cleaning deposits of the Vit River, where the quantities of deposits should be indicated, where the materials are going and so on. Upon receipt of information from the Regional Administration of Lovech about the start of cleaning activities of the waste deposits from the Vit River, by letter dated 18 November 2019 the Basin Directorate of the Danube Region informed the Regional Governor of Lovech that the requirements of the Water Act were not met. As a result, the District Administration of Lovech ordered the "Hydrostroy" JSC to stop the implementation of the activities under the contract. For the established carrying out of cleaning activities of the Vit River, including the taking of deposits, without the granting of a permit under the Water Act, the Swimming Directorate of the Danube Region (SPA) has drawn up an act establishing an administrative infringement of the contractor.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Regional Inspectorate for Environment and Waters Pleven has issued an order for imposing a forced administrative measure under the Biodiversity Act of the District Governor of Lovech for stopping all activities in cleaning the deposits, removal of wood vegetation, extraction of ballast and logging in the area of the area which falls within the protected area of the site of the network. Orders have been given to the district governor of Lovech for the preparation of a project for the restoration of the riverbed and a project for restoration of the terrain within the protected area of the Vit River within one month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u328	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Nedyalkov, within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u329	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think that the assessment of what happened there has already been given by the Prime Minister, who characterized it by the words: "You have overreacted here." I think that the first reference is that the extraction activities of inert materials from the vit river bed have begun far before the conclusion of the so-called contract between the district manager and the company entrusted with this thing. Here, Minister, I will give you more photos from October 27, 2019, and also from October 13, 2019, where the excavators clearly show up the ballast from the trough of the Vit River and load it on the same blue truck that the ecologists took, and which you have seen, was spinning on the Internet. The second was overreacted by the actions of the ruling parties in the case were panicked and irresponsible, overwhelming the gross violation of the laws. They're even ridiculous. The price of the contract is BGN 958.33. without VAT, which is far below the fees to be paid for the authorisations granted and also for the preparation of all the documentation for obtaining those authorisations. The price for the whole section along the route of the highway is BGN 62.43. About a mile away. With this price, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly can be cleaned the troughs of Osam and Vit, which are in the territory of the area from which I am from the Lovech region, for 30 thousand. lv. It's also a re-enactment. And the third is irreparable damage to the ecosystem around the Vit River. There are such karst ponors, hence the water is sucked, filtered and goes to Chapter Zlatna Panega. From there you drink water, both in the territory of Lovech region and in the territory of Pleven region, so I advise you, Mr. Minister, all the documentation you have collected on this case, to complete it and hand it over to the competent authorities for seeking criminal liability. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u330	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. You're entitled to the doppelganger within two minutes, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u331	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Nedyalkov, first of all, I cannot agree at all that there was no coordinated action in the government and that someone acted in panic. I don't see that. The fact is that the contractor who concluded the contract does not comment on the price, this is ultimately arrangements between a contracting entity and a contractor, I cannot comment on the price, but it is a fact that the contractor must carry out certain concerts and has not agreed them and for this reason, firstly, the action has been suspended and, secondly, the relevant penalty has been imposed because when the Law is violated, as is the case, it must be acted as provided for in the Law, namely to suspend the actions and to impose the relevant sanctions. It is also entrusted with a project for the restoration of the river in its former form and as far as possible, because it is obvious that it cannot become one to one, as well as in the area of The actions of the various authorities of the government were largely in sync. Here it can be said that the governor should, firstly, require from the contractor, but in the end it is the contractor who is responsible to coordinate his activities in the Swimming Directorate and in the Regional Environmental Inspection. Again, I will limit myself in the area where the responsibilities of the Ministry of Environment and Water are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-29.u332	Thank you, dear Minister, for participating in the parliamentary control. And I thank my colleagues for the questions, for the presence. I am sure that the viewers also notice the more serious presence of MPs, especially on the right, of parliamentary control. Following the extraordinary meeting, on 3 December 2019, Tuesday, at 11:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
