ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u1	There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, on the grounds of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that it be included in our weekly Programme for the work of the National Assembly: Abort the authority of a Member of the National Assembly. The MP Slavcho Velkov resigned on 13 March 2019. I propose that it be the first item for today's plenary session and that the remaining points be renumbered accordingly. They voted 122 MPs: 117, against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We're moving to point one for today: TERMINATION OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. "Dear Madam President, please, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to be terminated my powers as MP from the Forty-fourth National Assembly early, with effect from 14 March 2019 I'm not gonna read them. ? RESPONSIBILITY? terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends Slavcho Georgiev Velkov's authority as a MP from the Thirteenth Election Region of Pazardzhishki. Hey, guys, any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I will personally vote against Mr. Velkov's resignation because I would like to know the reasons for this. I believe that Mr. Velkov is one of our most worthy colleagues in this Parliament, a man with an extremely active position, a man with morals and honor. His absence in this House will be a huge loss for the Bulgarian society and the Bulgarian Parliament, so I call on us not to accept Mr. Velkov's resignation! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u3	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Colleagues, please wait, there's a motive I didn't read. Mr. Velkov has indicated a motive: the need for long-term treatment and recovery. That is the reason for his resignation, and I think we should respect his request. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote an end of Mr. Slavcho Velkov's authority as a MP from the Thirteenth Election Region of Pazardzhishki. Vote 139 MPs: 132 against 6, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the second item of today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CONCESSIONS. Who will introduce us to the Committee on Legal Affairs Report? Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Before the Second Reading Report, I ask for a procedure for admission in the hall of the Deputy Minister of Transport Veliko Zanchev and the Director of the Directorate of Legal and Ms. Krasimira Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u5	Please vote on the procedure. They voted 129 MPs: for 123, against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions, No 902-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 February 2019, adopted on the first vote on 7 March 2019. The Act for the Amendment and Supplement to the Law for the Contracting Parties. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u7	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. Vote 108 MPs: 103, against 3, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u8	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u9	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1. They voted 111 MPs: 108, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u10	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u11	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2. They voted 115 MPs: for 107, against 1, abstention 7. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u12	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3 and shall replace the word "supposed' with the word "supplied'.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u13	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 3 with the editorial amendment proposed by the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 106, against 2, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u14	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u15	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 4. Vote 108 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u16	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50 the following 1. In para. 1: (a) A new item shall be created. 3: "3." carrying out a re-trial; b) Previous t. 3 and 4 become respectively t. 4 and 5. 2. The creation of para. 4. The notice of re-procurement, whether with or without cross-border interest, shall be completed in an electronic form published on the website of the National Concession Register.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u17	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of § 5. They voted 105 MPs: for 101, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u18	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u19	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 6. Vote 107 MPs: 100 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u20	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u21	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 7. Voted 103 MPs: 100, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u22	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is The amendments shall be made by a notice of amendment approved by the concession by a decision. The decision may also approve relevant modifications to the concession documents. The decision shall be issued before the expiry of the announced deadline for receipt of applications, preliminary tenders or tenders. (3) After the decision under para. 2 The notice of amendment shall be sent for publication in accordance with art. 76, para. 1 and under the terms of art. 76, para. Three, sentence one. The national concession register shall publish the amendment notice, the decision under para. 2 and when amendments to the concession documents are approved, the modified documentation shall be approved. The publication of the documents in the National Concession Register shall take place after publication of the publication in the Official Journal of the European Union in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u23	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 8. They voted 102 MPs: 97, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u24	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 94, para. 2 sentence 2 is finally
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u25	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote with the version proposed by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u26	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u27	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 10. Vote 97 MPs: 91, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u28	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 122 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2, p. 22 the words "and the order for' shall be replaced by "the order and the consequences of'. 2. In para. 4 is created t. 4. "4." the conditions under which the economic operators participating in the group, the private partner or third parties respond jointly with the concession holder in the cases provided for in this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of § 11. Vote 91 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u30	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 142 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words by the court in the order of the Civil Procedure Code shall be replaced by the words referred to in art. 154, para. Two or three. 2. In para. 2 after the word the Court shall be added
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u31	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of § 12. Vote 97 MPs: 94, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u32	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u33	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 13. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u34	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u35	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 14. They voted 103 MPs: 96, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u36	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 158, para. 3, p. 4 the words "destined by a tariff approved by the Council of Ministers" shall be used.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u37	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 15. 100 MPs voted: 97, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u38	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u39	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 16, supported by the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u40	Paragraph 17 "Instruction text'. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 179, para. 2, p. 6 words or contradicts another requirement of this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u41	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 17. Vote 98 MPs: 95, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u42	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u43	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 18. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u44	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u45	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 19. They voted 93 MPs: 89, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u46	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u47	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law and the text of the importer for § 20 supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 91, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u48	Under § 21, there is a proposal from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21: .................................................................. In the Law on State Property (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 the word "in addition" is deleted; 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38, para. 1 the words "administrative court of the location of the property" shall be replaced by a three-member body of the Administrative Court "Sofia
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u49	Thank you. Are there any speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, we have discussed this text in the Committee on Legal Affairs on a continuous basis. I withdrew my proposal, which was made between first and second readings in the debate in the Commission. It concerns a change in the case of disputes over estranged property for state need to restore the conviction before a three-member panel of the Supreme Administrative Court. This proposal has been withdrawn. As a result of the debate, it was replaced by the proposal that the defendant should be of a three-member composition of the Administrative Court. Dear colleagues, I am making a proposal to drop the item. 2 of the proposals as a version of the Commission for § 22. In other words, to eliminate the amendment in art. 38, para. 1 and within the scope of this law not to comment on a change in the conviction of disputes concerning the expropriation of private real estate for objects of national importance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? You have the floor for a line, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Kirilov, my line is in the direction of a question for you. In order to reach that authorisation in the Commission, which is now included in the Report, the cases which are in relation to sites of national importance, for example the construction of highways, and to assume that the Administrative Court of Sofia area will examine these cases in a Chamber of three Judges, one of the main arguments which has been brought down by the representatives of the Ministry of Transport in the Commission, was the disparity of the earlier practice which would have been obtained in cases where this object falls into the territory of several areas and we have several different decisions of the administrative courts in them. How do we solve this problem by leaving the conviction as it is now described in the State Property Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u53	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Second line? I can't see. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Mitev, if my proposal is accepted, we leave the conviction as it is according to the latest amendments of the Administrative Procedure Code, which means that the administrative courts will rule as the first instance, and the Supreme Administrative Court will be a cassation instance. As a cassation authority, the Supreme Administrative Court will have the opportunity to align the practice of the lower administrative courts. We believe that the Administrative Court could handle this. The problem arises. We also commented on it in yesterday's debate regarding the readiness to appear in multiple cases in numerous administrative courts. We have been assured that if the Council of Ministers entrusts this to the regional governors, they could take this job. I hope that the regional governors have sufficient legal counsel available to take over the procedural representation. My concern will remain somewhat. These are disputes that will be mainly linked and concentrated, focused on the cost of compensation, i.e. the valuation of real estate. I hope that the Supreme Administrative Court can establish uniform practice with regard to administrative courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Are there any other statements? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's proposal for a change in the version proposed by the Commission, the dropping of point two. Vote 89 MPs: 84 against 1, abstention 4. The offer is accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 21, except for that. 2 as the accepted proposal of Mr. Kirilov. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u56	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 19, item 1. 3, which shall enter into force from 30 January 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u57	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 22. Vote 89 MPs: 87, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. With this we finish second point of the Work Programme today. Moving on to point three: HEARING THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE OF THE BENEFICIARY. 113 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORKING OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE SITUATION OF THE PENENTIAN The representatives of the National Assembly are Danail Kirilov, Anna Alexandrova and Iglika Sabeva. You have the floor, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Undoubtedly, the maintenance and development of the penitentiary system is a difficult and precise process, which requires management based on a wide range of specific policies, which, both by nature and specificity, aim at legislative initiative and practical direction, such as actions in terms of improving the material base, and not only. Analyses have shown that there are a common set of factors that, combined, represent a model for good management of the penitentiary system. However, it is not enough for these topics to be considered abstractly, but it is important to base them on a common approach from clear principles. These principles need to be clearly outlined, taking into account in advance all necessary social factors, regulatory requirements and, last but not least, synchronised with international standards in the area of maintenance and development of prisons. Reforming the prison system is an integral part of the process of accelerated judicial reform and successful countering crime. In recent years, our country has made significant progress in the development and improvement of criminal execution. In general, the reform process is long and difficult, as a result of decades of unresolved problems and the unpopularity of measures in the public when they are aimed at improving the material living conditions of offenders in prisons. Already in the process of our country's negotiations on integration into European structures, the comparative and legal research carried out, the increased exchange of information and experience showed a number of shortcomings in the state of the material and technical base of the prison system. The insufficient building fund, the deteriorated housing conditions and the overcrowding in the Bulgarian penitentiary establishments are the subject of monitoring by international and internal human rights authorities and organizations and are the basis of the judgment of the European Court of Justice against the Republic of Bulgaria. It is indisputable that in recent years a comprehensive reform in all sectors of activity is being carried out in the penitentiary system. The introduction of the treatment of prisoners in accordance with international standards "the United Nations Convention on Human Rights, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, the minimum standards for the treatment of prisoners, the European Convention for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman Or Degradation or Punishment, the European Prison Rules, the recommendations of the Council of Europe and others, is a key criterion for assessing changes made. In the spirit of the already mentioned facts and at the same time established challenges, the Ministry of Justice, through its portfolio offices, has clearly undertaken reforming its policies with regard to prisoners and their accommodations. In this regard, we would like to learn: what are the exact actions to improve the material and technical base of the penitential system, what are the following trends regarding the establishment of an educational policy against prisoners, and what are the challenges to the development of the penitentiary system?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u59	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u60	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Kirilov, Mrs. Alexandrova, among the priorities of the Ministry of Justice one of the main topics is undoubtedly the state and improvement of the conditions in the penitentiary system, or this is the system for suffering imprisonment, as well as the implementation of the measure of detention. The main strategic document on the basis of which our actions and policies are based is the updated strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary, where a special place is also facing the prison sentence system. The pilot decision has also been given by the Strasbourg Court of Justice, which has gained civility and prominence as a pilot decision Neshkov. His recommendations have led to significant amendments to the Law on Punishment and Detention. Through these changes, we have fulfilled the minimum conditions required by international standards with regard to the problem in which specific domestic conditions this punishment should be endured. The Bulgarian legislator in the face of the Bulgarian Parliament has accepted the European criteria that these are at least 4 sq. m area of any person residing in those establishments. For comparison, I would like to say that despite these criteria Italy continues to support 3 sq. m area for one imprisoned. Following the changes in the legislation for which we have currently prepared a follow-up impact assessment, her one-month discussion is coming to see how these norms work and, if necessary, the Bulgarian Parliament, on a proposal from the Ministry of Justice and, above all, the Directorate General, "Execution of Punishments" to propose changes to this law. In addition to meetings, discussions, good working with the Ministry of Interior, with the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria these are the institutions that we are obliged to and have responsibilities in this system. The relations with our European partners are extremely regular. First of all, this is the Anti-Torture Committee of the Council of Ministers in the Council of Europe, with which we have a minimum of two working meetings annually. The last one was held at the beginning of this calendar year on 15 January. Last week on a visit to the Ministry of Justice and the General Directorate of Justice was a delegation from Germany, consisting of representatives of the Federal Ministry of Justice and Consumer Protection, the General Prosecutor's Office in Berlin, the General District Court in Frankfurt, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Germany. Apart from the work meetings we had with the delegation members, they also visited the prison in Belene. According to the program they had the opportunity to visit the prison in Pleven, but due to the advanced time and the desire of the delegation itself, they did not reach there. What are the conclusions about the state of the system as a result of the specific facts that our international partners have and also from our joint work with the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria? It is undisputed that after 2015, when the changes were undertaken, the updated strategy, the amendments to the special law of ZINZS, there are good results that are accepted and recognised by all our partners. What exactly are we talking about here? The efforts of the government not only of the current cabinet, but also of the previous cabinet of Prime Minister Borisov are not a trigger act, they are a process, bearing in mind that when the legislation introduces the new conditions and criteria, about 90% of the building fund did not meet the conditions to have at this time findings that progress has been made and that work is being done in terms of improving these conditions. In most parts they are fulfilled. This is due to the consistent work of various groups in the political cabinet of the Ministry of Justice. What, in particular, could I give as facts about the period in which I run the Ministry of Justice? For 2017, complete renovations of the bedrooms and living rooms were carried out in the prisons in Burgas, Varna and Sliven. By the end of 2019 the renovations in the prisons in Pazardzhik, Bobov dol and in the indoor prison dorm of Black Forest to the prison in the town of Stara Zagora will be completed. During the new programming period of the Norwegian Financial Mechanism for 2019, it is intended to carry out the following activities: renovation of the prison corps in the city of Plovdiv, including the open-air prison dormitory, hebross and its establishment in a transitional ward; renovation of two buildings from the prison in the city of Bobov dol, including the prison dormitory of an open-air type A new prison with a capacity of 400 prisoners and a training corps for employees with a capacity of 100 guards is to be selected. It is important to note that the State-owned company They are already provided for the needs of DGIN. It is very important to know that, in parallel with improving the material conditions under which prisoners suffer their punishment, we also work extremely hard to improve the working conditions and remuneration of employees who are employed in this highly responsible activity. Thanks to the consistent policy of the government and the current budgetary year, the necessary funds are provided, with only for the two years of 2017 and 2018, and in view of the planned budget for 2019, about 35% is the increase in remuneration in this system. The state and the government are making every effort by following the general priorities of government policy. First of all, education and income increases, which is also a fact about our system. Here is the time to point out that thanks to the MPs in view of the budget voted for this year, 200 additional units in the judiciary have been allocated to our system, of which 134 in the Directorate-General for Punishments and 66 in the Directorate-General for Security and, of course, the Ministry of Interior and the Prosecutor General's Office. As a result of the policies that have been carried out so far, I can clearly say that progress and achievement has been made, but I cannot hide that we have problems and mainly they are reduced to arrests. These are the two arrests on the territory of Sofia, as well as the Sofia Central Prison. Of course, there are other settlements outside the capital. What are the reasons for this? First of all, these are old buildings with tens of years of history. In order to bring them into the relevant required norms, temporary repairs which are constantly being carried out in them cannot achieve the desired end effect, as they undoubtedly need major repairs. This cannot be done, although it is financially possible to provide funds for a single reason that there is nowhere to temporarily move the persons who are in Sofia Central Prison. As regards arrests, the situation is similar, although efforts are being made to improve these living and sanitary premises. I believe that, after the implementation of the Norwegian Mechanism project, it will to a large extent be unloaded, but it is also important to know that there is no overcrowding in the prisons, with a strong view to the basis we have at our disposal, that the minimum minimum sanitary criteria of prisoners are provided everywhere. You understand that in view of the detention places, the arrests are floating there. It is possible that in one arrest for a period there are several people, but nevertheless we are obliged to maintain 24-hour shifts on the part of the surveillance staff, while, for example, in a single action where there are more detained persons, this number can increase immensely. This occurs mainly with the two arrests in Sofia, due to the fact that with the changes in the NPC crimes of organised crime, as well as on the high levels of power, are concentrated here in the Specialized Prosecutor's Office and Court, which requires such detainees to be placed in Sofia's arrests while considering their cases. Since I have been given a sign that I have overdue the time, I apologize for the additional questions I will enter into more specifics.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u61	Thank you, Minister Tsacheva. Let's start with the questions. The hearing will be held according to the regulation of art. 113 of our rules. The first question will be asked by the parliamentary group of GERB. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u62	Thank you. Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Minister, a few things have become clear from your exhibition: regarding the increase in employees' incomes; the efforts of the government, you and your team; regarding the building fund; regarding the allocation of additional units and already employed 134 in the Directorate General However, I would like you to answer me a question relating to the execution of punishments by those who endure them. Either way, after receiving the punishment of his face, there is an awkward social clash, if I may call it, and a period of adaptation in the sociology. A number of studies have been conducted and have been carried out in Member States of the European Union which show that, at empirical level, the most important indicator of the benefit of punishment is the extent to which the convicted person can successfully reintegrate in society, in the labour market, in his family, and there is a major risk of committing a new crime. A large part of those working in Member States' systems consider the prevention, re-socialisation and implementation as a major task in their work in closed education programmes and professional training of convicted persons. It is considered that the effect of such programmes often exceeds their costs in a strictly economic sense. In this regard, I would like you to acquaint me and the House with and get more information on the activities and policies of the Ministry of Justice regarding the development of such programmes and policies relating to the reintegration of those incarcerated immediately after their punishment has been endured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u63	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, thank you for this question, because if the main and first purpose of the state policy in respect of those who suffer punishment is their retribution, i.e. for the period of judgment to be isolated from society, and at the same time the responsibilities of the state to ensure the conditions under which they suffer this punishment, and their lives and security, it is undoubtedly no less important that the responsibility of the state and the policies carried out in this area in respect of re-education, policies that allow the person who has suffered his punishment to re-enter civil society again. Therefore, the challenge of a number of categories of employees of the Directorate-General for Public Punishment, including social workers, inspectors, psychologists, should not be underestimated and left in the background and the medical care that is being carried out for the persons in this system, is with one and only objective for really for the time for which it is in such a place, the deprived of liberty to get the opportunity, and why not working habits, so that when it comes out, it can effectively participate in the social life in our country. This must be given to the State-owned enterprise "Fond incarceration" which only organised 12 courses for 2018 with the participation of 185 prisoners. What are these courses? They are for the acquisition of a different capacity for, for example, the pursuit of the profession of high pressure boilers, with a duration of 300 hours. 27 prisoners from the prisons in Lovech, Pleven, Belene, Vratsa, Bobov dol, Stara Zagora, Burgas and Plovdiv participated here. 11 courses for part of the occupations were carried out as follows: assistant in construction, major in basic and finishing... I do not have the opportunity for the time I have, specifically to introduce in each individual course how many prisoners have participated, I will only list the courses: welder special welding; profession of assistant in construction; assistant in the construction of majors in basic and finishing works. Again in Stara Zagora, assistant in construction, major in basic and finishing works. A worker in the production of culinary products in food and entertainment establishments, whatever that means; a worker in wood processing. That is to say, where conditions have been created for the acquisition of additional qualifications and working conditions within the framework of the application of the punishment, effect and results are indeed such as you said, the input for the result, and the result goes beyond the means to be put into this. I would like to point out here that it is very important and the policy of schools that are at the Ministry of Education and Science, but they are located within the prisons. Personally, I have visited not one such place and classrooms where classes are held from I to XII grade, including specialized computer courses and whatnot. These are all policies that enable a person who has endured retribution for what he has done, really, realizing his stay in this place, to correct himself and come out in a way that he can fit in with the other members of our society.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u65	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsacheva. We'll continue with the questions. Due to the absence of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and the representatives of this group, we will continue with a question from the parliamentary group of the United patriots. Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members, my question relates to the part of today's hearing devoted to the building fund in terms of prisons. It is true that in your exhibition you gave some information and information, but still, if you could give us a little more details about the procedure related to the construction of a new prison. We know that there are granted, I think, 32 million under the Norwegian Financial Mechanism, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the functioning of the Ministry of Justice in terms of renovating and repairing the building fund of existing places of imprisonment, in view of the fact that it is precisely because of the poor material and physical conditions in these places of imprisonment that are often brought complaints and we have proceedings at the European Court of Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u67	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Dear Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mitev, under the Norwegian mechanism one of the spheres I have listed them in detail is precisely the possibility of building a new Training Centre for 100 employees from the Surveillance and Security Board, as well as a new prison housing with a capacity of 400 people. When the current political cabinet of the Ministry took over these responsibilities, the first thing we did was to look for a suitable terrain for the construction of this new facility - a prison and a training centre. From the properties at the disposal of the Ministry of Justice, we conducted a number of activities together with the Regional Ministry, with the local authorities to provide such land in the region of Kremikovtsi, which is close to the current premises available to this system. It turned out that there was no infrastructure built, which, of course, is financially heavy on the project in which there is no allocation for infrastructure. Since the responsibilities here are different and not of the Ministry, to provide infrastructure, it has become clear from the meetings and work carried out on this topic that there is a need to look for another terrain. We then headed for a second site, which is in the Kazicene area, also our property, but for a joint meeting between the Prosecutor General's Office and the Ministry of Interior, I asked the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence to provide us with, if they have free state plots in their management, in order to start the appropriate design procedures and other stages of construction. The Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior also responded. We are currently at the stage of discussion with regard to the necessary conditions that need to be in place to determine the terrain. We are also in good interaction with the deputy prime minister Mr. Tomislav Donchev, with the team of the Coordination Mechanism of the Norwegian Programme. This is something that is on our agenda and it is our daily work to start building this site, which will actually have the most modern, modern indicators and conditions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u69	Thank you, dear Minister. There will be no question from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, as well as a question from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Rodolivtsi. We continue with the next question from GERB's parliamentary group. Here you go, Mrs. Ivanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u70	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, in the society we live in, there is no doubt that digital technologies dictate the agenda. Undoubtedly, as regards the process of development and modernisation of the penitentiary system, as well as the means to exercise control over prisoners, the digitalisation process plays a very important role. Following the work of the Ministry of Justice, it is obvious that in terms of the development of the infrastructure of the prisons, the policy of the institution led by you is also taking into account the new trends. This is also proven by the project on which the Ministry of Justice is working, namely the modernization of the penitentiary system in the Republic of Bulgaria. In this regard, it is also my question to you, namely: at what stage of the implementation of the project are you present and what are the final results expected to be in the implementation of this important project?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u71	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ivanova. Dear Minister Tsacheva, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ivanova, this is a project on which we are almost at the finish line. In society, it is known as the Project for the so-called Bracelets. The first stage of the project is a fact and this was taken into account at the end of last year. Another stage of this project is the implementation of training for the staff who will work with these devices and with this system of training of 16 trainers trained by the contractor and an additional 198 employees of management and expert staff from the territorial services of the Directorate General for Punishment (GDIN) for working with this system. My intel is we're in the finals. Trials are being carried out, and very soon this will be a fact to meet the expectations of society for more guarantee and security through these electronic devices. However, I have to say that there are a total of 250 of them by one system, 50 by another, which will by no means satisfy the actual needs of the entire system in which those imprisoned are over eight thousand. However, this is a first, a very important step anyway, this is the road, this is the direction we need to follow, so I am convinced that there will be more security in this system, more peace for citizens, so that they can actually effectively track prisoners when working on external sites, or with regard to persons with criminal penalties, persons with a measure of domestic arrest. They cannot be applied to all types and categories of persons who suffer this punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u73	Thank you, dear Minister. A question from the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs. Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u74	Madam President, Madam Secretary! You have mentioned the increase in wages in DGIN, which is a good step towards really improving the working conditions of these people. It's probably something that hasn't happened in a long time. I would like to ask you: Does the Ministry provide from now on to look for additional opportunities and resources for these employees to be able to do their job and to be able to attract people to work there who are good professionals? Is the increase in income and additional incentives envisaged for DGIN employees in the future?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u75	Thank you. Dear Minister, come in. You have the opportunity to answer the question asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Angelov, in fact the funds that have been invested in the last two years under the Ministry of the Interior for raising the remuneration of the employees of the Supervisory and Security Board and other activities have made it possible for them to actually meet the legal condition that, as part of the common security system, the remuneration of the employees in the Ministry of Interior should be weighed down, as under the Special Law on Punishment, the majority of the employees work precisely under the Act on the Ministry of Interior. In addition to last year's increase, initially with 15 million, which during the budget update became 17 million. Three hundred thousand. BGN, except from the beginning of last year, the 5 per cent, which were for the entire system of security, for the current budget year 2019, employees of all categories, not only those who are under the Ministry of Interior Act, but also those who work under the Law on State Staff and the Labour Code, received the 10% increase, which is for the entire administration, in view of the government's policy. As for the next budgetary years, I am convinced that there will be new increases, in view of good fiscal policy, collection and the availability of revenue in the budget, as has been stated in view of our management programme for a gradual increase in these funds by size and, of course, in a specific dimension. Here is the time to share about the very good work and interaction with the three trade unions that are common in this area and work under the Ministry of Interior Act. These are the Syndicate of the Officers of the Surveillance and Security Staff, as short as possible the Syndicate of the General Directorate of Security, and the Syndicate of the Penitentiary Workers are the inspectors; the social inspectors; the persons who take medical care of prisoners. This dialogue is also not a one-off act between us. We're in close contact. I share in advance that the 10th anniversary of the trade union will be celebrated on 7 April. The Ministry's leadership has commitments to this topic as well. I will conclude by saying that this system was the first state structure to mark the 140th anniversary of its existence on 29 January this year, as before the Constitutional Assembly in Tarnovo, before the Constitution, with a view to the importance of the prison case, special attention has been paid to the employees of the Directorate General In this sense, this year is the anniversary. I say this fact in order to stress once again how important this system is, how it has always been to the attention of state institutions, to the management of the state during the various socio-economic periods during which the state has passed. This will be the case from now on, naturally, by keeping in touch with the priorities of our government, of our coalition governance. Again, I mentioned it at the beginning, first of all is education, raising incomes. Not to mention everyone, but somewhere there are also the topics we have commented on today in the field of the policies and activities of the penitentiary system, i.e. the system that is committed to suffering the punishment of freedom and detention under guard.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u77	Thank you, Minister Tsacheva. That concludes the question cycle. In accordance with art. 113 parliamentary groups have the right to express their attitude to the answers within five minutes. The parliamentary group of GERB is welcome, Mr. Kirilov. You have the floor for attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u78	Dear Madam President, honourable Minister of Justice, honourable Members of Parliament! Thank you for your appearance today in the parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria and for providing clarification on the policies of the Ministry of Justice in the complex matter of the executive production. It's a tough production. It is associated with many social consequences, requires the existence of many material prerequisites. That is why we have all understood that we have had reason to establish in the debates so far that Bulgaria has, in recent decades, significantly fallen behind in the international standard and the requirements for the guarantee and guarantee of the rights of prisoners in respect of compliance with the international standards laid down in the UN Convention on Human Rights, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, the minimum standards for the treatment of prisoners, the European Convention for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, the European Rules for Prisons, the recommendations of the Council of Europe. In recent years, there have been frequent cases in which courts of foreign countries commented on the conditions in the Bulgarian penitential criminal justice system, a system for suffering punishment, and preferred the application of their own state coercion over the sending of the guilty to suffer the punishment of imprisonment of origin, by country. In this respect, and as a member of the Legal Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I am pleased with the work you have done and the Ministry of Justice. I admit that you have been faced with very serious challenges, but I believe that the measures for reforming the enforcement system are being effectively implemented as part of our justice system. I believe that the prerequisites for significant progress and for improving criminal execution are already felt. Ten-year unsolved problems will weigh on us for a long time, but for several years the conditions in prison are seriously improved. We all remember the amendments to the Law on Punishment and Detention, where the Parliament also attempted to establish the international standard and implement the judgments of the European Court of Justice. In this regard, I believe that the fundamental requirements of European and Conventional Law were also laid down in our internal law. We welcome your stubbornness to change, improve and update the rules for the convoy activity. Of course, this may sound somewhat daily, but it is essential because the stability of the system is determined by the power of individual structures. Everything matters not only the social rights, contentment and remuneration of employees who perform security and defence at prisons, but also the educational activities, education, preventive activity, subsequent control, the possibility of re-adaptation, the possibility of socialization of those who have suffered their punishment. I am sure that with your perseverance, knowledge, already and experience, we can rely on progress and development. I believe that our colleagues who present Bulgaria to PACE, including on the problems of the prison case, this and the following years with higher raised foreheads will be able to report and explain to our colleagues what has been achieved here. I'm running out of time, Madam President. I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u79	You've delayed it, I'm tolerant, but it's really time to get this over with.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u80	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u81	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. This is followed by the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs. Mr. Mitev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u82	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I am pleased with what I heard today in your exhibition initially on the topic, as it is asked by the importers, and the questions raised by both colleagues from GERB and our parliamentary group. I believe and see that the Ministry of Justice will continue the active action in improving the material base in the prisons, which is one of the main prerequisites that we do not then have judgment decisions in the European Court of Human Rights, and, respectively, the negative reports that point to this as one of the weaknesses of our criminal justice system. I welcome and appreciate what the Department of Justice's team has done with regard to increasing the remuneration of the staff at the Directorate General for Punishment and what is being done to improve working conditions. I believe that maximum efforts should also be made in the coming remaining years until the end of the mandate for continuing increases in remuneration. You have given indications that, with good collection by the revenue agencies and a good implementation of the state budget, the revenue side, this could happen, it is realistic, but I think that there should be emphasis and a separation of sufficient resources for additional qualifications for employees in prison places, thus better and more effectively implementing state policy in the field of imprisonment. I think that more funds should also be spent in the foreseeable future, so that in prison places one of the objectives of the punishment... for those condemned persons who are, of course, re-educated, it can be done by providing the opportunity to work in prisons. This in some prisons in the country is done somewhere better, somewhere not so. And next, what was raised in the debates today as the subject of the punishment to have opportunities for the re-socialisation and return of these individuals to society, including in the labour market, so as not to bring about cases of relapse, to cases where these persons fall back into marginal groups and are again forced to commit crimes and become a permanent contingent of the prison system and the country's criminal justice system. In perspective, the practical system of the prison case in Bulgaria is also related to the concept of a new criminal policy. What will be set as main objectives will then also reflect on our system of execution of penalties. We expect from the Ministry action in this direction as well. Thank you for the information provided, for your personal efforts, for what your team is doing to improve the system of execution of penalties, the implementation of the changes that the National Assembly adopted nearly two years ago in the Law on the Execution of Punishments and detention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u83	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Let me thank Minister Tsacheva for her participation in this hearing. Goodbye. We continue our work on the next item on the agenda: REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S ACTION ON THE CONVERSATION OF THE CORRUPTION AND THE DISCLOSURE OF THE INDEPENDENTLY ACCOMPANYING IN 2018 Please read the draft decision in order to put it to the vote. Mr. Yachev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u84	Madam President, honourable Members! I suggest to your attention: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the Report on the Activity of the Commission on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property in 2018 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 17 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 18, para. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the Commission's Action on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property in 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u85	Thank you. I put to the vote the decision on the Commission's Anti-Corruption Action Report and on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in 2018. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The decision's been made. We continue our work with the next point: FIRST VOICE OF LAWPROLECTING THE LAW FOR MANAGEMENT BY THE EUROPEAN STRUCTURAL AND INVESTIGATION FUNDS. The people's representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs are importing. Report of the Committee on Budgets and Finance "Please come in, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u86	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe on a bill supplementing the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act, No 954-01-7, submitted by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 12 February 2019. At a regular meeting held on 7 March 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by the representatives from: The Supreme Judicial Council Mr. Boyan Magdalinchev, Chairman of the SJC, and Mr. Nikolay Naydenov, Director of the Legal Department; Mr. Ivan Ivanov, Director of the Central Coordination Unit, and Mrs. Maria Baneva, Expert. The Bill aims to speed up the implementation of measures implementing the updated strategy for continuing judicial reform and the Strategy for the introduction of e-government and e-Justice for which European funding is envisaged. The Supreme Judicial Council implements a number of projects financed mainly by the Operational Programme "Good Governance" as beneficiary or partner with the Ministry of Justice. These projects are generally complex in nature and complexity, which requires the involvement of judges, prosecutors, investigators and judicial officers from the judicial authorities, both in the management teams and in the enforcement teams. The participation of those persons is a mandatory condition for the successful implementation of the projects because, on the one hand, they are the immediate addressee of the measures specified in the projects and, on the other, the only ones with sufficient experience, access to operational resources and information and opportunities for implementation, implementation and sustainability of the project objectives and results. Under current regulations, the Supreme Judicial Council may freely entrust management and implementation activities of the projects only to its members and administrative staff. In the award of management and implementation activities for the projects of judges, prosecutors, investigators and judicial officers in the bodies of the judiciary, they shall be regarded as external persons and shall be subject to the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. This legislative decision comes to situations where, in order to use the specific expertise of those persons, the latter cannot be practically paid in so far as the conclusion of a contract with them is to be done through a public procurement procedure. However, the latter would be facing the risk of being vitiated, in so far as the prior appointment of a contractor in a competitive procedure would, as a rule, be contrary to the spirit and principles of the Public Procurement Act. There are a number of cases where specific judges, prosecutors, investigators and judicial officers from other bodies of the judiciary carry out enforcement or management of projects of the Supreme Judicial Council, with the means of paying their services being provided for in the budget of the project, but the actual payment cannot be made, as the amount of their remuneration together with the amount of all payments for similar activities of the Supreme Judicial Council for external services exceeds the thresholds for free award under the Public Procurement Act, and their division would be unlawful. On the one hand, the above-mentioned situation leads to an inappropriate spending of funds due to the fact that part of the activities which can be implemented with the judiciary's own resources are entrusted to external contractors. They, in turn, employ judges, prosecutors, investigators and judicial officers with a view to the need for specific expertise. On the other hand, the Supreme Judicial Council may rely solely on its members and employees in the administration to be the employer for the award of project management and implementation activities. This legislative proposal will address these difficulties and enable these management and enforcement activities to be carried out directly by current judges, prosecutors, investigators and judicial officers, without violating the rules on eligibility of expenditure and other rules governing the sound financial management of funds from the ESI Funds. After the discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, on the first vote, a bill supplementing the Law on the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds, No 954-01-7, submitted by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 12 February 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u87	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Following is a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you go, Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u88	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the Supplement to the Law on the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds, No 954-01-7, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Lilyana Pavlova, Desislava Valcheva Atanasova and Ivelina Vasilova Vasileva on 12 February 2019. At its meeting held on 20 February 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law supplementing the Law on the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds, No 954-01-7, submitted by the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group on 12 February 2019. The meeting was attended by the Supreme Judicial Council: Mr. Boyan Magdalinchev, Chairman of the SJC, Mrs. Silvia Ilieva, Secretary General, and Mr. Nikolay Naydenov, Director of the Legal Directorate. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Dessislava Atanasova, who pointed out that it aims to create the possibility of the management, technical or financial implementation of the projects of the Supreme Judicial Council financed under the Operational Programme of the European Structural and Investment Funds to be implemented by current judges, prosecutors, investigators and judicial officers in the bodies of the judiciary in compliance with the rules for sound financial management of the funds of the European Structural and Investment Funds. Mrs. Atanasova added that the participation of active magistrates and judicial officers is a mandatory condition for the successful implementation of the projects, but the payment of their wages for their work is difficult by the obligation to implement the Public Procurement Act. It has been noted that there are a number of cases where specific judges, prosecutors, investigators and judicial officers have participated in the implementation or management of projects of the Supreme Judicial Council but are not paid for the services, since the costs of their activities, including external services, exceed the thresholds for free award under the Public Procurement Act. Mr. Magdalinchev recalled that in 2015 the National Assembly approved an updated strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary and Strategy for the introduction of e-government and e-Justice, and added that the funds from the European funds laid down under the Operational Programme "Good Governance" are intended to finance projects under these strategies. It was noted that the Supreme Judicial Council was not only a beneficiary but also a partner in various projects involving the Ministry of Justice, the National Institute of Justice and the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council, focusing on the projects for the preparation of the Single Information Judicial System of the Courts and the prosecutions and for the unification of the sites for the realization of which the participation of magistrates and officers in the judicial authorities is necessary. Following the vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 11 votes for the European Structural and Investment Funds, No 954-01-7, submitted by Danail Kirilov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on February 12, 2019, submitted by Danail Kirilov
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u89	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. Following is the Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Mrs. Vassileva, you're welcome to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u90	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a bill supplementing the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act, No 954-01-7, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 12 February 2019. At its regular meeting held on 27 February 2019, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft for Supplement to the Law on the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds, No 954-01-7, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 12 February 2019. The draft was presented by Mrs. Ivelina Vasileva, Vice-President of KEVKEF. The reasons for the current draft law state that the Supreme Judicial Council implements a number of projects financed mainly under the Operational Programme "Good Governance" as beneficiary or partner with the Ministry of Justice. According to importers, these projects are generally complex in nature and complexity, and this requires the involvement of judges, prosecutors, investigators and judicial officers by the judicial authorities, which is necessary in both management and enforcement teams. Under current regulations, the Supreme Judicial Council may freely entrust management and implementation activities to its members and administration staff only. In the award of such activities to judges, prosecutors, investigators and employees in other judicial bodies, they are considered to be outsiders and are subject to the rules of the Public Procurement Act. The importers point out that this leads to situations in which, in order to use the specific expertise of those persons, the latter cannot be practically paid in so far as the conclusion of a contract with them is to take place through the conduct of a public procurement procedure. This leads to the risk that this contract will be vitiated, in so far as the prior appointment of a contractor in a competitive procedure would, as a rule, be contrary to the spirit and principles of the Public Procurement Act. These persons are, in most cases, designated and approved in the framework of the project concerned, which will make the possible conduct of a procedure under the Public Procurement Act illegal. The importers point out that the situation thus described leads to an inappropriate spending of funds, given that part of the activities which could be implemented with the judiciary's own resources are entrusted to external contractors. The Supreme Judicial Council may rely solely on its members and employees in the administration to whom it is an employer for the award of project management and implementation activities. In this regard, it is stated that this bill aims to create an opportunity for these activities to be carried out directly by current judges, prosecutors, investigators and judicial officers, without violating the rules on eligibility of expenditure and other rules governing the financial management of the funds from the Structural and Investment Funds. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 6 votes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law on the Supplement to the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act, No 954-01-7, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 12 February 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u91	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. Is there an importer's opinion? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, we propose a change to a single provision of a single paragraph of the Law, in the additional provision and the creation of § 6a, which will enable judges, prosecutors, investigators, judicial officers in the judicial authorities to participate in the management of the service, or financial implementation, including to carry out expenditure on projects with a beneficiary or partner of the Supreme Judicial Council. The Supreme Judicial Council implements a number of projects financed mainly by the "Good Governance" Programme as beneficiary or partner of the Ministry of Justice. As a rule and in principle, these projects have a complex nature and complexity which requires the involvement of people with different degrees of expertise, the involvement of judges, prosecutors, investigators, judicial officers in the judiciary bodies, as well as the management teams and the implementation teams. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u93	Colleagues, please take your seats and let's keep this room quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u94	The participation of those persons is a mandatory condition for the successful implementation of the projects because, on the one hand, they are the immediate addressee of the measures referred to in the projects and, on the other hand, they alone have sufficient experience, sufficient expertise, access to operational resources, information and the ability to implement, implement and achieve sustainable results. Under current regulations, the Supreme Judicial Council may freely entrust management and implementation activities to its members and administration staff only. In the award of such activities to judges, prosecutors, investigators and employees in other judicial bodies, the same shall be considered to be outsiders and shall be subject to the provisions of the Public Procurement Act accordingly. That is why we propose to discuss this legislative solution. I hope it will be supported by everyone. In any case, it is also important for the reform of the judiciary and for the implementation of the Good Governance Programme to benefit from the expertise and knowledge of judges, prosecutors, investigators, and this imposed the proposal for legislative change in this single paragraph. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u95	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. Colleagues, please be quiet! You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mrs. Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u96	Madam President, honourable Members! As we well know, in implementing and implementing programmes and projects financed by the ESI Funds, there is a clear order and rules that must be respected, clear principles of financial management and control. The order and rules under which the implementation and implementation of the programmes and projects under the established system of management and control of all funds under the operational programmes, including the Operational Programme "Good management" in our country are regulated by the European and Structural Investment Funds Management Act. With the adoption of this law, we have actually created a very clear order for who are all the participants in this process, both on the one hand, the managing and controlling bodies, and, on the other hand, who are the beneficiaries, what are their rights, responsibilities and powers. The creation and clear regulation and division of the responsibilities of all participants in the process of absorption of European funds has created the opportunity to ensure a clear separation of responsibilities, on the one hand, to ensure good financial management, on the other hand, to ensure compliance with the principle of separation of responsibilities, the principle of.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Last but not least, we should note that in the implementation of projects financed by European funds, except in terms of financial implementation and control of projects, when project beneficiaries carry out their projects, they have a clear and extremely important commitment to compliance with the Public Procurement Act. As the European Public Procurement Directive requires, so, of course, in this particular case, the Bulgarian Public Procurement Act has clear rules on the thresholds for the award of individual public contracts which are regulated in the Law and the activities which include these thresholds. In order for a beneficiary, whether he is a private person, a ministry, or a body of the judiciary, the Supreme Judicial Council, each of the beneficiaries has a commitment in carrying out their project to award a tender... [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u97	Mrs. Pavlova, excuse me for a moment. Colleagues, please! It's too loud in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u98	... for each of the activities, the components for the implementation of the project, each beneficiary is obliged to award a contract, whether the activity concerns the specific implementation of the activities set out in the project or whether it concerns the implementation or management of the project activities. In cases where we are talking about setting out the project management teams, these are teams that are pre-defined, teams that are defined within the staff of the beneficiary concerned, where this is a ministry and when it is pre-defined, let's say, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Environment and Water or any ministry, this is easy to define the employees of the beneficiary department concerned, are defined as a project management team and this team, according to the regulation of the Law, receives its remuneration under the established procedure. In the present case, the proposed amendment and supplement of the Law on the Management of Funds from the European and Structural Investment Funds, § 6a, is actually proposed to supplement the judges and prosecutors and investigators, judicial officers in the judiciary bodies, and the Supreme Judicial Council to also be designated as specific beneficiaries, so that when they participate in programmes and projects, when they are specific beneficiaries under the Good Governance Programme, they can also be included in project teams, also be able to participate in projects and in the same way be able to receive remuneration for their work. Very often, because of the specific nature of the work, the projects on which the judicial authorities are working are also important, specific projects for the judiciary, projects on which only judges, prosecutors, investigators and judicial officers could be the ones who manage the projects could be those who develop the projects or those who participate in the teams for their implementation. In order not to be in a situation where there is a breach of the Public Procurement Act, so that we are not in a situation where there is a breach of the remuneration thresholds and in order not to be in a situation where we are in breach of the principles of good governance, so that we are not in breach of the principles of ineligible expenditure, which could lead to financial corrections, something which, in no case, we would like to allow, our main motive by which we propose this amendment in the Law, because once regulated in the Law, this will enable, without requiring the application of the Public Procurement Act, but directly as specific beneficiaries, all judges, prosecutors, investigators involved in the projects, to be able to receive their remuneration, to participate in the projects and to be eligible expenditure recognised as such and to be paid with the grant funding under the eligibility rules of the Operational Programme. I hope and count on our support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u99	Thank you, dear Mrs. Pavlova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u100	Thank you, Madam President. We have heard the opinion of the importers, we have also heard a statement from one of the importers, perhaps the other importer will be able to justify this proposal. I speak as President of the leading Committee on Budget and Finance, in which we have examined this proposal and adopted it unanimously. I also call on my fellow Members now to support it in this House, because by this amendment, there is actually an injustice facing it. The Good Governance Programme is one of the important programmes for the improvement of administration, of administrative activity in all areas of the state. You know that more often under this programme beneficiaries are different state institutions in the face of ministries and agencies that protect projects and implement projects. In the case of the judicial system, the beneficiary of this programme is the Supreme Judicial Council, which, however, when forming the teams for the implementation of these projects, can only benefit professionals............................ or members of the Supreme Judicial Council without being able to use the capacity, knowledge, capabilities of judges and prosecutors who work in the judiciary but are outside the structure of the Supreme Judicial Council. According to the Public Procurement Act, if these people were drawn into the project and participated in its implementation, they would be external to the beneficiary and he must award these activities through a procedure under the Public Procurement Act, which in this case is extremely complicated and sounds ridiculous. On the other hand, not using the capacity of those people working in places who know the real problems, the real tight spots, the real breakthroughs both in the work of the judiciary and in its relations with other institutions, with the people who are customers of this judicial system, it would not be possible for the programme to fulfil its objective and its content. Therefore, with the adoption of this amendment in the Public Procurement Act, on the one hand, we will enable the Good Governance Programme...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u101	Guys, I don't know why the hall is so excited today. Once again, I'm asking you! Let's be quiet! Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u102	...in the part of the beneficiary High Judicial Council to have the quality of the people involved in the project to have a really qualitative implementation of the programme to fulfill its purpose and all of us to feel the result of this programme. On the other hand, we will also put in a certain level playing field the officials, judges, prosecutors working in the judiciary to participate against payment in these projects, what is decided and is happening for other structures in the executive power, namely ministries, offices and other beneficiaries of the executive sector. My fellow Members, I believe that this is an important proposal, a timely proposal. Now we have to accept it so that we can really give a good start to the Good Governance Programme in the area of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u103	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Replies to Mrs. Stoyanova's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mrs. Vasileva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor as one of the contributors to this bill and as Vice-President of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, realizing that although short, the text of this bill is extremely important. It is important for the successful move of one of the operational programmes, which is directly linked to the objectives not only to provide additional funding to national policies, but also to the Programme, which is important for the implementation of one of the most important reforms, the reform related to the improvement of administration, the introduction of electronic governance and, of course, not least the reform of the judiciary. On yesterday was held the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, during which was discussed the Commission's Annual Report, which contains an overview of the implementation, the progress of all operational programmes financed by the European Investment and Structural Funds in Bulgaria. Of course, I will not go into the presentation of the results in detail relating to the overall progress, although I would very much like to introduce the people's representatives to the successful implementation, I would say that what has been achieved by the managing authorities over the past year gives us full reason to believe that we have an effective and working system for implementation, governance, control of European funds and their use in an efficient way so as to support the implementation of national objectives. 2018 is the year that ends with a good financial performance without losses for the budget, without automatic release of funds something for which our opponents on the left had concerns, expressed them repeatedly and too vocally, but as usual they were disproved by the good work of the government and the Bulgarian administration. I would like to focus, in particular, on the Operational Programme, which reported progress made on 31 December 2018. Given that the Programme's budget is 653 million. BGN, 225 contracts have already been concluded; the agreed funds are 326 million, which accounts for 50% of the budget of the Programme; the funds paid at present amount to 104 million. BGN, which accounts for 15,9% of the general budget of the Programme. These are good results and show a working system. Of course, what we want is more intensive work of both the Managing Authority and the beneficiaries of this programme, so that a satisfactory pace is reached. What we propose in the Draft Law on Supplement to the European Union Fund Management Act is precisely this: one of the priority axes of the "Good Governance" programme, which is specifically aimed at supporting the implementation of the reform of the judiciary, is to be even more accelerated and, of course, lead to the results that we all expect. In short: Priority Axis 3 - the Transparent and Effective Judicial System - aims at introducing the steps set out in the national strategic documents and action plans to be taken to implement the reform of this system. It implements projects that are 33 in number. At present, the agreed funds amount to 30 million, representing 43% of the Programme's budget and, respectively, at the end of last year, the rate of the funds paid is 14. What do I want to focus on, and what is the point of our proposal? As you know, many of the activities and projects under this programme are directly linked to the work of the Supreme Judicial Council, the prosecution, the courts, the administration that serves these bodies and institutions. On 27 February 2017, a procedure for the selection of project proposals aimed at the transparent and effective judicial system was also opened. In fact, the Operational Programme is constantly in contact with the main beneficiaries under this priority axis of the Programme and what is reported by the Managing Authority is the close interaction and partnership in implementing the projects. In continuous working meetings held with representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Judicial Council, it has been discussed, identified and understood the need to update the two road maps after publication of the Report of the Commission to the European Parliament and the Council on Bulgaria's progress on the cooperation and verification mechanism. The update should meet the needs and deficits of the institutions identified as responsible for the implementation of the measures included therein. The main problems identified by the Managing Authority and reported by them on the implementation of the projects are delays in the preparation of tender documents and announcement of public procurement contracts for the selection of contractors under the Public Procurement Act. A large part of the projects of the Ministry of Justice are provided for carrying out procedures for selecting a contractor to develop technical specifications and documentation. All this leads to some delay. You know, there are often appeals that lead to unwanted delays in the deadlines for implementation of programmes and projects. The founding Project under the Axis, which is implemented by the Supreme Judicial Council, is the creation of a model for optimization of the judicial map of the Bulgarian courts and prosecutions and the development of a unified information system of the courts. Unfortunately, it has accumulated delays so far and, to a large extent, this delay is also due to the lack of regulation on the possibility of directly involving judicial officers in the implementation of the projects. It is this weakness that we have no clear regulation and the opportunity to engage the employees who can fulfil the specific tasks set out in the Project. This is what we aim to overcome through the Bill we are proposing. Last but not least, I would also like to share with you the fact that the process for programming the next programming period is already underway and the formulation of the new thematic objectives that will be laid down in the regulations. What is clear at this time is that there is a concentration of the thematic objectives that will be set in the operational programmes, and this concentration will lead to a reduction in the number of thematic objectives that will be supported by European funding in the next programming period. In this sense, the thematic goal will also be dropped. The administrative capacity will be the basis for the creation, existence and implementation of the Operational Program. It is therefore extremely important that we fully realise the opportunities that this programme gives us during the current programming period, that we use the opportunity to help reform the judiciary through the financing of the Operational Programme "Good governance" so that we can take good results into account to the public as well. In this sense, I hope that our bill will be supported by all MPs. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u105	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Kirilov, we won't have time, so I'll give it a rest. After that, you will be the first to speak. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u106	Colleagues, let's get back to work. Here you are, dear Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will start by thanking fellow contributors because on this subject it has really attracted participation, commitment, support and we have witnessed this support from MPs who have proven undisputed experience in the management of project funds and investment funds. I thank the importers for their support. I believe that their analysis of the subject was extremely competent and timely. I would like to specify, although the speaker Mrs. Vasileva, mentioned, let us say, the most significant, the most promising projects on which the Supreme Judicial Council is working, but I will focus on why they are important and what the consequences of these two are, I will call them, the main draft for the judiciary. The first project concerns the creation of a new judicial map of the Republic of Bulgaria. You know that with regard to the regional, territorial distribution of courts in view of their workload there is substantial disproportion, and we have an extreme overload of the courts that are in Sofia and in large cities, unlike the courts that are in smaller municipalities and districts. In addition, the proportion and ratio related to the distribution of cases at the lowest level of the district courts should be refined. You were witnessed no more than a year ago what were the reactions of the local government then, when quite unfounded, and I would say, very preliminary statements were heard in the direction: this or that district court will be closed, although it has never been discussed the option of closure, of such a consolidation, where in the dominant district centre will remain the seat of the regional court, but the other settlements will not remain without coverage of the justice system. There will be an office in which an archive will be kept, in which there will be a courtroom and legal proceedings, so that you can look at at at least a few cases a week. The preliminary panel of the Supreme Judicial Council failed to complete the Judicial Card. Correctly said Mrs. Vasileva that there was a delay in both projects, there is a delay, but it is not a stop, it is not an end. In my opinion, a great achievement of the judicial system is the opportunity to receive support under the Operational Programme "Good governance" - including from other donors of funds that help the development of the judiciary and the implementation of judicial reform. The second extremely important project, which is funded by project funds and from which we have huge serious expectations, is the electronization of the judiciary and e-Justice. It is approaching the expiry of the time limits established by law in order to become fully electronic justice, to stop the practice of storing paper cases, which requires really making serious technological progress, training staff and, of course, the construction of electronic information infrastructure, so that this volume is taken over first, in cases, and secondly, of information between different users. You know that in a few months time will come for one of the phases of e-Justice Here I believe that all authorities should provide assistance, assistance and support to the judiciary, including the participation of professional communities. We rely on the fact that counseling will also help carry out the first steps, and lawyers will be among the first users of electronic services in the electronic space of electronic justice. So it is important for these projects to actually participate as wide a range of magistrates as possible, judges, prosecutors, investigators, as I would say, and the usual, typical users and communicators with the judiciary. It is good that the Council of Ministers has reached an agreement with the Supreme Judicial Council. I am using this case to draw your attention a little bit further from the topic and that under the Operational Program "Good management" other projects have been assigned in connection with judicial reform, which are carried out by NGOs, for the result of whose work, however, we do not have any data. Including circumstantial data. Let's just say that our legislative activity has also been the subject of research by such government organizations, paid with the funds of the Operational Program. I'll limit my speech here. Thank you to the contributors, and thank you for the debate in the other committees, we will look forward to the second reading on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. We're closing the debate. We'll move on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill supplementing the Law on the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds with No 954-01-7, submitted by the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. Vote 84 MPs: 81 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members, we continue with the next item of the Work Programme: PROJECT OF THE ANNUAL WORKING PROGRAM OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON EUROPEAN UNION'S QUESTIONS FOR 2019 The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds is the importer. The presentation of the committees' reports begins with the Committee on Budget and Finance. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds is the leading one, which will present the project to us as well. The next is on legal issues and then on economic policy and tourism. Who's gonna present the report? Here you are, dear Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe on the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. At a meeting held on 7 February 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that Annual Programme. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance Ms. Marinela Petrova Deputy Minister Ludmila Petkova Director of the Department of Tax Policy and Tsvetanka Mihailova Director of the Directorate of Financial Markets. The annual programme was presented by Mrs. Petrova. On the initiatives presented by European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker's speech on the state of the European Union, all the legislative proposals needed to achieve a positive change on the ten priorities of the European Commission for the period 2014 - 2019. Following the European Commission's agenda in 2019, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds to include in the draft National Assembly's Annual Programme on European Union Affairs for 2019 the following legislative acts on which the National Assembly, respectively the Budget and Finance Committee, will continue to monitor and monitor: 1. Proposal for a Council Regulation laying down the Multiannual Financial Framework for the years 2021 - 2027 2. Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of the Reform Support Programme. 3. Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of a European Investment Stabilisation function. 4. Proposal for a Council Directive amending Directive 2006/112/EC as regards the introduction of detailed technical measures on the functioning of the final system of VAT for the taxation of trade between Member States. 5. Proposal for a Council Directive on a common consolidated corporate tax base. The proposals for legislative acts to be included in the Annual Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs for 2019 were supported by:..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u110	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs follows. You have the floor, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "COMMODITY" on the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. At its regular meeting on 6 February 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs examined the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Biljana Beljakova, Director of the Department of International Legal Cooperation and European Affairs at the Ministry of Justice. Mrs. Belyakova presented the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, focusing on the topics the Ministry of Justice has set up in the area of Justice. The first topic proposed in the Annual Programme is related to the amendments to Council Regulation (EC) No 2201/2003 of 27 November 2003 on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgments in marital matters and cases relating to parental liability, which repealed Regulation (EC) No 1347/2000, called the Brussels IIa (Regulation). Regulation Brussels IIa lays down uniform rules for jurisdiction in divorce, legal separation and declaration of invalidity of marriage, as well as disputes concerning parental responsibility in cross-border situations. The amendment of the Regulation aims to improve the mechanisms in force for the return of children kidnapped by their parents and to facilitate the procedure for the recognition of judicial acts in the family area. The second topic is related to improving cross-border access to electronic evidence, increasing the speed of their exchange and facilitating the competent authorities in the implementation of this process, making two legislative proposals - Regulation on European orders for the provision and retention of electronic evidence in criminal matters and Directive establishing harmonised rules for determining a representative for the purpose of collecting evidence in the criminal process. Following the vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 12 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and 6 votes, adopted the Annual Programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union's decision-making process in 2019, No 902"3 tabled by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019, supporting it in its entirety.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u112	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Following is the opinion of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Mrs. Saveklieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u113	Thank you, Madam President. "COMMODITY" on the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. At its regular meeting on 6 February 2019, the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee examined the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019 in the following areas of its competence: Consumer protection There is an amendment to four directives which protect the economic interests of consumers. The subject of the misleading offering of dual quality products in different Member States concerns an amendment of the existing Directive 2005/29/EC on unfair practices of traders against consumers, which the Republic of Bulgaria supports. This will enable the supply of a product identical to the same product when the composition or characteristics of those products differ substantially, to be classified as misleading commercial practice. At the same time, the Bulgarian side defends the position that the proposed amendments to the Consumer Rights Directive should not lead to a reduction of consumer rights when exercising the right to refuse contracts concluded at a distance and outside the commercial premises. Commercial policy In 2019 Bulgaria will work for the rapid conclusion of free trade agreements and for the protection of investments with Singapore, Vietnam, Mexico, Australia, New Zealand, Indonesia, China and others, as well as for the effective implementation of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and Japan. After presenting and discussing the Annual Programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, a vote was held, which ended with the following results:........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopts the Annual Programme for the Participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Decision-making Process of the European Union in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019, supporting it in its entirety.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u114	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveklieva. Mr. Dobrev will brief us on the opinion of the Energy Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! "COMMODITY" on the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. At its regular meeting on 31 January 2018, the Energy Commission discussed the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. Mr. Zhecho Stankov attended the meeting of the Ministry of Energy. Mr. Stankov presented the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union in 2019, focusing on the topics in part.......................................................................................................... The first topic is the Energy Union with a future climate policy. The Energy Union is a key priority of the European Commission, which closely intertwines five dimensions: energy security, solidarity and trust; integrated European energy market; energy efficiency; decarbonisation of the economy; research, innovation and competitiveness. In April 2019 the European Commission is to publish its fourth annual Energy Union Status Report. Fundamentally important for achieving the goals of the Energy Union has the legislative package of the European Commission "Clean energy for all." By publication of 21 December 2018 in the Official Journal of the European Union of the adopted legislative proposals from the first subpackage relating to energy efficiency, renewable energy and energy management, and with the arrangements reached on the proposals relating to the electricity market model, the European Union is progressing in finalising the regulatory framework for achieving the objectives by 2030. Bulgaria supports the establishment of a European Energy Union and the implementation of a coordinated and balanced policy as a prerequisite for creating a sustainable and predictable environment for investors, generating benefits for citizens and businesses and ensuring conditions for a competitive energy market. In this context, we support adequate measures to ensure a high level of security in the supply of energy to citizens and businesses in the European Union in an effective way and at an affordable price, subject to European rules. The second theme is the reform of the ECSC Treaty. The aim is to adapt the new realities facing the nuclear sector, including an increase in the volume of projects covering the final stage of the nuclear fuel cycle, including decommissioning, the increasing use of nuclear energy applications in different sectors of the economy that are not covered by the Treaty, mainly due to their non-existence at the time of its establishment. Decommissioning, managing spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste is governed by European nuclear law, whether or not the national energy mix involves nuclear energy at the time. In this context, the EMFF Treaty is essential for ensuring nuclear safety and radiation protection at European Union level, which all citizens of Europe benefit from. Bulgaria, as a country with an active nuclear programme, has proven 40 years of service and research experience and a strong commitment to the development of nuclear applications, is directly interested in any proposal for a change in the current status quo. For this reason, it will closely monitor and analyse the development of the process and will actively participate since its initiation. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote, the Energy Committee with 20 votes for the European Union, without votes, proposed to the National Assembly that the National Assembly adopt the Annual Programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union's decision-making process in 2019, No 902"3 tabled by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019 by supporting it in its entirety.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u116	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. The report of the Committee on Foreign Policy follows. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Foreign Policy on the Presentation of the Annual Programme for the Participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Decision-making Process of the European Union in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019, and adoption of proposals for the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues in accordance with art. 118, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly At a regular meeting held on 13 February 2019, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, adopted by decision of the Council of Ministers No 40 of 24 January 2019. The program was presented by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mrs. Emilia Kraleva. In accordance with Article 105, para. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Council of Ministers informs the National Assembly in advance and gives an account of its actions when participating in the development and adoption of acts of the European Union. Under the Treaty of Lisbon, national parliaments are given an enhanced role in the decision-making process by the European Union and, accordingly, greater influence in the formulation of European policies. In this regard, the National Assembly's Annual Work Programme on European Union Affairs contains a list of the draft acts of the institutions of the European Union on which the National Assembly carries out monitoring and control. On the basis of the presented annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process and taking into account the European Commission Work Programme for 2019 and the proposed legislative and non-legal initiatives, the Committee on Foreign Policy in the framework of its competences proposes that the draft of the National Assembly's Annual Work Programme on European Union Affairs should be included. The initiative is illegal and tracks progress towards achieving full visa reciprocity with the United States of America, which remained the only third country on the list of visa-free countries for the European Union, which does not provide visa-free access for all citizens of Member States of the European Union. The visa reciprocity initiative is of particular importance as Bulgaria is one of the five Member States concerned whose citizens still need a visa to travel to the United States of America. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the proposal was adopted by 14 votes for
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u118	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. I now give the floor to the Defence Committee Report. Come again, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll introduce you to: ♪ I can't believe of the Defence Committee on the Annual Programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. At a meeting held on 7 February 2019, the Defence Committee examined the Annual Programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Defence Anatoly Velichkov, who presented the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union in 2019. No proposals were made in the exhibition and in the course of the discussion by MPs to include draft acts of the institutions of the European Union in the National Assembly's Annual Programme on European Union Affairs for 2019 to carry out parliamentary monitoring and control. In the subsequent vote with 20 votes for the defence committee adopted the following opinion: Having examined the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019 and the European Commission Work Programme for 2019, found that no specific proposals for the inclusion of draft acts of the Defence Committee's competence in the National Assembly's Annual Work Programme on European Union issues for 2019 came forward.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u120	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. The report of the Commission on Agriculture and Food follows. Here you go, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I present to your attention ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 7 February 2019 discussing the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. The meeting also discussed which initiatives from the Annexes to the European Commission Work Programme for 2019 to propose for inclusion in the National Assembly's Annual Work Programme on European Union Affairs for 2019. The meeting was attended by Tsvetelina Katsarska, Chief Expert at the Directorate for Coordination and International Relations at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The annual programme was prepared in implementation of the obligation of the Council of Ministers to inform the National Assembly in advance about its participation in the development and adoption of European Union acts and on the Bulgarian positions in the discussion of the country's priority issues. Following the discussion, taking into account the European Commission Work Programme for 2019 and taking into account that for the initiatives of the competence of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, the time limits for issuing national parliaments to comply with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality have expired and the opinion of Bulgaria will not be taken into account by the institutions of the European Union when examining the relevant act, the Committee on Agriculture and Food with 13 votes
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u122	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dimova. Here you go, Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! At its regular meeting on 31 January 2019, the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission discussed and discussed the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019 adopted by Decision No 40 of the Council of Ministers and submitted on 24 January 2019. Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov from the Ministry of Justice attended the meeting, who presented the preamble to the Program, which is adopted in implementation of art. 105, para. 1 and 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, according to which the Council of Ministers implements the internal and foreign policy of the country in accordance with the Constitution and in implementation of art. 1, para. 1, t. 2 of Decree No 85 of the Council of Ministers of 17 April 2007 on coordination on European Union issues. The programme has been developed in accordance with the European Commission Work Programme for 2019, the priorities of the Troika Presidency of the European Union - Romanian, Finnish and Croatian, from 1 January 2019 to 30 June 2020, as well as the Programme of the Romanian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, which currently runs from 1 January to 30 June 2019. Most priority issues on the European agenda that are relevant to the country during the current year and require formulating the national interest for each of them are well covered in the proposed annual programme. In view of its subject-matter and its activities and observations over the past year, the Commission for the Fight against Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics considers that in order to ensure maximum coordination and effective participation of our country at all levels in the decision-making process of the European Union, the consistent implementation of European policies and the achievement of positive results in this regard, it is necessary to include the topic concerning the fight and prevention of corruption at national and European level in the priority topics and positions of the Annual Programme. Corruption is a major threat to the security and optimal and full functioning of the state apparatus and all spheres of public life, which is why it is necessary to focus on the implementation and reporting of action on the implementation of a policy of prevention and countering corruption behaviour in the proposed initiatives in the priority areas of European Union policy. The members of the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission agreed unanimously to support the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union for 2019 in order to continue to implement policies aimed at achieving the approved national objectives under the Europe 2020 Strategy. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out by 9 votes for the European Union, without abstention, the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Committee supports the Annual Programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process for 2019 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. 118, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, according to which the Standing Committees are envisaged to work out their proposals by competence, the proposal of our Commission is in two points: the establishment of a separate section called "Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption" in the content of the Programme; and the inclusion of the topic "Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption" in the field of the fight against serious and organised crime and terrorism, and progress in building the Union of Security.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u124	Thank you, dear Mr. Yachev. Now, Mr. Tachev, welcome to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u125	Madam President, honourable Members! I'll introduce you to: "COMMODITY" on the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. At its regular meeting on 27 February 2019, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. The programme has been developed in accordance with the European Commission Work Programme for 2019. The priorities of the Troika Presidency of the Council of the European Union "Romania, Finland and Croatia" from 1 January 2019 to 30 June 2020 and the Programme of the Romanian Presidency of the Council of the EU from 1 January to 30 June 2019. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Interior Krasimir Tsipov Deputy Minister of Interior, and Nikolay Danovski expert in the Directorate of the European Union and International Cooperation. On behalf of the importer, the Annual Programme was presented by Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, who outlined the following priorities for building an effective and genuine Union of Security. First, Migration Management. The management of all aspects of migration will continue to be a key priority in 2019. The topic is very important, as it concerns a wide range of issues, among which the prevention of illegal migration, the management of legal migration, the reform of the asylum system, the fight against the smuggling of migrants, border control, return, external dimension and others. Discussions on the reform of the asylum system and, in particular, Dublin Regulation will be of key importance. The Romanian Presidency is directing the work towards establishing temporary arrangements to find a lasting solution. Bulgaria does not support this approach. We call for the work to continue to establish a comprehensive pan-European response to migration challenges, which takes into account the interests of all Member States and ensures a balance between responsibility and solidarity. We also continue to insist on maintaining the package approach throughout the legislative package. Secondly, Bulgaria's accession to the Schengen area. Schengen membership continues to be an up-to-date political priority for Bulgaria and we are using every opportunity to put this issue. Actions to change the positions of the reserved Member States will continue. At the same time, the possible development on the subject is linked to many factors such as: completing the reform of the asylum system; the extent of migration pressure; threats to security and restoring the normal functioning of Schengen. It will also have the configuration of political forces in the European Union following the elections to the European Parliament and the subsequent election of a new European Commission. Thirdly, combating serious and organised crime and terrorism. Work at European Union level for a more effective fight against serious and organised crime will continue, and actions will be oriented around the political cycle of the European Union. With regard to the fight against terrorism and radicalisation, measures will focus on addressing the issue of returning foreign fighters. By the end of the current European Parliament's mandate, several legislative proposals are expected to be adopted, which will further strengthen the capacity of law enforcement authorities. These are the draft regulation on combating terrorist content online and the draft directive on the use of financial information for the purpose of combating certain serious crimes. At the same time, the preparation of Member States to implement the interoperability of European information systems will take place at a more intensive stage. Bulgaria will continue to work for a more effective and timely exchange of information between the Member States and the European agencies in the fight against transnational crime and terrorism. We will support the rapid adoption of these acts and the strengthening of cooperation between competent structures. People's representatives Valentin Radev and Tsvetan Tsvetanov took part in the debates, who expressed support for the Bulgarian policy related to the illegal migration process, as well as the policies reflected in the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union in 2019. As a result of the debates held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 11 votes for the Council of Ministers and 1 abstention supported the Annual Programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union in 2019, No 902
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Tachev. The report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy follows. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! "COMMODITY" of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee on the Annual Programme for the Participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Decision-making Process of the European Union in 2019, No 902 00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. The Labour and Social Policy Committee at its regular meeting held on 13 February 2019 discussed and discussed the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process for 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. The annual programme was adopted by Decision No 40 of the Council of Ministers of 24 January 2019. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Zornitsa Rusinova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and Mr. Alexei Andreev, Director of the Directorate of European Affairs and International Cooperation. In preparing concrete proposals, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy shall take into account the priorities set out in the Annual Programme for the Participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Decision-making Process of the European Union submitted by the Council of Ministers as well as in the Working Programme of the European Commission for 2019. After a vote of 18 votes held on the basis of art. Paragraph 118. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly in the sphere of its competence, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee proposes that the following draft acts of the European institutions should be included in the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union matters for 2019: firstly, the promotion of the candidacy of the Republic of Bulgaria as the seat of the European Labour Authority; and secondly, Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Social Fund plus. That act has not yet been formally adopted. This is expected to happen by the end of 2019. The European Commission proposal was published on 30 May 2018 and the consultations on the texts of the Draft Regulation continue. As Managing Authority we provide on a regular basis opinions on the various texts in the framework of the consultations in the working groups coordinated by the Ministry of Finance and the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Next is the Report of the Committee on Education and Science. Here you are, Mrs. Maleškova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u129	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe on the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. At its regular meeting on 6 February 2019, the Education and Science Committee examined the Annual Programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Karina Angelievna, Deputy Minister of Education and Science. The Vice-President of the Committee on Education and Science Galya Zaharieva explained to the members of the Commission the procedure for discussing the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union submitted by the Council of Ministers, according to art. 118 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Deputy Minister Karina Angeleva noted that the Annual Programme prioritizes the files on which there is a legislative process, and for this year the focus is in the research and innovation sector. She explained that the education sector was not included in the Annual Programme, but stressed the importance of three documents. The first document is a proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down provisions for the continuation of the ongoing learning mobility activities under the Other documents to be worked on are Recommendation on high quality education and care systems in early childhood and Recommendation on a comprehensive approach to teaching and learning languages. Deputy Minister Karina Angeleva proposed to the members of the Committee on Education and Science that a hearing be organised to present the main thematic areas of development and future partnerships in the science sector, where Bulgaria will participate. It was specified that this hearing should take place in March. After a vote with results:............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The President of the Committee on Education and Science Milena Damyanova proposed that the annual work programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues be included for monitoring the three documents referred to by Mrs. Karina Angelieva, namely: a proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down provisions for the continuation of the current activities for learning mobility under the After a vote with results: the Committee on Education and Science adopted the proposed three documents to be included in the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly for 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Maleshkova. We are ready to hear the Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government Report. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! At its regular meeting held on 21 February 2019, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government does not propose draft acts of the institutions of the European Union to be included in the annual work programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues for 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u132	Is that the report? Thank you. [[Radio, applause]] You've been brief and thorough. Following is the Commission's report on children, youth and sport. You're welcome to brief us on the Commission Report, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u133	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At a regular meeting held on 6 February 2019, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports discussed the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process for 2019 adopted by Decision No 40 of the Council of Ministers of 2019. When preparing proposals for the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues, the Working Programme of the European Commission for 2019 should also be taken into account, as set out in art. 118 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The 15 new initiatives of the Commission Programme, as well as the ten suitability and effectiveness initiatives of the 2019 Regulatory Framework, do not include legislative or non-legal initiatives which are within the framework of the Commission's initiative. After a vote, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, with 12 votes for In the course of its competence, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports has no proposal for inclusion and to be monitored and supervised acts of the European institutions in the National Assembly's Annual Work Programme for 2019 and accepts it as an information.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u134	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Following is the opinion of the Committee on Health. Dr. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u135	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! "COMMODITY" on the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019, and proposals for the National Assembly's Annual Programme on European Union Affairs for 2019. At its regular meeting held on 28 February 2019, the Health Committee examined and discussed the Annual Programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. The meeting was attended by the Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Boyko Penkov, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. The annual programme shall be adopted in accordance with art. 105, para. 1 and 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 118 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The programme shall be developed in accordance with the priorities of the Troika Presidency of the Council of the European Union, as well as the European Commission Work Programme for 2019. In the field of health in 2019, discussions will continue on the proposal for a Health Technology Assessment Regulation initially presented during the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, which aims to harmonise common clinical assessments. The negotiations on the file are essential for Bulgaria, given the expected negative consequences, if key elements of the proposal are preserved, such as the mandatory nature of joint clinical assessments, limiting the exclusive national competence in the field of pricing and reimbursing, budgetary reflection and others. The Republic of Bulgaria is active in the negotiations on the dossier, together with a group of other Member States, with a position against the mandatory nature of cooperation in the field of health technology assessment. A priority topic for Bulgaria is the establishment of a format for exchange of European electronic health records. Changes to delegated legislation regarding the eHealth Network shall be envisaged, with the objective of integration being to link health processes into a single system with the possibility of exchanging and controlling real-time information, including electronic patient record, electronic authentication, registers of the main actors in the healthcare system and connectivity between them. In the course of the discussion, it was found that the European Commission Work Programme for 2019, Annex I: On the basis of the discussion held and the vote taken with 12 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 118, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly adopted the following opinion: Having regard to the Annual Programme for the Participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Decision-making Process of the European Union in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019 and the European Commission Work Programme for 2019, the Committee on Health does not propose the inclusion of draft acts of the institutions of the European Union in the National Assembly's Annual Working Programme on European Union Affairs for 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u136	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. This was the opinion of the Committee on Health. The opinion of the Committee on the Environment and Water follows. Please let us know the opinion of the Commission, Mr. Matsurev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u137	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention. "COMMODITY" of the Committee on the Environment and Waters on the Annual Programme for the Participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Decision-making Process of the European Union in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. At a meeting held on 7 February 2019, the Environment and Water Committee examined the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. The meeting discussed which initiatives from Annexes I and III to the European Commission Work Programme for 2019 were to be proposed for inclusion in the National Assembly's Annual Working Programme on European Union issues for 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Environment and Water: Neno Dimov The annual programme was prepared in implementation of the obligation of the Council of Ministers to inform the National Assembly in advance about its participation in the development and adoption of European Union acts and on the Bulgarian positions in the discussion of the country's priority issues. In Annex I to the Work Programme of the European Commission for 2019 in the area of "Climate" it is an interest of the non-legal initiative "Strategic strategy for the long-term reduction of EU greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the Paris Agreement." The long-term vision presented is an appropriate basis for a thorough discussion, and political decisions at the highest level will establish a solid basis for the European Union's long-term strategy. There are no proposals in the strategy to change the established commitments by 2030, but the Union's capabilities to build up and develop timely policies with a view to 2050. Our country will maintain its position that it cannot definitely accept further revision or increase the European Union's ambition in terms of the established objectives by 2030. In Annex III to the European Commission Work Programme for 2019 in the area of the circular economy package and within the Commission's competence are the following legislative initiatives: 1. Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on minimum requirements for the reuse of water. 2. Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the quality of water intended for human consumption. Following the discussion, taking into account the European Commission Work Programme for 2019, the Committee on Environment and Waters with 18 votes for In the circle of its competence and on the grounds of art. 118, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose that the following non-legal initiative be included in the National Assembly's Annual Work Programme on European Union Affairs for 2019: A strategy for the long-term reduction of EU greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the Paris Agreement. A strategy for long-term reduction of EU greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the Paris Agreement. A strategy for long-term reduction of EU greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u138	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. We are about to hear the Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Here you are, Mr. Tashkov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u139	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the Annual Programme for the Participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Decision-making Process of the European Union in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. A Annual Programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019 was discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 13 February 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Angel Popov, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Ms. Nadezhda Buhova, Director of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. In his presentation Mr. Popov noted that the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union is adopted in implementation of art. 105, para. 1 and 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 118 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, as well as in the implementation of art. 1, para. 1, t. 2 of Decree No 85 of the Council of Ministers of 17 April 2007 on coordination on European Union issues. The annual programme sets out the issues on the European agenda, which are of priority importance to the country during the current year and formulates the national interest on each of them. Deputy Minister Popov stressed that Bulgaria will continue to stand up for its position in 2019 to find fair and balanced solutions on the main issues of the Mobility Package I. The efforts will continue to protect the progress made during the Council of Ministers of Transport in the European Union on 3 December last year, namely the dropping of the return of the vehicle to its place of registration. Bulgaria will insist on taking into account the specifics of the international transport sector, the geographical position of peripheral Member States, the desire to reduce empty rates and fundamental freedoms in the European Union. Mr. Popov focused on another important topic... Britain's exit from the European Union. The Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications has taken concrete action in the event of the UK's withdrawal from the EU without agreement. Bulgaria supports the Community approach and actively participates in the working groups to agree on the establishment of a Regulation on basic land connectivity and on two regulations in air transport and on basic air connectivity and on technical aspects in aviation that concern aviation safety. At present, our country is abstaining from bilateral negotiations, as is the recommendation of the European Commission, but at the same time it is ready to hold such negotiations at the moment when the United Kingdom becomes a third country towards the European Union. Mr Popov informed the members of the Commission that, according to the opinion of the Legal Service of the Ministry of Transport of the UK, an exchange of notes is envisaged to confirm that the two existing agreements in both sectors, albeit obsolete, will be the legal basis on which they will step to avoid interruption of air, respectively land connectivity until a solution is found. After the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 11 votes for the Council of Ministers and 9 votes abstentions adopted, for information, an annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u140	Thank you, Mr. Tashkov. Who will introduce us to the Report of the Committee on Culture and Media? Here you are, Mrs. Sawateva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u141	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll introduce you. "COMMODITY" on the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. At a regular meeting held on 7 February 2019, the Culture and Media Committee discussed the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. The programme was developed in accordance with the Working Programme of the European Commission for 2019, the priorities of the Troika Presidency of the Council of the European Union, Romania, Finland and Croatia (1 January 2019. 30 June 2020) and the Programme of the Romanian Presidency of the Council of the EU (January 1st - June 30th 2019) The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Culture Amelia Gesheva Deputy Minister, and Vesela Shterevska Secretary. On behalf of the importer, the Annual Programme was presented by Mrs Amelia Gesheva. Following the debates held, the Culture and Media Committee unanimously supported by 15 votes for the Annual Programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019, and on the basis of art. 118, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly finds that projects of acts of the European Union for 2019 do not fall within the competence of the Commission, which is why it does not propose projects for inclusion in the annual work programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues for 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. Let's hear the Commission report on interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Here you are, Mr. Subev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. The Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints at a regular meeting held on 7 February 2019 discussed and discussed the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. The annual programme was adopted by Decision No 40 of the Council of Ministers of 24 January 2019. During the meeting spoke the MPs Anton Kutev and Milena Damyanova. President Anton Kutev told the members that the Commission was given the opportunity in its competence to propose in the National Assembly's annual work programme for 2019 to be included as subject to monitoring and control acts of the European institutions. These are the acts in an annex to the European Commission Work Programme for 2019, namely Annex I - New Commission initiatives. On them, the National Assembly may exercise control of compliance with the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality. This right of national parliaments derives from art. 12 of the Treaty on European Union. The Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints may consider acts in the field of Justice and Home Affairs, e.g. related to the citizens' initiative. In this regard Mr. Kutev pointed out that there are points in the Annual Programme concerning the Commission, but there is a problem with expired deadlines on which proposals should have been submitted, such as on the European Citizens' Initiative. That period was until 13 September 2017, and on 12 December 2018, the European Parliament and the Council had already reached political agreement on the Commission's proposals to review the European Citizens' Initiative. Mr. Kutev pointed out that attention should be paid to the issue of time limits because, in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty on European Union, national parliaments actively contribute to the good functioning of the Union by ensuring compliance with the principle of subsidiarity in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Protocol on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. Ms. Milena Damyanova expressed her opinion that the Annual Programme should be adopted for information and a note of the deadlines should be made to take it into account by the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, and it may be proposed to include in the Annual Programme draft acts, for example for monitoring. On the basis of the discussion carried out and following the vote, the Commission on the interaction with non-governmental organisations and the citizens' complaints with 16 votes............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u144	Thank you, Mr. Subev. We are about to get acquainted with the Report of the Commission on Religions and Human Rights. Here you are, you have the floor, Mrs. Alexieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u145	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! "COMMODITY" on the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. At its regular meeting held on 7 February 2019, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights examined the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. The Members of the Commission expressed their support for the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the process of taking decisions of the European Union for 2019 submitted by the Council of Ministers in the discussions also took into account the European Commission Work Programme for 2019 and adopted it for information. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights has no proposal to include European institutions' monitoring and control acts in the National Assembly's annual work programme for 2019. The opinion was adopted by 7 votes............................. and 4 votes.........................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Alexieva. Following is a Report of the Commission on the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. Mr. Lazarov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman! "COMMODITY" on the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. At its meeting held on 27 February 2019, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications discussed the annual programme for participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019. The annual programme shall be drawn up in accordance with the established in art. 105, para. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria an obligation of the Council of Ministers to inform the National Assembly in advance about its participation in the development and adoption of acts of the European Union and on the Bulgarian positions in the discussion of the country's priority issues. In the 2019 Annual Programme, the priorities for the Commission's activities are contained in the part entitled Fighting serious and organised crime and terrorism and progress in building the Union of Security. It envisions continuing effective efforts at European Union level to build an effective and genuine Union of security. The measures to counter terrorism and radicalisation are planned to continue, including with the security services in cooperation with the EU Counter-Terrorism Coordinator, European agencies and other involved structures. Our country sees security as a key priority, which is why we should continue the work of building a more efficient and timely information exchange, including finalising the work on the interoperability of information systems, as well as the practical implementation of security systems. The efforts will continue to structure cooperation in the prevention of radicalisation, as well as the timely establishment of foreign fighters and the taking of appropriate measures against them. The six-month programme with priority topics and files for the Republic of Bulgaria during the Romanian Presidency of the Council of the European Union provides for political agreement on the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council to prevent the spread of terrorist content online, 2018/0331. As a result of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of the Special Intelligence Funds and the access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications with 4 votes......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In view of the Commission's competence, no concrete proposals for the inclusion of draft acts in the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs for 2019 are drawn up.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u148	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Next is the Report of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. Mr. Bikov, you have the floor to brief us on the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u149	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! "COMMODITY" of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad on the Annual Programme for the Participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Decision-making Process of the European Union in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. The Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad at a regular meeting held on 8 February 2019 discussed and discussed the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. The annual programme was adopted by Council of Ministers Decision No 40 of 24 January 2019. When considering the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019, the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad became acquainted with the priorities and policies underlying it. The Commission has no proposals for amendments and additions to the Annual Programme proposed by the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. After a vote with results: the Commission adopted the Annual Programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u150	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Report of the Commission for Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling. You have the floor, Mr. Tinchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u151	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! "COMMODITY" to the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling on the Annual Programme for the Participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Decision-making Process of the European Union in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. At its regular meeting on 29 January 2019, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling examined the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019, No 902-00-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. In the discussion the Members of the National Assembly also took into account the European Commission Work Programme for 2019. The members of the Commission expressed their support for the Annual Programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process in 2019. The Committee for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling has no proposals for the inclusion of European institutions' monitoring and control acts in the National Assembly's Annual Work Programme for 2019 and was adopted by 10 votes for......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u152	Thank you, Mr. Tinchev. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds report remains to be heard, as well as the draft decision that we will discuss and vote at today's meeting. Mrs. Vasileva, come in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u153	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the draft Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs, 2019 At its regular meeting held on 27 February 2019, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds on the basis of art. Chapter XI of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly discussed and adopted the draft Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs for 2019. The draft Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs has been developed in accordance with the priorities set out in the Annual Programme for the Participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union Decision-making process in 2019 adopted by Decision No 40 of the Council of Ministers of 2019; the Working Programme of the European Commission for 2019 published on 23 October 2018 and the proposals made by the Permanent Parliamentary Committees of the National Assembly. In accordance with art. 118, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly The annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union was submitted to the National Assembly by the Council of Ministers on 24 January 2019. Within the three-week period laid down in art. 118, para. 2, it has been examined by 19 out of 22 permanent parliamentary committees, one of which has not provided a report. According to bets in art. 118, para. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds should draw up a draft Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs for 2019 by 1 March 2019. In its 2019 Work Programme, the European Commission proposes 15 new initiatives and 10 initiatives under the Fitness and Effectiveness Programme of the Regulatory Framework, in line with the ten priorities set by President Jean-Claude Juncker for the period 2015 - 2019: - new incentives for jobs, growth and investment; - a digital single market; - a sustainable energy union with a future-oriented climate change policy; - a deeper and fairer internal market with an enhanced industrial base; - deeper and fairer economic and monetary union; - a reasonable and balanced free trade agreement with the United States of America; - an area of justice and fundamental rights built on mutual trust; - to the establishment of a new migration policy; - a stronger player on the world stage; - an alliance of democratic change. The annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union in 2019 was presented by Mr. Rusi Ivanov, Director-General of the Directorate-General for Foreign Affairs, Mrs. Selver Halil, Acting Director of the Directorate of Politics and Institutions of the European Union and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; Mrs. Petya Vasileva, Director of the European Union Directorate for Coordination in the Administration of the Council of Ministers; Ms. Mariana Vasileva and Mr. Vladimir Nedyalkov, State experts in the same Directorate. The work programme of the European Commission was presented by Mr. Ognian Zlatev, Head of the European Commission Representation in Bulgaria. The following considerations were also taken into account in the preparation of the draft Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs for 2019: - Checks for compliance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality of the European legislative proposals included in the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues for 2019 will be carried out by active exercise of the powers of the National Assembly under Protocol 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU); - Since 2019 is the last year of the current European Commission's mandate, the European Commission Work Programme for 2019 contains a limited number of legislative initiatives. As a result, the draft annual work programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues included predominantly draft acts of non-legal nature. - It should be borne in mind that due to the significant time gap between the publication of the Commission Work Programme for 2019. (October 2018) and the adoption by the Council of Ministers of the Annual Programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union in 2019. (January 2019)), the period laid down in Protocol 2 to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union has expired on a number of draft acts of the European Commission. In this regard, the draft annual work programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues for 2019 does not include the proposals made by the Standing Committees for which this period has already expired. After the discussion the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds took place on the basis of art. 118, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose unanimously, with 7 votes for the National Assembly, to adopt the following Decision for the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs for 2019: ? RESPONSIBILITY? The National Assembly on the basis of art. 105, para. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 118, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Approves the following Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs for 2019: ANNUAL WORK PROGRAM OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON EUROPEAN UNION'S QUESTIONS (2019) The National Assembly shall be chaired by: - the contribution of national parliaments to the good functioning of the Union, as established in art. 12 of the Treaty on European Union and their role in formulating European policies; - respect for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the European legislative process; - the importance of the European acts on the socio-economic development of the Republic of Bulgaria to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the implementation of the Europe 2020 Strategy, decide to exercise the powers under art. 105, para. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, subject to the procedure of parliamentary supervision and control under Chapter Eleven of Art. Art. 118 to art. 121 incl. by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following draft acts of the European institutions: Initiatives directly related to Brexit: 1. Proposal to adapt the references to the European Union's energy efficiency targets (expressed in absolute values) for 2030 to the European Union with 27 Member States (legal initiative). 2. Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down provisions for the continuation of the ongoing learning mobility activities under the Erasmus+ programme in the context of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union (a legislative initiative). New Commission initiatives: 1. Towards a sustainable Europe by 2030, follow-up to the UN Sustainable Development Goals, including with regard to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change (non-legal initiative). 2. Commission Recommendation establishing the format for the European e-health dossier (non-legal initiative). 3. A long-term reduction strategy for EU greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the Paris Agreement (non-legal initiative). 4. Fourth report on the state of the energy union (non-legal initiative). 5. To a new institutional framework for our energy and climate policy by 2025: opportunities for a more frequent vote by qualified majority and for a possible reform of the Euratom Treaty (non-legal initiative). 6. More effective law-making in the area of taxation: determining areas in respect of which to proceed to a qualified majority vote (non-legal initiative). 7. More effective law-making in the field of social policy: defining areas in respect of which to move more actively to a qualified majority vote (non-legal initiative). 8. Communication on strengthening the international role of the euro (non-legal initiative). 9. Further strengthening of the rule of law framework for 2014. (non-legal initiative). 10. Communication on visa reciprocity (non-legal initiative). 11. Communication on how to make the Union more united, stronger and more democratic in terms of communication (non-legal initiative). 12. Commission Work Programme 2020 Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Dear Members of Parliament, this was the report. You have the floor for the procedure, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please, on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the period between the first and second voting of the Bill supplementing the Law on the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds shall be five days.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u156	Thank you. We will vote on your procedural proposal. We are voting on the proposal for the period between first and second readings. They voted 93 MPs: 91, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I am making a procedural proposal to extend plenary time today until the debate is over, including the vote on item 6 of the National Assembly's Work Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u158	Thank you. Is there a reverse offer? I can't see. We are voting on the proposal to continue working time until a decision is adopted on the item under discussion on the agenda. Vote 99 MPs: 97 against 1 abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We will continue to work until a decision is adopted on the agenda item at issue. We have finished hearing the opinions and reports of the committees. We have a chance to discuss the reports. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly's annual work programme for European Union issues has been developed in accordance with the priorities set out in the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process adopted by decision of the Council of Ministers, the European Commission Work Programme for 2019 and proposals made by the Permanent Parliamentary Committees. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms is always expressing its support on topics related to the European Union and the Euro-Atlantic look of Bulgaria. We have always defended the national interests of the country and fought to defend the fundamental rights and values of the European Union. The annual programme presented by the Council of Ministers determines our country's effective and timely participation in the European Union decision-making process while protecting our national interest in all matters. The topics of enlargement of the European Union are affected by the understanding that the progress in the European integration of the Western Balkan countries corresponds to Bulgaria's interest in building a region of stability, security and prosperity. Honourable Members, the draft annual work programme of the National Assembly must also be guided by the agenda of the European Parliament and must always follow the fundamental principles of the European Union and guarantee citizens' rights. Recently we are witnessing a big gap in this, and what is more, we see the double standard or the different model in Brussels and Bulgaria. The examples are many, but one of the most recent is the rejection of the draft decision on the rise of neo-fascist events in Europe and Bulgaria, given that a resolution in the European Parliament was adopted on 25 October 2018 with a text corresponding to proposals in the Project. This resolution has been tabled as a common resolution by the EPP Group and other parties in the European Parliament. GERB is part of the EPP family. Another example showing the sharp gap between the adopted resolution and the vote in the National Assembly in Bulgaria are the rejected proposals for seclusion and agitation in other languages than the Bulgarian one, even with a translation into the Election Code, provided that resolutions were adopted on 7 February in the European Parliament................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In the work programme of the European Commission for 2019, the European Commission proposes actions and initiatives under the programme of suitability and effectiveness of the regulatory framework, one of these initiatives related to migration. Accordingly, it is also laid down in the National Assembly's Annual Work Programme, but at the same time Bulgaria refused to sign the UN Safe, Organized and Legal Migration Pact, provided there is a resolution tabled and voted on progress on the UN Global Pacts for Safe, Organized and Legal Migration and on refugees in the European Parliament on 11 April 2018, which even has MEPs from GERB. Colleagues, we see that whatever annual work programme in the National Assembly we adopt will often see great differences in the decisions of the government and the National Assembly and the proposals in the European Parliament. The bad news is that the double standard, which is in Brussels and Bulgaria, often refers to topics that violate the fundamental rights and values of the citizens of the European Union, which are fundamental to the movement for freedoms. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Mehmedova. Are there any lines to the statement? Here's a line for you, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Ms. Mehmedova, I congratulate you on the conclusions and analysis you have made to the Annual Work Programme on EU issues, but I would like you to complement your speech with several more topics. It is a very important topic that you noted about neo-fascist events and the refusal of the National Assembly to take a responsible decision. But I will recall a responsible decision that the National Assembly made last year on the so-called mobile package. Our leaders tabled a proposal and the National Assembly unanimously accepted it. The solution is all institutions, all government power to be used to protect the Bulgarian national interest or the interest of the Bulgarian carriers. But what are we watching a little later?! That this topic became about the personal or party use of a political party, part of the ruling majority. To party to make some red dots, we tend not to take into account the credit of unity, not to take into account that when there is one cohesion and we demonstrate responsible and state-owned behavior, we actually see that results are being given. Of course, this battle is not over, but the attempt to torpedo this unity and this struggle, this stately attitude is a political betrayal, in my opinion, and it torpedoes the efforts made by everyone. Once again, this was a proposal from the leaders of all parliamentary groups. And here I ask: how valuelessly different political entities try to build something that meets our common expectations of both business and Bulgarian citizens? The situation with the case is similar. Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u162	Time for a line is over, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u163	Again with regard to transport. We have an agreement there, which is based on the European Union, but with populism and demagogy, leaving the European Union, Bulgaria has an agreement with Britain since 1972. I am very interested to see how without agreement we will cover all these two million passengers with an agreement from 1972?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u164	Are there any other lines to Mrs. Mehmedova's statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. Would you like to take the opportunity for a douche? No. Thank you. Are there any other statements? Here you are, Mrs. Pavlova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, we accept the National Assembly's Annual Programme on European Union Affairs for the current year. Taking into account the strengthened role of national parliaments, after the Treaty of Lisbon, in forming and implementing the leading priorities of the European agenda, I believe that Bulgaria has played a key role in the implementation of the Programme of the European Agenda, especially when it comes to the Council of the European Union Programme with its participation in the Trio of the Presidency of Bulgaria, Estonia and Austria. Especially in the six months of our Presidency, we achieved very good results in implementing our programme with priorities, not only as part of the Trio, but also the priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency, which were aimed at implementing the pan-European policies, as part of the priorities concerning not only the Western Balkans, but also the Single Digital Market, social policy, energy policy, the Financial and Banking Union, security and migration policy and in all other areas with the combined efforts of everyone. Here it is very important to note that it was the Presidency and the will of each institution, both the parliamentary dimension and the participation of all ministries, of all experts at political and expert level that showed that there was a topic, a cause, a period of time when we were able to be united, to be united under the motto.. The Union makes the force. This national cause united us to be apolitical, to be overparty. This has given us the opportunity to achieve a great deal. Bulgaria has examined over 105 legislative files as part of the common European agenda, over 30 new legislative achievements as part of last year's Annual Programme. Some of them were successfully completed. Forty-six agreements have been able to conclude with the European Parliament, 39 agreements and common approaches with the European Parliament, 58 Council conclusions, six Council recommendations, 17 progress reports and five Presidency reports. This may sound like a pure statistic, but if we look back at the Presidency as numbers, our Presidency has indeed managed to achieve an unprecedented number of files with which negotiations have been reached. The negotiations were not easy because 2018 is the last full legislative year in which we can achieve and adopt important European legislation in the interests of European citizens before the end of the European Parliament's mandate, before the end of the European Commission's mandate. There were topics and there are still topics on the European agenda. They are also part of the Annual Programme on European Union issues, which I hope we will adopt today with you, which remain an important part of the debate, and topics on which we must work and defend national interest. These are: the topic of security and migration, the topic and the extremely important debate on Bulgaria's multiannual financial framework and the standing to obtain sufficient financial resources, to protect traditional policies such as cohesion policy, common agricultural policy, along with the provision of sufficient financial resources and new challenges: security, migration, digital transformation, cyber security, climate change and all that is part of the package of non-legitimate initiatives and changes, part of the Programme that we are discussing today. Both the topic of mobility and the topic of security and migration and the multiannual financial framework, but also the topic of social Europe, energy union, financial and banking union and single digital market remain part of the debate. These are topics on which work continues during the Romanian Presidency. We are actively involved, because it is very important to note that what was achieved during the Bulgarian Presidency was important and significant. It is very important to combine efforts with the experience gained, with the acquired good image, good reputation, with the well learned to place and stand up for the topics on the European agenda. It is now more important than ever to be able to continue with the efforts at every political level, and we hope, of course, that participation in the Councils of Ministers, in which the government participates, within the Parliamentary dimension in Parliament, through the non-legal and legislative initiatives that we are adopting together with you, to continue the subject of the Western Balkans, to continue the subject of the budget, to continue the other topics related to consumer protection, socio-economic cohesion and all these topics on which we can actively work and contribute, although at the end of the mandate of this European Parliament and the Commission, in the remaining months. Let us work actively with our partners from Romania and with the next two presidencies of Finland and Croatia. We have supported them in preparing for their presidencies, and now I hope to harvest the fruits of what we have managed to achieve together. Thank you for your attention and I hope that we will be able to work successfully as an active and not as a passive member of the European Union. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Pavlova. Are there any lines? I can't see. Are there any other statements? Mr. Karadayi, come in, you have a say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u167	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have heard the expert reports of the Standing Committees and it is our turn to do the political reading and, on our part, to make concrete proposals. In addition to being guided by the contribution of national parliaments to the good functioning of the Union, respect for the principles of subsidiarity, the importance of European acts, we propose to be guided by art. 1, para. 1 of the Bulgarian Constitution, namely: "Bulgaria is a republic with parliamentary government" at the adoption of the National Assembly Programme on European Union issues. It is impressive that some of the topics that are present in the European Commission's Work Programme are not at all topics for us as a country. And we propose that some of them be included in the National Assembly Work Programme. Firstly, we propose to include in the Annual Programme a priority for democratic change. The idea of the European Union to make it more democratic is clearly not close to the heart and mind of the current majority and governance. Obviously, the idea of active and free citizens being involved in the process of forming decisions on the European Commission does not appeal to you very much. We are witnessing the policy.Profession error; sample error; sample We therefore propose that this priority be included. You also obviously do not like the changes in the funding rules of the European political parties and especially the part that binds funding to the confession of the fundamental values of the European Union and human rights. Here again you are trying, honourable colleagues from GERB, to protect your coalition partners, not European values and human and civil rights. Secondly, the protection of democratic values, especially in the light of the European elections in 2019, is also not important to you, nor is it an increase in the democratic legitimacy of the institutions. We therefore propose to include a resolution of the European Parliament of 11 November 2015 on the reform of European Union selective law, supplemented by a resolution of the European Parliament of 7 February 2018 on the composition of the European Parliament. Thirdly, the discussion on prospects for the European Union. There's not much to say here. The silence of the Bulgarian government on this topic has been deafening for three years and the government has resigned to being a passive observer of dynamic processes, which are about to leave Bulgaria at the periphery of the European Union. But the National Assembly has no right to remain silent! In addition to having no right to remain silent, he must work for the prospects of the European Union with his acts and assign the Council of Ministers to do his job. The National Assembly has also demonstrated that it is in complete dissonance not only with the European Parliament but also with the representatives of these same political groups in the European Parliament. As a fourth proposal, we propose that a resolution of the European Parliament of 25 October 2018 on the rise of neo-fascist violence in Europe should be included in the Work Programme. The EPP are co-operating, in particular representatives of GERB. We propose a resolution of the European Parliament of 12 February 2019 on the need for an improved strategic framework of the European Union for national Roma inclusion strategies for the period after 2020 and the strengthening of the fight against anti-Roma moods to be included in the National Assembly's Work Programme, despite the proposed unacceptable and, according to some analysts, a Nazi concept, for changes in the policy of integration of the Gypsy ethnicity in the Republic of Bulgaria and the measures for their realization. Sixth, honourable President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we propose the Global Pact for Safe, Adjusted and Regular Legal Migration of the United Nations to also be part of the Working Programme of the National Assembly, as well as the Resolution of the European Parliament of 11 April 2018 on the progress of the UN Global Covenant on Safe Organization and Legal Migration and on Refugees, which was adopted, honourable Members of the National Assembly, on a proposal from the EPP, including MEPs from GERB. For the finale, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, especially colleagues from GERB, you too, as well as colleagues from BSP who are not there, most like to do exactly the opposite of the European political family in which you are a member. While the European People's Party at its Helsinki Congress on 7 and 8 November 2018 adopted an extraordinary Resolution on the Protection of European Values and Democracy, condemning populism and nationalism and urging its members to guarantee human rights, democratic values and minority rights, you are doing the opposite. Extend time, Mr. Chairman! On the contrary, in a coalition you are with nationalists and athok with other forces with nationalist inclination to take rights through systematic violation of European values. Your attitude towards these proposals, which we are making today, will show whether this hypocrisy and double standards will continue - some Europeans in Brussels, and with reverse actions in Bulgaria, at the expense of the European values and the retreat from democracy and statehood, and the isolation of Bulgaria from the processes that flow in the European Union, or we will be proud and worthy Europeans with a clear face, with a proper place of Bulgaria as an integrated and integral part of the European Union. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u168	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. In fact, do we have your suggestions in the form of a proposal... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u169	Dear Mr President, these are specific decisions of the European Union, the six decisions I have defined, they are everywhere, and I can also provide them to you. These are to include relevant resolutions, EU directives. Other proposals we have not made. We argued each one of them with one or two sentences.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u170	Okay, I get it. For the purposes of this sitting, I asked you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u171	The six directives and resolutions we propose to be included in the Programme. We can turn them on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u172	Thank you. Are there any lines? I don't see any line requests. Are there any other statements? Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, thank you for the opportunity to briefly express my views on the proposal for a National Assembly Decision on the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs in 2019. This is undoubtedly an act by which the National Assembly in the Republic of Bulgaria contributes to the issues of the European agenda and concerns parliamentary monitoring and control of European Union issues. By adopting this decision, we guarantee our country's coordinated and effective participation at all levels in the decision-making process of the European Union. GERB supports the proposal for a decision of the National Assembly for an annual programme on European Union issues and takes into account the main points laid down in both the Commission's Annual Programme and the government's adopted Work Programme containing the European Union's agenda. A few accents will shape my speech. First of all, the procedure. The procedure requires the Permanent Committees of the National Assembly to express their opinion on the Working Programme of the European Commission published in October 2018 and the Working Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted at the beginning of this year by the Government. The purpose of this procedure is the possibility of the National Assembly and the Members of the National Assembly to take a direct part, respecting the principle of subsidiarity because, through this procedure concerning acts of the European Union, whether legislative or non-legal, we should intervene directly, including the possibility that our Rules, the Constitution, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union should impose a parliamentary reserve on acts of the European Union. Therefore, under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, there are strict deadlines within which Parliament may rule. This is why the proposals of the Standing Committees, legislative and non-legal, which fall within the scope of both our Rules and the Constitution, are taken into account, following the principle of proportionality and subsidiarity. All proposals covered by the requirements of the Rules of Procedure and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union are taken into account. That's in terms of procedure. The substance of the proposed solution. Of course, GERB has always confessed European values and European ideas. This is what our party's ideology is built on, which is why we support the main priorities that are set out in the Annual Work Programme and are related to the important topics on the agenda of Europe. Among the top priority themes for Bulgaria are the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021 - 2027, a higher level of security and effective management of migration through strengthening the external borders of the European Union, preventing the terrorist threat and improving the architecture of information systems and their compatibility, building a stable and fair common European asylum system and providing solidarity mechanisms for burden-sharing in the event of increased refugee pressure, developing a common European migration policy, finding fair and balanced solutions on the main issues of the mobility package 1. As 2019 is the last year of the current European Commission's mandate, the European Commission Work Programme for 2019 clearly contains a limited number of legislative initiatives. As a result, the Draft Programme of the National Assembly includes predominantly draft acts of a non-legal nature. However, this enables us, as MPs representing the Bulgarian National Assembly, the legislative body, to participate in the formation of the long-term vision, which is an appropriate basis for conducting in-depth discussions on the future of Europe and on the important topics of the European agenda. I therefore call on all of us to support the proposed decision on the draft Annual Work Programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues for 2019. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. Are there any lines? Mr. Karadaye, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, precisely based on the position that GERB has always declared that they confess European values, it is the turn to prove it sometimes with action. And in this regard, because not all important topics for GERB have been able to point out, but one of our concrete proposals, Mrs. Vasileva, from our proposals concerns at least three points, which you set out in your speech on the important topics, namely migration, common European migration policy and so on. And we see no problem with the resolution of the European Parliament of 11 April 2018 on the progress of the UN Global Covenant on Safe, Organized and Legal Migration and on Refugees to be included in the Programme, and not only it, but all the other European documents that we have proposed to be included in the National Assembly's Programme, we have had precisely this in mind that GERB always declares that it confesses European values, sometimes it would be good to prove it by its actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u176	Thank you. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Mrs. Vassileva, if you're going to take the opportunity for a duvet, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr Karadayi, I am really glad that this debate is being held in the National Assembly. I believe that, from the National Assembly's platform, we should talk far more often on European topics, far more often we should discuss the direction of development of the European Union, the future of the European Union, including in the context of the events that have excited all of us in the last few days, Brexit, the upcoming European elections, many issues that are related to the security of citizens, to the challenges. It is really nice to have such debates, and I welcome the possibility of them being the subject of separate discussions, both of the hearings, both in the Standing Committees, and in the stands of the National Assembly. What I have outlined as priorities, I think is fully shared at national level as the main tasks ahead of us for this year. However, we must also adhere to the procedure and to the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, which requires us to strictly comply with the requirements of art. 118 of the Rules of Procedure. In this sense, yes, I agree, I welcome the conduct of such talks, debates, but as far as the specific content of the Decision is concerned, let us comply with the requirements of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the possibility that national parliaments will be pronounced within eight weeks after the legislative act of the European Union authorities is presented. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. Any other speeches? Here you are, in the manner of conduct. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u179	It's the way it's supposed to be. Dear Mr. Chairman, you should remind Mrs. Vasileva in the manner of conduct when quoting art. 118 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly that there is also art. 1 of the Constitution. This is exactly what we started with. However, once again, I would like to remind the entire Chamber that article. 1, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is: Art. 1. (1) Bulgaria is a republic with parliamentary management. While there is no other form of government, decisions are taken in the National Assembly and are implemented by the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u180	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. I listened carefully to the proposal, but I will not recall it now or in the future. I would not allow myself to interfere with the speeches of MPs, predetermining the content of what they will say, but thank you. Are there any other statements? There are no other speeches. Let's move on to the vote. First, we will vote on the name of the Decision on the occasion of a proposal which I draw from the statement of Mrs. Vasileva, the document that we will adopt, to name a decision on the adoption of the annual work programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues for 2019. We are voting separately as the Project does not explicitly state the name of the document. We are voting on the name "Decision on the adoption of the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs for 2019." They voted 106 MPs: 105 against 1, no abstentions. The proposed title is accepted. We are now voting on the draft proposals for a decision that we were familiar with in the report of the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u181	There have been further proposals... the six resolutions...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u182	I specifically asked, Mr. Karadaye, are we ready to proceed? Excuse me, I have no formal grounds to put to the vote other proposals, insofar as the reference to documents by the European Commission and the European Parliament cannot be put to the vote. We are voting on the draft decision. Voted 103 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 1. The proposed project has been adopted. Is there a reaction, Mr. Karadayi? Because otherwise we're done with the day program. [[People's representative Mustafa Karadaye requests a conductive procedure.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u183	Mr. President, I take the floor in the manner of conduct, as we think you should put to the vote the proposals made also here in the Chamber. Not for anything else, colleagues, but in this way you are making no sense of the debate here in the National Assembly. What is this debate about, then, in this House, when the various proposals will not be voted on? Colleagues of GERB, you violated the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly! From this point of view, Mr President, you, too, in the chair of the sitting, have violated the Rules of Procedure. You should first put our proposals to the vote. Otherwise it makes no sense to hold any debates in the National Assembly! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u184	The proposals in the National Assembly shall be given in writing.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u185	Mr. Karadayi, there was no way I could have put to the vote acts of other institutions that you referred to. A formal proposal in the Chamber didn't come my way. I'm sorry if I missed your vision, but I didn't have anything to put to the vote. I have marked six European Parliament resolutions. The fact that documents and facts are known cannot be put to the vote. Don't drag me into a debate from the plenary room. We'll sort it out, maybe from now on. I claim that I am not in violation of the Rules of Procedure. I submit that the House has adopted the relevant decision under the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the National Assembly, which we have concluded for today. Before we finish, I will make an announcement about parliamentary control tomorrow, March 15th: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will answer a question of the MPs Veselin Mareshki and Plamen Hristov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova will answer one question from the MP Krastina Taskova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer five questions from the MPs Dimitar Boychev, Plamen Manushev, Daniela Dimitrova, Desislava Atanasova, Boris Kirchev, Manuil Manev and Ivan Mihovski; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva will answer two questions from the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Maria Ilieva; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer three questions from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov, Polina Hristova and Daniela Dimitrova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov will answer two questions from the MPs Radostin Tanev and Krastina Taskova; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov will answer a question from the National Representative Ivan Valkov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned by seven days of their answers have requested: - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov to a question from the National Representative Boryana Georgieva; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on three issues from the MPs Kalin Vassilev, Boryana Georgieva and Radoslava Chekanska; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Spas Panchev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on two questions from the MPs Atanas Stoyanov and Daniela Dimitrova. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - two questions from the MP Veselin Mareshki to the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Culture Boel Banov will not participate. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourning today's meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-14.u186	The next session of parliament is tomorrow, March 15, 2019, Friday, at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
