ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Please, registration mode. [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, we continue with point one for today: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR RAIL TRANSPORT. With the Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Letifov will introduce us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u2	Thank you, Madam President. If you'll allow me, I'm doing a procedure for admission to the Chamber on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of Mr. Dimitar Genovski, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mr. Veselin Vassilev, Director of the Railway Administration Executive Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u3	Please vote on the procedure so made.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u4	Vote 148 MPs: 137 against 1, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Please allow guests to be invited to the hall. Go on, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u5	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Railway Transport Act No 902-01-3 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 January 2019. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 30 January 2019, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Rail Transport Act was discussed, No 902-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 January 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and Mr. Veselin Vassilev Executive Director of the Railway Administration Executive Agency. The bill was presented by Mr. Veliko Zanchev, who stated that the main objective of the bill is the transposition of the requirements of the applicable European Union legislation adopted by the Fourth Railway Package in 2016. The fourth railway package contains changes designed to complete and improve the functioning of the single European railway area, and includes five statutory acts, conditionally divided into the Technical Pillar and the Pazarre Pillar. Directive (EU) 2016/798 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on railway safety is introduced by the Law amending and supplementing the Railway Transport Act. One of the main changes to that Directive relates to the issue of a Single Safety Certificate for Railway Undertakings, instead of the current two-part system of Part A issued in the Member State in which the railway undertaking was first established and Part B issued in each Member State where the railway undertaking intends to operate. The single safety certificate for railway undertakings operating in one or more Member States of the European Union is intended to be issued by the European Union Railway Agency (AJTEC). For this purpose, AJTEU and the national safety authority of each Member State shall conclude a cooperation agreement. The single safety certificate of a railway undertaking which will operate in only one Member State of the European Union may be issued by the national safety authority of that State. The main functions of the national safety authority shall also be reviewed, including the oversight functions of the railway infrastructure manager and railway undertakings, of their obligation to continuously implement the safety management system, as well as the obligation of persons responsible for the maintenance of vehicles to continuously implement the maintenance management system. The requirements of Directive (EU) 2016/797 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on the interoperability of the rail system within the European Union relating to the authorisation for placing on the market of a railway vehicle and the authorisation for vehicle types and the procedure for drawing up an EC declaration of verification necessary for the placing on the market of vehicles and the placing into service of the structural subsystems which constitute the rail system of the European Union shall also be introduced. Next, the Market Pillar (Market Pillar) includes: - Directive (EU) 2016/2370 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 amending Directive - Regulation (EU) 2016/2338 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 amending Regulation (EC) No 1370/2007 on the opening of the market in domestic passenger transport services by rail. Mr. Zanchev stressed that the general objective of Directive (EU) 2016/2370 is to further strengthen the management of railway infrastructure, thereby increasing the competitiveness of rail transport in relation to other modes of transport and the future development of the Single European Railway Area. The draft Law lists texts granting railway carriers access rights under fair, non-discriminatory and transparent conditions to railway infrastructure and service facilities for carrying out all types of rail passenger and freight services. As regards the carriage of passengers, railway carriers will be entitled to carry passengers between railway stations located in Member States of the European Union, including between railway stations located in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. This right may be limited to the carriage of passengers between railway stations located in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, including by an alternative route, where such transport is already carried out on the basis of a public transport service contract and may lead to a disruption of the economic equilibrium of the contract concluded. The limitation of the right of access shall be carried out by decision of the Executive Director of the Railway Administration Executive Agency and the assessment of the economic equilibrium will be carried out under the terms and conditions of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1795 of 20 November 2018 establishing a procedure and criteria for carrying out an economic equilibrium assessment. The bill also provides for supplementing the plantation regime for infringements of legislation regarding unfair or discriminatory treatment of railway undertakings by an infrastructure manager, operator of a service facility or other railway undertaking, as well as not providing information preventing the performance of control and regulatory functions of the Railway Administration Executive Agency and as a regulatory authority and as a national railway safety authority. There are amendments to the administrative penal provisions of the Law concerning the implementation of Decision No 69 of the Council of Ministers of 5 February 2018 approving a Report of a meeting of the Interdepartmental Working Group on the Problems of the Judicial System and Corruption. By canceling art. 118a of the Rail Transport Act reduces the number of authorities with equal control powers competent to control identical public relations. Another part of the proposed changes reduces the range between the minimum and the maximum amount of fines. A penalty shall be introduced in case of repeated or systematic infringement of the Rail Transport Act or regulations. During the debates on the bill took part the MPs Halil Letifov, Stanislav Ivanov, Dimitar Danchev and Lalo Kirilov. The issue of liberalisation of the railway market in Bulgaria was discussed, as well as its impact on the Bulgarian railway sector after 2024 when the public service contract expires with the State. On the part of the representatives of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, it was clarified that the Directive enables carriers to carry passengers not only in an international communication but also in domestic transport on a railway network. Attention was also paid to the fact that in Bulgaria passenger transport is carried out only under the public service contract, which is concluded between the state and the winner of the competition. The question was also raised to the importers: what can happen after the conclusion of the contract for public passenger services? On the part of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, it was answered that after 2024 a new public service contract had to be concluded. The Rail Transport Act and Regulation (EU) 2016/2338 concerning the opening of the market for passenger services set out clauses in which each Member State may restrict that public service award. In particular, for Member States where the maximum annual volume of the market is less than 23 million train kilometres and which have only one competent authority at national level and one service contract covering the entire network, the competent authority may directly award a service contract. Following the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 12 votes for the Council of Ministers and 6 votes abstentions proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Railway Act, No 902-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 January 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u6	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Following is the Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Mr. Vigenin, you have the floor to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Rail Transport Act, No 902-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 January 2019. At its regular meeting on 6 February 2019, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Rail Transport Act, No 902-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 January 2019. The bill was presented by Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The meeting was also attended by Mr. Veselin Vassilev Executive Director of the Railway Administration Executive Agency at the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mrs. Maria Kaleva Head of Department at the Department of Legal Administration at the same Ministry. The main objective set by the Bill is to bring the Railway Transport Act into line with the requirements of European legislation, providing for a number of changes. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds, according to its field of activity, examined those of them which provide for the transposition of the requirements of the applicable European Union legislation adopted by the Fourth Rail Package in 2016. Importers point out that the fourth railway package contains important changes designed to build up and improve the functioning of the single European railway area. The package includes five legislative acts, divided into two pillars. It is expected that the draft and proposed legal mechanisms will achieve harmonisation and alignment with European, national legislation, by transposing part of Directive (EU) 2016/2370 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 amending Directive 2012/34/EU as regards the opening-up of the internal rail transport services market and the management of railway infrastructure. This should contribute to the extension of the scope of the Single European Railway Area so that it also applies to internal railway markets and reforming the management of infrastructure managers in order to ensure equal access to railway infrastructure. Part of Directive (EU) 2016/798, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on rail safety, is also envisaged. This should contribute to improved access to the railway market by establishing a common regulatory framework for rail safety, harmonisation of safety rules, the issuance of safety certificates for railway undertakings, the tasks and roles of national safety authorities. By adapting a part of Directive (EU) 2016/797 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on the interoperability of the rail system within the European Union, it will contribute to streamline the procedures for authorising the placing on the market or putting into service of structural subsystems of the rail system. The aim is to contribute to the completion of the single European railway area and to reducing the costs and duration of authorisation procedures. According to the assessment of the impact of the draft Law amending and supplementing the Railway Transport Act and issued an opinion by the Directorate of Administration Modernisation to the Council of Ministers, the existing provisions in the Railway Transport Act are contrary to the provisions in Directive 2016/798/EU on safety and Directive 2016/797/EU on interoperability and should not apply after the expiry of the transposition period. The differences in provisions which cannot be resolved under existing legislation by changing the organisation of work or introducing new technological capabilities may be identified as a major disadvantage of the national framework. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Kristian Vigenin, Chairman of KEVKEF, and Peter Petrov, Vice-President of KEVKEF. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposed by 5 votes for the National Assembly to adopt the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Railways Act, No 902-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 January 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Will there be an introduction from an importer? No. I'm opening the debate. Come in for a statement, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Technically speaking, with this bill, we transpose three Eurodirectives and two regulations into our legislation, at first glance, a series of directives that we need to apply in Bulgaria. The great challenge in this case is that with these changes we liberalise the internal railway passenger market in Bulgaria for external, in this case European railway carriers. In other words, we give complete freedom for the railway sabotage in Bulgaria. Here the question is how we guarantee and defend our national interest, how we defend our national carrier BDZ Travel. For information only, the foreign carriers will come here with new trains and new passenger cars, new motor trains, at the same time BDZ gave up the procedure for buying new trains as it was compromised, and is oriented towards renting, acquisition of depreciated, i.e. already used railway. It is clear to everyone in terms of competition who will be placed in better conditions. I do not even comment on the fact that these external, foreign carriers, whether European, will claim the most profitable sections, such as Plovdiv "Sofia," and the BDZ will again remain the most losing sections. The Ministry of Transport and the Railway Administration Executive Agency have tried to reassure us that there are provisions in the Bill that allow the State, understand the Railway Administration, introduce restrictions or even refuse access, because, on the one hand, trains in Bulgaria are around 20 million and the regulation allows, when they are up to 23 million and when there is one authority that issues a licence, to impose restrictions. Apart from the fact that BDZ has until 2024 a contract with the State to carry out this compulsory public service and until then we have nothing to worry about. However, 2024 is in a few years, and on the other hand, that we have one right does not mean that we will apply it. A clear example of this is Sofia Airport. We have the right to operate it as our state-owned company, a state-owned airport that is profitable, will continue to be profitable and will increase passengers and revenues in the coming years. We don't have an obligation to give it on concession, but we do. This is also the big problem with passenger transport in Bulgaria. When the time comes when 2024 is over, there is no guarantee that the state will really restrict or deny these carriers access to our territory. Because then they can claim that competition is limited. In addition, BDZ Holding's claim that BDZ Holding would not have been able to pay any compensation to BDZ Holding. Another thing that should show how the big ones in the European Union defend their interests, although they violate fundamental principles, the postulates of the European community, and it is the free movement of people, capital and goods. Europe wants us to accept the liberalisation of passenger transport in Bulgaria. At the same time, however, he wants us to accept the package, which means the plan, which limits our international cars and car carriers on their territory. Simply put: You open your market for our railway carriers, but at the same time we close our market for your trucks, trucks and drivers. If we have to implement the plan here on our territory for rail transport, then after every three weeks of operation of foreign trains we have to make them go home for a week in Germany or France. Or should we apply to drivers who are foreign nationals, whether from the European Union, the same rights that we are given to Bulgarian international drivers. If we have to implement the plan for Bulgaria for the rail transports, we must not allow free Cabotage on our territory. In conclusion, with these changes, with this bill we do not defend our national Bulgarian interest. We believe that between first and second readings, we need very serious work in order to introduce relevant changes. We are prepared to make such changes, and we hope that we will discuss them first in the Commission, then in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u10	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Letifov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we will support the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Rail Transport Act for several reasons. As my colleague before me mentioned, we are introducing three directives and two regulations. If we have had doubts or concerns about these documents here, we should have reacted somewhere by 2016 as a state and institutions and participated in the construction of these documents in order to reflect our concerns. But it's not done, right now they're the law, we have to accept them. Another question is what are the mechanisms and another is the question of the place and role of the state and the institutions to protect the national carrier and the national interest. In the case of what is the national interest of the state and what is the interest of the national carrier, the passenger, railway, are quite different things. Why? Even those lines that have been mentioned are speedy, transnational, as they are conducted, even they are losers. The subsidy amounts to hundreds of millions per year for BDZ Passenger Services. Here the question is: when a foreign carrier comes to open the market, which is not prohibited, he has the opportunity now. As we can see, international trains are passing through Bulgaria. More or less, they are also carrying out sabotage transport on the territory of our country. The difference is substantial because we do not pay them a subsidy for the carriage of passengers, but we pay the national carrier, which, to recall, has won a public contract under the Public Service Act and it has such a contract until 2024. Given that all railways for the transport of passengers are losers, the State, on the basis of this contract, finances to finance BDZ road services. This will happen to another operator only if he wins such an order and performs such a service. Here we must give guarantees and give a firm answer as stated in the Non-discriminatory Conditions Regulation. I do not assume that the state will allow an external carrier to come only to carry out its convenient lines and schemes, and the rest will remain to subsidise the state more losing lines. We are only talking here about the role of the state and its adequate attitude to this issue. Otherwise, I believe that in this regulation and in the proposed bill mechanisms and instruments to protect national interest by what is written for non-discriminatory conditions is possible. On the other hand, on market liberalisation, where is the difference between the Mobile Package or the plan? Our carriers have taken over Central and Western Europe because they have developed, they are competitive. In fact, they beat the other carriers on a market basis, not with legislative changes or regulations, but here we can't do this with travel services. The more significant issue, as the debate is going in this direction, is that we have received some assurance from the new BDZ leadership that there will be an option to solve all the repair problems, all the staff problems, all the problems with the transport scheme and all the problems with the non-completion of the rolling stock and staff and experts in BDZ. That's the bigger problem. Otherwise, the idea of the Bill and the topic we are talking about here, and the question to which we owe an answer, in fact, is: will we be able to improve the service, in fact, directly concerning Bulgarian citizens, so that it becomes attractive, or will we fail? That is the question, and I sincerely hope that the debate goes in this direction. Otherwise, doubts about the role of the State and how they will be able to protect the national interest and develop BDZ is a very important question and we owe that answer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u12	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. First line, Mr. Ivanov. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u13	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Letifov, I agree with your speech, in the form of a reply I will simply complete it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u14	If it's a line, there'll probably have to be a nuance of dissent.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u15	Yes, I disagree that you did not mention the essentials of this bill, which concerns Regulation 2338, so I will fill you in. Under this regulation, the Bulgarian government is granted the right to directly entrust the public service to a company which the government considers. This company is currently BDZ and will continue to be because under this regulation, when it is under 23 million. km, we have the right to direct such services. About 20 million are spent in Bulgaria. km, we find ourselves in the hypothesis of the Direct Award Regulation and thus ensure that the service is carried out by the Bulgarian State Railways. The other thing you mentioned I agree that if companies compete on a market principle, they will not participate because, if they do not receive a subsidy, these lines are really losers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u16	Thank you. Are there any other lines? I won't. Would you like a douche? Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Ivanov! I agree with the remark you made, but to return to the subject and to the debate on BDZ that, as we speak, everything is fine, in fact, there are huge problems. We need to have a debate on the substance of the matter to find out where the weaknesses are, where the state and the institutions there are absent and how we can solve this issue. We all owe this answer, especially the government, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u18	Thank you. A statement has been made by Mr. Valkov. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! The draft amending and supplementing the Rail Transport Act mainly includes the transposition of several European directives relating to the fourth railway package. The technical pillar is in Directives 2016/798, 2016/797 relating to the interoperability of the rail system and traffic safety. I won't dwell on them. I will refer mainly to the market pillar or to Directive 2016/2370 relating to the modification of the opening-up of the market for inland rail services, as well as to Regulation 2338 relating to the same services. As the biggest debate was heated in the Commission and there it became clear why and in what way our market can be protected, I believe that the MPs should be best informed so that they can make the right decision. What is the current state of affairs? And at the moment, our market is liberalized. I want you to listen to me properly! It is liberalized, and not now, but in 2009. As of now, the companies passing through our country and holding a certificate A, i.e. the international certificate, can drive between the stations through which they pass, for example the line Sofia "Svilengrad." The amendments proposed in this amending and supplementing bill simply increase their powers, that is, liberalization is expanding. Until 2024, as my colleagues before me said, no other carrier can come, as there is a contract with Bulgarian State Railways in 2009 under all legal conditions. Fifteen years this carrier is Bulgarian State Railways, i.e. until 2024 our market is completely protected. What can happen after 2024? Either a new order should be played or the state has the right, as colleagues have said, to award this service. In order not to speculate, precisely in Regulation 2338, p. 28, Article 4a is written that national law does not prohibit this, and the competent authority may decide to direct the public service contract for passenger transport of rail transport: in point (a) and (b), where it considers that the direct award is justified by the relevant structural and geographical characteristics of the market and network concerned, and in particular the size, characteristics of the demand, complexity of the network, technical and geographical isolation of the services and so on. For clarification: Member States in which on 24 December 2017 the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] amending Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty and collecting definitively the provisional anti-dumping duty imposed on imports of certain footwear with uppers of leather originating in the People's Republic of China ("the list'). The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Train/km, and as it became clear, in Bulgaria we have about 20 million. Train/km, and where there is only one competent authority at national level, it is the Ministry of Transport and a public service contract covering the entire network, it is considered to fulfil the conditions set out in point (a). In other words, the state can fully protect both the market and our carrier. I think everything else is speculation. As Mr. Letifov said, no other carrier can come and receive deposits from the state or be subsidised. This is currently and up to 2024 Bulgarian State Railways, and then the State has the right to assign the service. So I think our market is well-protected enough and our group and most MPs will support the Bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u20	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. We are going to vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Rail Transport Act, No 902-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 January 2019. They voted 125 MPs: 93, none, abstention 32. The motion is accepted. We continue with the next item on the agenda: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE CRITICAL CODEX. Importers are Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs on 24 October 2018. Who will present the Legal Commission report? Her chairman, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u21	Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Council of Members of the European Union adopted a decision to amend and supplement the Criminal Code, No 854-01-76, submitted by Tsveta Valcheva Karayancheva and a group of MPs on 24 October 2018, which was adopted in the first vote on 15 November 2018. Law on amendment and supplement of the Penal Code (prom., SG No. ...) The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u23	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u24	The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article ..31. The offence was committed in the context of domestic violence, if preceded by the systematic exercise of physical, sexual or mental violence, economic dependence, forced limitation of personal life, personal liberty and personal rights and committed to ascending, descending, husband or ex-husband, a person from whom he has a child, a person with whom he is or has been in actual marital cohabitation or a person with whom he or she has lived or lived in a household.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u25	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 1. Vote 117 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u26	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u27	Statements? Here's your speech, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u28	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I take the floor of speech because in the Commission's proposal to create a new § 1 I expected there to be a debate - this is a key concept in the current Criminal Code. This concept, as all colleagues see, refers to the crimes that we have referred to in § 1, § 2, § 3, § 4, § 5, that is, starting from the composition of the murder, bodily injury in art. 127, coercion. The suicidal tendencies are over. I would like to make it clear to my colleagues that in the Project, which was discussed for first reading, we had made a proposal for two new compositions: one for the composition of mental violence and the second for the persecution. After a serious and thorough debate in the working group, which met twice, we discussed the location of a new composition in terms of mental violence. For this reason, we have decided, as a legislative tactic and as a legal decision, that mental violence should enter into the definition of the qualifying composition in terms of domestic violence. In this way, we have also solved the other problem that we have long discussed, what is the concept of the needs of the Penal Code for Domestic Violence, or is this the definition in the Law on Protection from Domestic Violence, or will we create a new definition that is for the needs of criminal law? You can see that in § 1, we just voted, especially for the needs of the Penal Code, a definition of a crime committed under domestic violence. An essential component in this definition, along with physical and sexual violence, is also mental violence. This is what I wanted to explain in view of the fact that this was the result of the work of the working group confirmed by the Commission's vote at second reading. This concept will refer to the offences referred to in Articles 116, 127, 131, 142 and 142a of the Penal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Are there lines? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2, supported by the Commission. They voted 109 MPs: 101, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u30	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 2 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u31	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 2. They voted 105 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u32	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u33	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 3 supported by the Commission. Vote 108 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u34	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u35	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 4, which the Commission supports. They voted 106 MPs: 104, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u36	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 142a The following amendments 1. A new para is being created. 4. If the act under para. 1 was committed under domestic violence, the penalty was imprisonment for three to ten years. 2. Previously on AMC's... 4, 5 and 6 become respectively. 5, 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u37	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I shall put to the vote the version of § 5 of the Commission Report. Voted 103 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u38	Before I report § 6, I would like to stress on the previous paragraph that my colleague Naydenov from "Volja" who is a colleague with experience in criminal law, in both discussions he commented on the severity of the punishment which we have just voted on - a punishment of three to ten years - for imprisonment under domestic violence. I mean, he paid attention to the punishment. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 143 the following amendments and additions are 1. A new para is being created. 3: If the act under para. 1 was committed under domestic violence, the penalty was imprisonment for three to ten years. 2. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u39	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 6 of the Commission Report. They voted 116 MPs: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u40	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 144, para. 3 after the words points 6 and 8 shall be commaed and added, or committed under domestic violence.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u41	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 7 of the Commission Report. They voted 124 MPs: 122, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u42	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In Chapter 2, Section V of the Special Part is created art. 144a: Art. 144a. (1) Whoever systematically follows another and this could arouse a legitimate fear for his life or health, or for the life or health of his neighbors, if the crime committed does not constitute a more serious crime, shall be punished by imprisonment for up to one year or probation. (2) Tracking under para. 1 is any behaviour of a threatening nature against a specific person who may be expressed in the pursuit of the other person, showing the other person that he has been observed, entering unwanted communication with him through all possible means of communication. (3) If the act was committed under domestic violence, the penalty shall be imprisonment for up to five years.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u43	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 8 of the Commission Report. Vote 115 MPs: for 114, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u44	According to § 9 of the importer there is a proposal from the National Representative Todor Bajchev and a group of MPs received under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 161 the following 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: For minor bodily injury under art. 130 and 131, para. 1, points 3 "5" for mild and moderate bodily injury under art. 132, for crimes under art. 144, para. Art. 1, art. 145, 146 " 148a," as well as for bodily harm under art. 132, 133 and 134, caused by ascending, descending, husband, brother or sister, prosecution is aroused by the distress of the victim. 2. In para. 2 words for crimes under art. Art. 133, Art. 135, para. Art. 1, 3 and 4 139 " 141" shall be replaced by "For bodily harm under art. 129 caused to ascending, descending, husband, brother or sister, and for crimes under art. Art. 133, Art. 135, para. Art. 1, 3 and 4 Art. 139, Art. 141, Art. 144a, para. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's and 1's.'
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u45	Statements? Mr. Kirilov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u46	Madam President, I take the floor to make the following clarification. In this bill, which is entirely your legislative initiative, the initiative of our parliamentary group, we have given the task of reflecting legislative initiatives of the opposition in previous cases that have been adopted at first reading. Therefore, you see in § 9 that a proposal has been submitted under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of Todor Baychev, which is related to the nature of the prosecution of the crime under art. 129. This legislative proposal of the opposition we discussed together with our proposals regarding the overall distribution of the nature and severity of the acts. You see, we've covered him in this case. I'm also using the case to refer to yesterday's dispute. I can say that the Legal Commission has not only respected this opposition proposal. I refer to amendments to the Civil Procedure Code, amendments to the Administrative Procedure Code, two or three proposals for amendments to the Criminal Code, which were partial, but were related to the topic of domestic violence, which I think should bring together all our legislative efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Replies to Mr. Kirilov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 9 of the Commission Report. Vote 124 MPs: for 123, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u48	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u49	Statements? Mr. Baychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, as Mr. Kirilov pointed out correctly, the bill belongs to Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva. Our proposals, as is the case here, are also accepted with § 10 our proposal on another bill. Although with different motives, the goal is the same, namely to punish people who commit a crime against marriage, those who force someone to marry by using force, intimidation, abuse of power and so on. The low penalty has so far created a sense of impunity against these people. In this regard, our proposal, and your proposal, Mrs. Karayancheva, was to set a lower limit to deter the court, prosecutor and lawyer of the offender. In this case, we believe that the general, individual prevention, will be able to act in full force and volume with regard to offenders and to act deterringly with regard to future such offenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 10, which the Commission supports. Vote 117 MPs: 116, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u52	The Commission proposes to create a new § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 182, para. 2 words or fine from one hundred to three hundred levs shall be replaced by a fine from two thousand to five thousand levs and the words shall be replaced by a fine from five thousand to ten thousand levs.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u53	Statements? Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u54	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, as I do not see any other speeches, and the text is the result of a discussion of the legislative initiative with representatives of civil society, which has led to the issue of settling the relationship with relapses in relation to the so-called parental alienation syndrome. That is, these are the cases where the parent who has been assigned parental rights, removes and does not carry out the personal relationship with the child, as a result of which the child is alienated from one of his parents, in a large part of the cases even forms prejudice against the other parent, harms the child's mental health. For this reason, we discussed thoroughly at both meetings of the working group the proposals that civil society organizations have received. They suggested creating a special composition in connection with overcoming parental alienation syndrome. As a result of debates and as a result of an analysis of the criminal law doctrine, we came to the conviction, and the NGOs agreed to provide for a change in the punishment of the composition of art. 182, ) (a.k.a. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u55	Colleagues, please be quiet! Excuse me, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u56	To predict a change in the punishment of art. 182, para. 2 which is a composition of a failure to comply with a judgment for the granting of parental rights. The analysis showed that if a fine was increased, it would have a stronger effect on the parent who did not comply with the judgment. The Commission has therefore approved and proposed this change. Including in this regard, we have requested and received, for which I thank the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, a reference to the signals, the investigations initiated, the cases in which a crime has been prosecuted for failure to comply with a judicial decision on parental rights. Based on this analysis and this information from the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, we have assessed and propose to change the nature of the persecution of this crime and to return to the situation as it was until 2010. It is haunted by the sadness of the victim. That is, the parent who has suffered from the failure to comply with the judgment is assumed to have the energy, will have the insistence to maintain this charge in criminal proceedings. This would also favour the proper distribution of the burden of proving between the state prosecution and, as I have already conditionally used the expression, the use of the private prosecutor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 11, supported by the Commission. They voted 122 MPs: 119, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u58	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u59	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 12, supported by the Commission. Vote 113 MPs: for 112, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u60	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u61	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 13, respectively, supported by the Commission. Vote 113 MPs: 111, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u62	The Commission proposes to create a new § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... A new article shall be created. 193a: Art. 193a. For a crime under art. 182, para. 2 Punishment is aroused by the sadness of the victim.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u63	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 14, supported by the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u64	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u65	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 15, supported by the Commission. Vote 113 MPs: for 112, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u66	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u67	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the importer for the name of the division of the Law, supported by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 111, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u68	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 14, which becomes § 16: ......... 16........................................... (1) Unfinished until the entry into force of this law proceedings under art. Art. 177, Art. 190 are finished in the current order. (2) Unfinished before the entry into force of this law legal proceedings under art. 182, para. 2 are finished in the current order.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u69	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the version of § 14, which becomes § 16. They voted 119 MPs: for 119, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u70	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u71	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 17, supported by the Commission. They voted 112 MPs: 112, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u72	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u73	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u74	Vote 118 MPs: 116 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Next is Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva's statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u75	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to thank everyone for the unanimity that we have achieved today for the adoption of these changes in the Criminal Code... extremely important changes, an extremely important message to all those women and children who have been abused at home! This is a blow to domestic violence, and I am pleased that thanks to the work of the Legal Commission, thanks to everyone who participated in the working group, all colleagues from all parliamentary groups have been able to achieve this result. Believe me, this is a step in the right direction and I am convinced that once we have achieved such unanimity on such an important law, we have the opportunity to work again in the name of the Bulgarian citizens in unity, to exchange opinions, to hear the opinions of civil society organizations and to make good legislation. Thanks again for what we did today! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. Dear MPs, a 30-minute break is followed, and then we will continue with discussions on questions by the MPs Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev, Ivan Ibrishimov, Anelia Klisarova, Valentina Naydenova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Health on the organization of transplant treatment in Bulgaria. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u77	Colleagues, please take your seats. We continue with the next item of the program: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. We are moving on to a debate on the questions from the MPs Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Gokov, Ilian Timchev, Ivan Ibrishimov, Anelia Klisarova and Valentina Naydenova to the Minister of Health. I would like to remind you that on 1 February of the asking by the MPs was answered by Minister Ananiev. At the same meeting 64 MPs from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and from the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have tabled proposals for debates on the questioning, together with the Draft Decision. The debates are scheduled by the President of the National Assembly for today's meeting. The proposal for the debate on the inquiry and the draft decision were sent to the Members of the National Assembly in electronic form on 1 February 2019. A draft decision to be voted on has been adopted. The requirements of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution and Article 2 of the Constitution. 105 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We have a draft decision. The proposal is submitted in a timely manner until the plenary session is closed. I would like to remind you that the time distribution is in accordance with art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. I think we can get started. I give the floor to the importers to present the proposal for a debate and the draft decision. Professor Mikhailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Today at parliamentary control we present for discussion one of the most strategic topics concerning Bulgarian healthcare. I hope that the discussion will be fruitful, consensual, as it is a matter of national interest, and that you will support the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, a decision which would largely resolve the beginning of the resolution of this very serious issue. Since the chairman has already mentioned the regulation, I will try to be very specific and then open up the possibility of debates. The transplant of organs and tissues is no longer experimental technology, but a routine method for solving a number of life-threatening problems in modern clinical medicine. In the 21st century, to whose first quarter we are already confidently walking, has become a basic criterion for the health level of a country. It has also become a condition that gives a significant impetus to the development of health care in all its directions. Transplantology has launched a new kind of biological therapy as a weapon for mankind to solve its evolutionary problems and has become at all a leading part of the 21st century biological revolution. As part of the European Union and the global world, Bulgaria should have long ago made serious efforts to develop its transplantology. This direction has a huge political and social impact on the national consciousness of the Bulgarian nation and its confidence in the efforts made by the state to ensure its health and comparable with the other countries of the global world life expectancy. Here I will allow myself, Mr Minister, to quote the words of one of your fellow Members, the Minister of Health of Slovakia, who said in a recent meeting that he could not accept the possibility of survival more than 20% lower in his country than other countries in the European Union. Unfortunately, we have already reached in certain areas of the country the sad fact that the mortality rate and the standardized mortality rate are twice as high as the average for the European Union. The history of transplantology in Bulgaria has solid roots. The first transplant I will say about all who are not familiar with this problem of kidneys, which worldwide represent two thirds of the transplanted organs in the world, was carried out in the distant 1968. The first heart transplant For all who participated in these first steps of Bulgarian transplantology, the hope was great and the expectations were also. Unfortunately, so many decades later, let us see what the result is, and it is written on the website of the Executive Agency for Transplantation, which, unfortunately, this year is being closed and became the Directorate of the Mega Agency for Medical Supervision. Here are the data: as of January 2, 2019, waiting for kidney transplants are 1039 people; for liver Here I will open the clamp and say that Bulgaria is from the few seven countries in the European Union, which does not perform a lung transplant at all. Here are the specific sad numbers for the transplants performed in 2018 in fully prepared and highly-emerald transplant teams: total kidney transplants Thus, dear Minister, the requirements of the nation, theoretically speaking, will be satisfied in the order between the following 10 and 40 years, and if no new waiters appear. This is absurd! Even greater is the absurdity, looking at the requirements as a number of organ transplants per year for the global world, and the number of donors - 10 per million people. Here I have the answers of the national consultants in their respective directions. The figures in Bulgaria do not meet these criteria at all. With regard to donors, we are in an extremely serious situation, even below 4 per million people. And in order not to be naked in comparisons, I'm giving you the data of the International Transhipment Register. Last time I told you that in the European Union this process is monitored very seriously: for the Republic of Croatia for 2017, the kidney transplants are 154, the liver transplants are 116, the heart transplants are 33, and it is, Minister, in the case of a human contingent, which is 50% lower than that of the Republic of Bulgaria. For the past 9 years Bulgaria has provided a Eurotransplant: seven donors of the lung, two donors of the kidney, nine donors of the liver and four donors of the heart, i.e. on average two donors per year. It is for this reason that Bulgaria is not a member of the Eurotransplant and cannot participate fully in the legal exchange of organs, which is, however, only one of the reasons for the crying condition of transplantology in Bulgaria. The number of transplants in the area of cell transplantation is relatively higher. In the Republic of Bulgaria are performed annually over 100 transplants, but there also because of the lack of any investment policy and long-term vision by the Ministry, the technology resource has not been updated for more than 10 years. Three years ago, I shared this with you, Mr. Minister, a detailed programme for the modern restructuring of the technology resources of cell transplants was provided to the then principal of the Ministry of Health, but we still have no answer. To turn to the reasons that led to this sad condition of transplantology in Bulgaria are many. First of all, for years the lack of serious and concrete efforts to improve the organization of donation and transplantation activity. Inexplicably low costs for the reimbursement of the funds for the activities and work of the transplant operation "Regulation No 29, and in particular Annex Nos 1, 2 and 3. The difference, Minister, is not with the countries that are in the first place in Europe, and the average European data on the recovery of labor and activities at times are not in favor of Bulgaria, and it should be known that the technology, technology and supplies used in this type of treatment are of the same origin. Next, there are a number of peculiarities in the valuable formation of research that have been reported to me by consultants in the different directions that accompany the post-transplantational observation of a patient. In the Republic of Turkey, for example, they are at times lower as a price, and in Bulgaria, regardless of the increasing number of research in this direction, they do not reduce prices, which would be normal, but who knows why they are rising. I've already told you that two thirds of the world's organ transplants are performed in patients who need a kidney transplant. I should definitely point out to you that the cost of a patient who has been transplanted after the first year of transplantation is three and a half times lower than of a patient who is maintained on dialysis treatment. Since you spoke last time about the Norwegian mechanism, in the Kingdom of Norway this difference is seven-to-one in favour of the transplanted patient, regardless of the fact that there is one other effect that is extremely important "this is the socialization of the patient who has been transplanted, unlike the dialysis patient who has been put to therapy several times a week, which does not really give him any opportunity to perform his social functions. In addition, the avalanche increase in the number of dialysis centers will not comment here whether they are state or private, and on this background the zero efforts to increase transplant activity. When we turn to finance, Mr. Minister, there are a lot of questions going on, and the answers to me are quite awkward. Drug policy in the field of transplantology is also extremely weak. Transplanted patients need serious treatment in relation to severe post-transplant complications. The lack of a modern range of immunosuppressive agents, anti-infectious agents will not list them all, the lack of adequate reimbursement policy, the burden of transplant centers, the medical institutions involved in this activity and forcing them to reduce their activity. The organizational state of the problems of possible donors with heart death has not been addressed, which is the main reason for the success of the donor programme in Spain and Croatia, which are leaders in the European Union. For years there has been no coordinated policy of promotion of donation, whether of organs, cells or of blood products. I don't want to open up to you, Mr. Minister, I've told your predecessors many times, what is the usability of the equipment and its coefficient, for example, when collecting cellular material. There is no country in the world where transplant centers deal with cell collection. This is a centralized procedure that takes place in the transfusion haematological centers. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Finally, because the debate is political one minute and I am finished, Mr President, let's see what the political effect is. Bulgarian citizens have no confidence in Bulgarian healthcare regarding this type of life-saving interventions. In the last week alone, several calls for donations of funds and assistance for Bulgarian citizens to get out of the country's territory and treatment there appeared in the media. If you turn around, and you have already shared it once, to the figures that the NHIF has as an obligation to pay for transplant treatment, to the cases that are being conducted against it and the Ministry of Health on similar occasions, and compare, Mr. Minister, these figures with the real funding of Bulgarian transplantology, then the conclusions will be very sad. Finally, I will say just a few words within 30 seconds about the Project for the National Programme on Donation and Transplants 2019 - 2023, which was sent to me. I don't want to qualify him. It consists of eight pages, the next eight are a repetition of the first eight, being placed in tabular form. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that such a programme should be accompanied by a very serious disease analysis and internal mortality characteristics in the individual centres that have concluded a contract with the donor transplant agency, with the relevant infrastructure in Bulgaria, which can suggest the creation of donor situations in this infrastructure. All of this is missing, there are so many things missing in this project. I ask you to coordinate it very seriously with the leading specialists in Bulgaria as there is, and not so much so that this project can become a real programme. I hope this debate will really boost the development of transplantology in Bulgaria and I suggest you very kindly and kindly support our draft solution. Should I read it, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u79	Yes, please introduce him.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u80	The Minister of Health is hereby authorised to submit to the National Assembly by 1 April 2019: - analysis of the transplant activity in Bulgaria - current state, problems and perspectives; - Action plan with specified tasks, expected results, deadlines and responsible departments to become a full member of the Eurotransplant; - necessary changes to the Law on Organ, Tissue and Cell Transplanting and Ordinance No 29 of 2007 on the relative share of labour pay for transplantation activities financed by the Ministry of Health, updated standard for organ, tissue and cell transplantation; - National program for promotion of donation of organs, cells and blood products, made on the basis of interinstitutional cooperation. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u81	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. I'll give you my word, Minister. I will read the allocation of time in relation to the application of art. 105, para. 2 of the substations: parliamentary group of GERB You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u82	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In 2018, the national health policy was related to overcoming the following important challenges in the field of transplantation: to encourage donation; to provide the necessary conditions for conducting lung transplantation in Bulgaria; to sign a new contract of qualification and training for carrying out lung transplantation; to develop a national transplant programme with a plan for its implementation. We have committed to implementing strategic measures for the development of a modern transplant programme in Bulgaria, which should be supported by the public so that we can provide a modern transplant for Bulgarian patients. Strategic data. Data in 2018 are eloquent in terms of donation. In 2018, the total number of transplanted patients in Bulgaria was 42 people, of which were: 25 kidney transplants, 4 cardiac and 13 liver transplants, what you said, and you. In 2018, 16 kidney transplants were carried out at the University Hospital of Aleksandrovska; 9 kidney and 7 liver transplants were performed at the University Hospital of St. Ekaterina. 6 liver transplants were performed at the University Hospital of Lozenets. The main difficulties in organ transplantation are due to their shortage both in Bulgaria and worldwide. During the period 2010 - 2018 in Bulgaria, the number of withdrawals from the donors' relatives was up to 20% per year from the total number of realized and unrealized donors. One of the main reasons for the insufficient number of organs is the lack of complete information in the relatives of brain-dead patients who may grant their consent to donation. According to data from the Executive Agency for Transplantation on 2 January 2019, the number of kidney transplants in Bulgaria was 1039 patients, the liver 47, the heart was 447 and the lung was 15, at the same time the number of transplants in the country remained low. The Republic of Bulgaria shall implement a bilateral agreement signed between the Executive Agency for Transplant and Bulgaria on the basis of which organ exchange takes place. For the period from 28 November 2018 to 28 December 2018, Bulgaria proposed five organs of a Eurotransplant from which one was sent and transplanted to the Vienna Hospital on 1 December 2018. By virtue of the same agreement, in December 2018, the Republic of Bulgaria was granted two kidneys and liver transplanted successfully in the city of Tübingen, Germany, on 29 December 2018. The Agreement is important in view of the opportunities it provides to deepen cooperation with countries of the Eurotransplant. A brief report of the measures implemented and the actions taken in 2018 - 2019 For the purposes of encouraging donation on 31 October 2018, I held a meeting with His Holiness the Bulgarian Patriarch Neofit to discuss the need to promote and support organ donation in the event of brain death. During the meeting, I presented the facts that require timely action and empathy, expressed my hope that, with joint efforts, with faith and with love for man, we will find the right solution so that people in need of transplantation can get a chance at life. The Bulgarian Orthodox Church came up with a decision in support of the noble act to donate life. We also received support from the other representatives of the officially recognized religions in our country. The Ministry of Health is preparing a national media campaign to support the donation that will start this month. Our main goal will be to draw the attention of Bulgarian citizens to organ donation and transplants that save lives. For the purpose of deepening bilateral cooperation on donation and transplantation issues, in January 2019 the Ministry of Health held meetings with specialists from Croatia and Austria: Dr. Sinisa Varga, Vice-President of the Committee on Health and Social Affairs of the National Parliament of Croatia, and Dr. Mirela Busic, National Transplant Coordinator of Croatia, the meeting was on 17 January 2019 and Dr. Walter Klepetko, Professor of Thorough Surgery, on 25 January 2019. The main objectives of the visits were to discuss the necessary measures for the development of lung transplantation in the Bulgarian country and study the possibility of launching in 2019 the training of Bulgarian medical specialists and coordinators in the field of lung transplantation. As a result of the negotiations, an Agreement on qualification and training between Bulgaria and Vienna on the Eurotransplant line was discussed. Within the next three years, actions will be taken to build organizational structures in Bulgaria to provide lung transplant activities and Bulgarian medical professionals will undergo training in the Department of Thorough Surgery at the Vienna Multiprofile Hospital for the acquisition of basic knowledge of lung transplantation and the absorption of all practical skills needed for lung transplantation. Our main goal is in 2021, I would even say at the beginning of 2021, that the first lung transplant can be performed in Bulgaria. In this regard, we appointed a Bulgarian team that will undergo training during the Academy of Transplantation in Vienna in May 2019 and two six-month trainings at the Viennese Breast Surgery Clinic. For the training in May 2019 at the Academy of Lung Transplantation, we stated a team of two pulmologists, one surgeon and one anesthesiologist. For six months of training we plan to send to Vienna two groups of Bulgarian specialists, which include one surgeon, one anesthesiologist and one pulmologist. During the meeting with Professor Walter Klepetko, the Ministry of Health held negotiations for lung transplants of Bulgarian patients in Vienna until the end of the program with the Austrian side. We expect the Vienna Multiprofile Hospital to accept up to five Bulgarian patients per year for the provision of pulmonary transplantation. For this purpose, Bulgaria will be expected to fulfil its commitment the number of transplants carried out by Bulgarian citizens in Vienna to meet the number of authorities sent to the Eurotransplant. According to the practice adopted by the Eurotransplant, examinations and studies should be carried out in the first place of the appropriate Bulgarian patients in the country, after which as a rule the Transplantation Centre in Vienna will carry out research, after which the Bulgarian patients will be included in the general list of patients waiting on the Eurotransplant. For the purposes of modernisation of the transplantation system in Bulgaria, the Ministry of Health finalises the Project of the National Donation and Transplantation Programme 2019 - 2023, which includes measures and actions in the following areas: donation and all its aspects; establishment of programmes to improve the quality of transplantation activity in each hospital where there is potential for organ donation; improvement of the knowledge and skills for communication of health professionals on organ transplantation; support of donor coordinators; training of teams of Bulgarian specialists. An action plan will also be developed for the purpose of implementing and reporting the Programme. An important focus in the action plan is on the future lung transplant program. In this regard, we have foreseen the establishment of the Center for Lung Transplantation at the University Hospital of St. Ekaterina and the Military Medical Academy, the establishment of a lung transplantation team, the appointment by the Minister of Health of the Programme Director of the lung transplantation team, whose task will be to monitor the entire process of the lung transplantation team. The existence of an effective system in the organization of activities and the entire donation process is a key factor in increasing its level. In this regard, we consider the need to improve the hospital organization in transplants. The model of Spain with donor coordinators, anesthesiologists-reanimators is applicable to Bulgaria because it does not require additional time and a large financial resources for training. In every hospital with intensive care unit, where there are potential corpse donors, there are donor coordinators, part-time doctors and full-time nurses. These specialists have the basics of resuscitation treatment and their experience in communicating with the relatives of patients with life-threatening diseases is of great benefit. This helps to overcome problems leading to missing opportunities for donation, such as not identifying donors, not asking families if they allow donation and the like. It is necessary to develop policies to encourage medical institutions to actively engage in organ donation. Such policies should concern financial and other resource issues related to organ donation, e.g. the number of intensive treatment beds, available means of making, the cost of maintaining patients to monitor such treatment, the severe brain death or organ donation procedure to be sufficient and well-organised so that medical institutions strive to ensure a maximum number of donors. When performing transplants by corpse donors, funding is regulated by the Organ, Tissue and Cell Transplant Act and Ordinance No 29 of 2007. In the case of live donation and transplants, a state or state-controlled institution pays the costs incurred for the donor on the basis of the above regulations. Strategic priorities for upgrading the transplant system. The process of creating a modern transplant system requires careful planning and defining all necessary strategic objectives. First of all, it is a strategic priority for us to include all major hospitals in the activities of donation policy. Smaller hospitals, which have a suspected case of a potential donor and practical and/or legal inability to realize donation, should be given the opportunity to have a permanent connection and transport to an appropriate structure of a donor or transplant centre nearby, remaining opportunities for reimbursing the financial costs incurred by the small centre until the transfer to the larger one. It is essential to create and implement an appropriate financial model for reimbursement of costs and motivation of teams. A strategic priority for us is the conduct of a public education campaign and the awakening of the problem of donation. An extremely important priority in our strategic preparation is to be introduced and to be applicable in practice Programme for evaluation and conditioning of donors in hospital units. We will also focus on measures related to the implementation of best medical practice and intensive care in patients who are in severe brain damage, regardless of the possible poor prognosis regarding their lives, active involvement of medical institutions in the process of engaging their administration, including a report on the work done, a work system and rules for hospital coordinators. We also plan to implement changes in the Bulgarian legislation, which will cover Ordinance No 29 of 2007 on reimbursement of costs and the relative share of labour funds, on transplantation activities financed by the Ministry of Health. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, there is much to be done, but we have set the beginning and we will not give up on achieving our goals - Bulgarian patients to have access to a better chance of life. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u83	Thank you, dear Minister. My fellow Members, I am opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you are, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will be very brief, Mr. Minister and honourable colleagues, as there are others willing to speak. I want to protect you from the fact that we have started the beginning of 1968, and this was one of those that we have developed that, unfortunately, Bulgaria has missed a very large period of time. Now, in particular, let me tell you a few things I consider a transplantist. The first thing to understand is that the organization is at an extremely low level in Bulgaria. Taking care of what you have shared to a brain-dead patient requires tremendous concentration and enormous dedication of the teams. They say that in this form of organization and control and in the absence of funding, after passing, in a figure of speech, 72 hours of control of a donor situation, no one is willing to continue this work. Yes! And you see how serious things are and how many characteristics are still missing, there is no no nosocomial characteristic of the patient's mortality. The second thing: because you talked about Croatia and I have an idea of this meeting your colleague has submitted 24-hour control to all hospitals that are connected in the donation system. Your colleague has also presented the division of Croatia into segments in relation to what I mentioned to her the assessment of heart death in a transport accident and the possibility of explantation in the ambulance when it is certainly not brain but heart death. These are extremely important questions! These issues must be resolved jointly with the Ministry of Interior, except the Ministry of Health. And the most important thing I want to tell you is there are many technological issues that are not to be discussed here in this Chamber. In Bulgaria, it should be seriously considered because we Bulgarians want to lead a father's company...................................... because we all want to lead a father's company.......................................... Between Sofia and Varna, who knows why, Varna, according to my data, there is an organ transplant, and it has a wonderful university. All this should be paid attention, as the territory of the country is not so small, its infrastructure is not so perfect and this would seriously improve the donor situation in the country. Thank you, Lord Chairman. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u85	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. - What's the line? I can't see. You have the floor, Doctor Timchev, Dr. Jaffer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Transplantation is one of the highest achievements of medicine, but it passes through death a difficult moment in one family, but at another moment gives another or others a chance to live. In Bulgaria, the so-called silent consent is accepted because, in order to have a transplant, there must be a donor. At the moment, everyone can state their disagreement to be a donor, but there is no chance for the patient or any citizen to state their consent, to give.... in the event of a sudden incident, their organs of another person. It is a matter of folksychology, a personal act, a question even of religion, and it is good that our Synod has given his support for the transplantation in Bulgaria. In studies, 75% of the parents agreed that their loved one should be used as a donor for transplantation, i.e. the problem for me is not the people, the problem is the organization of transplantation and donation in Bulgaria. And although the Law on organ, tissue and cell transplantation has been adopted, although Regulation No 6, which regulates the standard for donation and transplantation, other regulations, regulations, ultimately the patients of Bulgaria seek salvation abroad and there their treatment costs more than 200 thousand. Euros! The Ministry of Health is responsible for the organization of this entire process. I, in my clinical practice, as a doctor of the emergency team, have had dozens of incidents of young people who have had cranial and brain traumas, who have subsequently fallen into cranial and brain death, but none of the teams have thought to be prepared and provided for donors to needy patients in Bulgaria. None of these centers had any information that there were such suitable patients in our hospital. There are countries in which emergency services, teams even on site and the corpses of a deceased patient in the earliest hours, in the ambulance itself are exsanguinated organs and provided in a high organisation of medicine in the world. I mean, these teams need to be trained, Mr. Minister. Here is the time to ask you: what about the project for the training of doctors from Emergency Aid in Bulgaria? It is said that in all hospitals there are coordinators who make the organization of transplantology in Bulgaria. Professor Mihailov said that there are countries in which these coordinators give 24 hours and at every moment of these 24 hours know, for example, if there is this in Bulgaria, how many cases are on the territory of Bulgaria and are actively interested and ask doctors what is going on with the patient. Here is the place of eHealth, on which the Ministry of Health should ultimately work. Three types of transplants are made in Bulgaria. However, transplants of tissues, bones, tendons, leather are also performed, i.e. in Bulgaria there are the so-called muscle banks. Bulgaria exports such products outside as well. I wonder what is the number of such products exported from Bulgaria? The percentage of kidney transplants in Bulgaria is highest because the incidence of renal failure is also high, as Bulgaria is located in an endemic region of the so-called However, patients do not wait for the transplant and die tied to an apparatus. Think again about the conditions in the haemodialysis centers in the Republic of Bulgaria. A possibility for more donors is also what is called cross donation. I know the Ministry has a new law, but there are still obstacles in Bulgaria to implement it. Perhaps this is a matter of public discussion and of future round tables. Finally, I would like to say: the pioneers of transplantology in Bulgaria gave the pity for carrying out this highly humane and highly specialized medical work. It is our duty to give life a chance! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u87	Thank you, Dr. Timchev. - What's the line? I can't see. You have the floor, dear Dr. Jaffer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u88	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Most High has made every human being unique, unique and unreproven at this stage an organism. The human genome is represented by billions of combinations for different billions of people, and none are repeated with the other. However, a person has made it possible to carry organs, tissues, cells, substrates from one person to another. This is why the achievement, called the transplantation and transplantology, is a great achievement of medical science as part of science. Nevertheless, we must say that this unique activity requires much different things and efforts compared to other medical activities. It requires joint efforts, agreed over time, of teams most often between 15 and 20 people; of multiple hospitals which, within a few hours, have to perform a certain type of activities under a particular algorithm, to perform all procedures, activities related to monitoring, registration, regulatory settlement, explanation, transport, transplant, long and long-term monitoring and therapeutic maintenance, which lasts even longer. We need teams of resuscitators, anesthesiologists, pulmologists, cardiologists, nephrologists,.. depends on what transplant we are talking about, surgeons, immunologists, pathoanatoms and more, and more people. Most important, however, are the coordinators of the teams that have been mentioned here several times. By including relations with foreign clinics, foreign hospitals and the conditions of a Eurotransplant, dear Minister, the conditions are becoming really complex. By the time more than 150 types of organs, tissues, substrates, cells, parts can be transplanted, such are the achievements of medical science. However, this unique achievement today has become a routine activity, Mr. Minister. There are countries in which this is indeed a routine, as the previous ones have mentioned. The moment when organ transplants do not become news in Bulgaria will mean that Bulgaria has become a normal country in the field of transplantology. The task of the state and the institutions is to create the conditions for carrying out this activity and implementing those achievements which science and medicine have reached anyway. At the end of 2018, through the notorious Transitional and Final Provisions, you have taken a serious administrative and organisational step. It was about shutting down the transplant agency. You remember the debates we had in this Chamber and in the Health Committee. Then our question was what is really in common between transplants and medical audit, because you transferred transplant activities to the next megaagenia that will be created. We don't have an answer to that question. However, this does not mean that very serious steps cannot be taken to remain at the level of the organisational aspect we are talking about. It would be wrong for transplants to be dealt with in a piece, for example, now to solve the problem of lung transplants, then to solve other specific problems that become medialy known. This problem should be considered in principle: logistics, in the sense of coordination, competence of teams, capacity of medical institutions, number of donated bodies, participation in the Eurotransplant in the European network, funding, attitudes and changes in people's mentality. 2014 - 2015 are the years of the largest number of transplants carried out in Bulgaria. At least I got that from the page of the transplant agency. Colleagues corrected me for actually 1999 Bulgaria has made over 100 transplants in the field of nephrology, so Bulgaria has its peaks and declines in this area as well. You held a meeting with Professor Walter Klepetko. Congratulations, admiration for this important meeting, but the efforts must be consistent, sustainable and complex. It is not even how many are waiting in the transplant registers, it is important how many of these people have been waiting and how much longer they can wait, the extent of decompensation, the damage to other organs and systems and so on and so forth. In conclusion, I would like to say that transplants are actually not only serious scientific, medical, religious-philosophical, if you will, a problem. They are a serious moral, deontological problem and continue to be a challenge in these directions. The organisational-administrative aspect, however, is a very important aspect. Trust in institutions, respectively low trust or distrust in these institutions can make Bulgaria continue to be in unprestigious rankings in this area. We supported the submitted decision by BSP colleagues because we believe that if you want to have success as a team and all of us, as a nation, to have success in this area, a serious analysis of the transplant activity should be made...................................................................... There is no religion but a poorly represented, not so widely represented in Bulgaria to ban transplantation. In all the sacred books it is written that actually donating and helping the neighbor is the highest degree of support. Therefore, I think that in this aspect it should be borne in mind that the traditional religions in Bulgaria will most likely support your efforts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u89	Thank you, dear Dr. Jaffer. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Professor Klisarova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u90	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! I'll be brief. By what my colleagues have said, I absolutely support theirs. I heard what the Minister said. I'm a little worried that it's still going to be, but I would like to draw attention to a few precise things as a summary: volume of funding, shortage of donors, insufficient public awareness, improving the principles of distribution, maximum access to transplantation and analysis and control of results. For the amount of funding, it was precise and clear, but once again I would like to emphasise it. The motivation of teams, the motivation of coordinators and greater prominence, and a better connection between small, large hospitals and coordinators. Until we motivate both small and larger hospitals to raise these patients, to motivate the relatives of the patients, potential donors, there's no way things can happen that we want. Without donors we will neither be in the Eurotransplant nor will we be able to make good conditions for our patients in Bulgaria. In this regard, you know that there is a national programme with priority for transplantation. One centre in Bulgaria is not enough. For access to transplants and for distribution principles, there should be a second transplant centre. I thank Professor Mihailov for stressing that the right place is Varna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u91	Thank you, dear Professor Klisarova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? [[Noise and lines.]] Are there any other statements? Here you are, dear Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u92	Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I thought that there would be speeches on the right side of the Chamber, and yet the topic is important. I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for the fact that during the last year there has been good cooperation between Parliament and the Ministry and that we have nevertheless started to solve an important problem, as were the stopped lung transplants. There we came up with some results that I'm glad we did. Nevertheless, the most important thing to say in today's debate is that lung transplants do not run out of question. On the contrary, the issue is much wider and very important, given that Bulgaria, according to all statistics, has worsened its transplant and donation indicators over the last few years and that at one other time we have been, including a leading country in some areas. I want to assure you that solving the problem of transplants in Bulgaria is a serious activity. It is yet to be developed. If last year was the year of the disabled, I absolutely assure you that this year will be the year of the transplants. We've got a lot of work to do, and we're not gonna leave you until that happens. Our goal is not just to make Bulgaria a full member of the Eurotransplant, which is a complex goal. Our goal is not just for Bulgaria to participate in the transplant system. Our goal, and your goal from now on, is for Bulgaria to become a leading country in Europe in transplants, as it may be, but the relevant policies must manifest themselves. These policies, of course, must mainly implement the government and the Ministry. To the same extent, Parliament, including the parties, should participate. The youth unification of BSP launches a National campaign in support of the donation, which I hope everyone will notice. I call on all the NGOs that we worked with and had direct merit for this, Dr. Walter Klepetko to come to Bulgaria in order to reach certain agreements with him. All of us together can achieve the results. Once again, I turn to you and tell you that this is an extremely difficult job, which, I assure you, this year will be the main topic of society, i.e. the faster we find solutions, the less painful this process will be for the government. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Before I put the draft decision to the vote, I will read it again. Project! DECISION in connection with the debate on questions with No 954-05-1 of 11 January 2019 by the MPs Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev, Ivan Ibrishimov, Anelia Klisarova, Valentina Naydenova, Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on the organization of transplant treatment in Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Instructs the Minister of Health to present to the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria by 1 April 2019: analysis of the transplant activity in Bulgaria................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Action plan with scheduled specific tasks, expected results, deadlines and responsible departments to become the Republic of Bulgaria a full member of the Eurotransplant; the necessary changes to: Law on organ, tissue and cell transplantation; Ordinance No 29 of 2007 on reimbursement of costs and the relative share of labour resources for transplantation activities financed by the Ministry of Health; up-to-date standard for organ, tissue and cell transplantation; National program for promotion of organ donation, cells and blood products, made on the basis of interinstitutional cooperation. Please, voting mode. They voted 144 MPs: 144, with no objection and no abstention. The decision's been made. According to the adopted Work Programme, we will continue with: ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS AND POINTS TO THE MINISTER OF HEALTH. Minister Ananiev will answer a question from the MPs Anelia Klisarova, Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev regarding the payment of implantable cardioverter defibrillator from the National Health Insurance Fund. You have the floor, Doctor Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u95	Colleagues! Excuse me, Dr. Timchev. Colleagues, I ask you very much to either take your seats or step out of the Chamber, but ensure sufficient silence to proceed with Control.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u96	Dear Minister, we have reached a signal from the Association of Cardiostimulation and Electrophysiology and a group of patients who have been struggling for years for the overall reimbursation of implantable cardioverter defibrillator from the National Health Insurance Fund, but have not yet encountered an understanding of the institutions and there is no result in the complete reimbursation or improvement of the existing one in order to minimize the additional payment by patients. Currently the National Health Insurance Fund pays 50% of the device and the other 50% of the patients, the amount is between 3000 and 5000 BGN, which is impossible for most people. Implantable cardioverter defibrillator is the safest and most proven way to prevent sudden heart death all over the world. Unfortunately, our country is in one of the last places to implant such a defibrillator. My question to you is: will the necessary amount be separated from the National Health Insurance Fund budget for the full reimbursement of the implantable cardioverter defibrillator? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u97	Thank you, dear Dr. Timchev. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Professor Klisarova, Professor Mihailov, Dr. Yordanov and Dr. Timchev! The Association of Cardiostimulation and Electrophysiology in Bulgaria, as well as patients with cardiovascular diseases, insist on increasing the level of reimbursation of implantable cardioverter defibrillators. Those medical devices are included in Group 12-2 of a list of medical devices by group which the National Health Insurance Fund pays under the terms of hospital medical care and the value up to which it pays for each group in force from 1 April 2018. It is established in accordance with the Ordinance on the conditions and arrangements for drawing up the list of medical devices under Article 30a of the Medical Devices Act and for determining the value to which they are paid. For medical devices classified in Group 12-2, the National Health Insurance Fund currently pays up to 6 thousand. lv. Until the value indicated in the list was reached following a thorough analysis of the data provided by all hospital care facilities which reported secondary prevention of sudden cardiac death. Data on the number of patients passed by with embedded items in that group were also taken into account. Each manufacturer, respectively an authorised representative of the manufacturer, shall determine the price of the product he requests for payment by the National Health Insurance Fund. It is logical to have different prices of products depending on their category, the producer country, as well as many other market factors. It is within the powers of the National Health Insurance Fund to determine the value to which specific medical devices can pay. According to the provision of art. 20, para. 1 of the Ordinance referred to above, the National Health Insurance Fund, in accordance with the funds provided for in its budget for the calendar year concerned, shall each year determine the groups of medical devices, the prescription and the allocation requirements and the value to which they are paid. The general principle of payment of these items from the National Health Insurance Fund is laid down in art. 20, para. 2 of the Ordinance, the value being determined for the relevant group of medical devices meeting certain technical requirements and cannot be higher than the lowest price offered with a discount established by the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund. At present, the Regulation provides for the annual procedure for negotiating the value up to which the National Health Insurance Fund pays for each group of medical devices. We express our readiness to find an effective solution to the problem posed within the framework of the statutory powers of the National Health Insurance Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u99	Thank you, dear Minister. A line, Professor Klisarova?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u100	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! I understand that we have to comply with all the regulations, and so it should be, but only one fact: 70 thousand Bulgarians die of cardiovascular disease, and 70% of these 70 thousand are from sudden cardiac death. It's not about a year for more than 300 people who need it. So it's based on the statistics that I got no more than 300 people. If we introduce this method, this will also have an economic effect, because all antiarrythmic medicines will be reduced, a quality of life will be guaranteed to the people of those patients who need it will be guaranteed their inclusion in the country's economy. I don't think the funds that are invested will be the loss of the entire society. They will benefit both patients and society and the National Health Insurance Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u101	Thank you, dear Professor Klisarova. The next question to Minister Ananiev is from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Anelia Klisarova, Georgi Mihailov, Valentina Naydenova, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev and Ivan Ibrishimov on the policy of the Ministry of Health for the stay and realization in the country of graduates of their higher education in Bulgaria doctors, doctors with specialty and medical specialists, nurses and midwives. You have the floor, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Our question is about the policy of the Ministry of Health for the stay and realization in the country of graduates of their higher education in Bulgaria doctors, doctors with specialty and medical specialists, nurses and midwives, midwives, midwives, health professionals in general. I will start with the data from the latest edition of the rating system of universities in Bulgaria, which show a sustainable growth in the number of students in medical studies, i.e. the specialties in the field of medical sciences are becoming increasingly preferred by young Bulgarians, not that so far medicine has not been desired, but in recent years with a much more serious rate the students are increasing to study medicine than in some other directions such as: physical and chemical sciences, engineering sciences, pedagogy, chemical technology, mathematics and so on, where there is significantly less interest. Thus medicine rises in the rating ranking and becomes the fourth most desired course in number of students, even ahead of the traditional attractive for young Bulgarians. The growing interests of young people are explained because they give graduates an opportunity for immediate, secure and prestigious realization. All of this would be a cause for joy and should be a cause for joy, but there is one great one, because at the same time, unfortunately, we are constantly taking into account the lack of medical personnel in the healthcare system, which is already a serious problem and will deepen in the future. This is because an excessive majority of medical graduates are going to work for higher salaries abroad, and not a small part are looking for realization in another area, again for better pay. This applies not only to graduates with a degree of Master, but also to degrees of Bachelor and Specialist. Conscious organizations have long been alerting for a serious tide from the Bulgarian healthcare system. A key role in attracting and detaining health professionals, doctors, nurses and so on has the employer. In this case, this is the state. Of course, I do not exclude private employers in the field of health, but here the main role belongs to the state. The state must provide adequate remuneration, better working conditions and support for the professional development of medical personnel throughout their careers. If she copes adequately with this obligation, private employers will be forced to follow her and even overtake her. All this would keep this footage in our country. I do not know how correct it would be to say that education in the field of medicine is one of the most expensive, and apart from the semester fees that cover a small part of the cost of training, it is free of charge for the students, that is, it is paid by all Bulgarians who, in turn, suffer from the serious shortage of medical staff in Bulgaria. I will not speculate on the level of health and life expectancy in Bulgaria, but the lack of medical personnel is a serious problem. The rulers claim to know the problem very well, but the solution, unfortunately, is not visible. It is imperative to take measures for the detention of the medics in Bulgaria and in this context, Mr. Minister, our question to you is: what is the policy of the Ministry of Health about the graduates of their higher education in Bulgaria doctors, doctors with specialty and medical specialists to stay and to be realized in the country?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u103	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Gokov and MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. It is extremely important for both the healthcare system and society that the training in Bulgaria, medical professionals should be motivated and remain to develop in the country. The measures for detention of medical professionals in the country should be aimed at creating favorable opportunities for professional development, including decent pay for their work, good working conditions, opportunities for training, the formation of respectable attitude by the public and the media, providing opportunities for active participation in the decision-making process that concerns them. Creating favourable opportunities for professional development aimed at keeping medical professionals in the country is a priority measure in the work of the current team of the management of the Ministry of Health. An essential part of the professional development of medical specialists is training to acquire a specialty. In recent years, a number of regulatory changes have been implemented aimed at creating attractive conditions for specialization in line with European requirements. Ordinance No 1 of 2015 on the acquisition of a specialty for the health system was introduced a conceptual change in the terms and conditions of specialization. Significantly eased access and improved training conditions for acquiring a specialty. For the period of its action Regulation No 1 proved to be a successful step towards a better functioning system for specializations. For the first time after Bulgaria's accession to the European Union, the organizations representing the students and residents assessed the Regulation positively, stressed their satisfaction with the concept of specialization in clinical specialties to be conducted on the basis of a contract of employment. The success of Regulation No 1 is also confirmed by the fact that about 70% of graduates in the last three years of doctors are already residents under this regulation. Regulation No 1 lays a good foundation allowing it to be upgraded and further developed. The draft Ordinance on Amendment and Supplement to Regulation No 1 published on 30 January 2019 aims to eliminate both the problems and gaps identified at the time and to introduce an effective mechanism for carrying out the state policy on the provision of the necessary specialists. With the amendments to the Ordinance, the Ministry provides to subsidise training bases for places financed by the State in clinical specialities, which is an opportunity for the State to have an impact in the event of a shortage of specialists in certain specialities or in certain regions. In this way, the state policy in providing the necessary specialists will be carried out with funding from the state budget and will not be at the expense of the budget of the medical institutions. The medical facility receiving a subsidy will be obliged to appoint the resident after the acquisition of a specialty for a period equal to the period of training for which the subsidy has been paid, with the exception of general medicine residents who will be obliged to work as general practitioners on the territory of the country. If the medical establishment or resident fails to fulfil this obligation, the party concerned will recover the subsidy. The conditions for general medicine specialization have been improved. It will be carried out in accordance with the general order of clinical specialties on the basis of a fixed contract of employment of a resident position and not on the basis of an order of the Rector. This will solve the main problem of lack of income during the specialization. The Ministry of Health will subsidise general medicine training bases for places financed by the state. Thus, general medicine specialization will not burden the budget of the primary medical care facility. Changes are also envisaged aimed at achieving greater stability and predictability in the employment relations of residents who have acquired another specialty assigned to a training base or holding an academic position in higher schools by dropping the requirement that these residents change their fixed-term employment contract to a fixed-term contract of office as a resident. Another envisaged change is that the occupation of resident posts should be carried out after a competition under the order of the Labour Code. This will achieve greater objectivity of the way students are appointed in clinical studies by introducing the competition start at their reception. A separate section has also been developed for dentists; relief is provided for residents when they are admitted to a state exam; it is also intended to drop the requirement that training fees be linked to the monthly minimum wage for the country; changes are developed at operational level that will improve certain aspects of the training process. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In addition, it is important to stress that in the last ten years there has been a clear tendency to reduce the number of certificates issued by the Ministry of Health necessary for the exercise of a profession doctor abroad to Bulgarian citizens. The reduction is more than three times from 655 in 2008, to 203 for 2018, and is particularly intensive after the entry into force of Regulation No 1, when the number of certificates is reduced twice. To conclude, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Health is discussing and analyzing the problems and difficulties that have arisen with regard to training to acquire a specialty in the healthcare system and looking for optimal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u105	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for further questions, Professor Klisarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u106	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! I would like to thank you for the detailed answer and for focusing on Regulation No 1. The results of Regulation No 1 are positive, and the changes that have been proposed, which I hope will enter into force, even more improve the conditions for specializations, which is one way to keep the young Bulgarian doctors in Bulgaria. I would like to pay very serious attention to one point in the Regulation because it guarantees specialization. The state finances this specialization, but does not guarantee the territorial distribution of doctors. Let's do the organization like this. I give an example: a small hospital or a hospital in Provadia, or DCC needs a neurologist. Let it state this issue, it should go to the University Hospital in Varna. The residency is 4 years, respectively the state finances this specialization because there is a need for such a specialist, but then the medical institution.St. Marina is not able to appoint for four years the doctor, and this medical institution that has requested the specialization order because, unfortunately, small medical institutions are not able to carry out specializations. I think this can be changed, it is a question: do you accept this proposal? I'm also making a second proposal about nurses. Their request at our meetings: in the fourth year, when they are already the major internship, they should have profiled specializations because there is a difference between a nurse or a nurse who will work in cardiosurgery to have the possibility of additional scholarships from medical institutions, for which there is now no ban, but to be with a contract and remain working in Bulgaria on what they specialize in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u107	Thank you, dear Professor Klisarova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Professor Klisarova, the first proposal you made We foresee this text to be supplemented and to give the opportunity that you have proposed. This is necessary because we also need doctors in establishments where we have a shortage of such specialists and this will be reflected in the final version of Regulation No 1. To the second question, you answered your own question, we support this proposal. I hope it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u109	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor, dear Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! We are all aware that health care needs are increasing due to a number of factors, one of which is the ageing of the population, and the staff is decreasing, including as many of them reach their retirement age and the emigration of those at workable age. Thus, the sustainability of our health system and access to health care are put at risk, that is, our national security is at risk. The training of staff in healthcare should be a priority for everyone in Bulgaria from the ordinary Bulgarian citizen to the Minister of Health and Prime Minister. The users of the health care system, the patients, the Bulgarians, deserve to have access to the highest quality care provided by well-trained and qualified specialists to ensure safe and high level service. It is essential to attract and retain these personnel in healthcare. The conviction you have also confirmed on our questioning is that with the first part of the problem, we are doing better with the training of the necessary amount of staff for health care, if I may say so. The number of students who want to study medicine is increasing, and the state reception is increasing, the number of graduates is increasing. I will not comment on whether this fact is due to the implementation of forward-looking training policies by the government or is the result of the good prospects for the realization of graduates, including abroad. I must point out that it is a problem and the balance between the right specialists with the necessary knowledge and skills in the respective regions of the country. In order to meet the changing needs of the population and the health system, it is necessary to have a balance, but at this moment I do not see one being achieved. There is a huge cluster in the capital and large cities at the expense of small towns, especially in villages and in less developed economic areas. The trends in the labour market and the forecast for the needs of personnel in Bulgaria, in Europe and in the world show a serious shortage of qualified specialists in all sectors, including in the health and social care sectors in the short, medium and long term. The head of healthcare in Bulgaria seems to have no idea how to deal with this problem. We need to focus on the problem and generate solutions. As the first steps in this direction, I see in an in-depth analysis of the problem on the basis of which to develop effective, working, consensus, time-resistant policies and strategies for training and retention of health professionals; linking free training with staying in the country; initiating common European training policies; attracting and detaining medical personnel to remove our country from the state of a state, source, donor health professionals and taking them to countries that attract staff; applying adequate policies on medical personnel' income in conditions of combining financial incentives with other types of measures to attract and retain, such as the possibility of a successful career in a good working environment, because financial incentives themselves will hardly exceed even neighbouring countries. In general, training, attracting and detaining staff is a challenge and an urgent problem which must be addressed urgently by those responsible for the development of health policies, i.e. by you, Mr. Minister. We are available to assist in this direction. I think the subject is extremely extensive, and we could even provoke debates. However, we will observe and offer our solutions. I hope we will be useful to Bulgaria and the people of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u111	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. The next question to Minister Ananiev is from the MP Milen Mihov and is about the organization and activity of emergency medical care. You have the floor, Professor Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u112	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, in recent weeks we have witnessed violence on emergency medical teams in my electoral Veliko Tarnovo region. Unfortunately, in the coming days there were similar cases in other places. Wide public attention has become the case in Gorna Oryahovitsa, where it has come to the mass deposit of resignations, which, fortunately, have been withdrawn after the measures you have taken. In my meetings with the medics in Gorna Oryahovitsa, some questions were raised that also concern the issues of regulation, organisation and activity of emergency assistance. These are related to the extreme loading of emergency care centres with non-existent functions and, above all, the care of uninsured patients. These centres are medical facilities where medical professionals provide emergency medical care to sick and injured persons at home, at the scene and during transport to their possible hospitalization. In practice, in many cases these centres are used as a way of obtaining health services to uninsured patients. Often, some, in quotes, patients, taking advantage of the 112 emergency phone system, call teams for cases that are not of an emergency nature and receive a review, if necessary, research and appointment of treatment. This, in addition to the costs of medical activities which are not subject to reimbursement from the Cashier, leads to the task of the teams and creates risks for response in actual emergencies, at the risk of the lives of other citizens. There are not many cases of false calls and calls of emergency teams. The National Emergency System Act with a single European number 112 provides that when using this number illegally, not by purpose, is punishable by a fine from 200 to 1000 BGN and which transmits by 112 false or misleading messages and signals of assistance is punished by a fine from 2000 to 5000 BGN if it is not subject to a more severe punishment. The application of these provisions in many cases proves impossible. Dear Minister, on the basis of the above, I ask you to answer the following question: what measures are needed to put an end to the abuse of emergency aid by some, in quotes, citizens and, secondly, how can the protection of emergency teams be organised more effectively against aggression and attacks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u113	Thank you, dear Associate Professor Mihov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Mihov, according to art. 82, para. 1, t. 1 of the Health Act, outside the scope of compulsory health insurance to Bulgarian citizens are provided medical services that are related to medical care in emergency situations. The fact is that in many cases submitted via phone 112 is not an emergency condition, which leads to the involvement of an emergency medical team not to overcome an emergency condition, but to a simple infirmary examination. Overcoming this fact has proved a difficult task because some of the citizens use false, misleading data when submitting information determining their condition. The Ministry of Health, respectively emergency medical centers, shall conduct training of dispatch teams receiving emergency calls for maximum use of medical triage according to the medical standard. For the organisation of the protection of emergency medical teams against aggression and attacks in March 2015, an Agreement on Cooperation and Interaction between the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Health, with which the Parties agree to cooperate and interact in carrying out the activities of prevention, detection and investigation of crimes related to the management, activity and organisation of medical services, as well as in the cases of violence against staff from emergency care centres and health care professionals was concluded. According to an order of 14 August 2017 of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria and an order of 25 September 2017 of the Minister of Health meetings were held on the ground with representatives of the district prosecutors, representatives of the emergency medical centers and representatives of the medical institutions for adoption of specific measures for immediate response by the Prosecutor's Office in the event of crimes committed with regard to medical professionals. On-call medical teams must report cases of violations to district prosecutors, send information about false calls to emergency reception and service centres to 112. Places in emergency medical centers and their affiliates have taken action to ensure physical security, to place video cameras at the entrances, to provide panic buttons. In order to improve the working conditions of the emergency medical care system, as has been repeatedly referred to, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, the Ministry of Health performs as a specific beneficiary a project supporting the development of the emergency medical care system financed by the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth 2014 - 2020" with a total budget of 164 million. lv. and implementation period until 23 October 2021. The main objective of the project is the renewal and modernisation of the building fund and equipment in the emergency care system throughout the country, the emergency rooms of 34 hospital care facilities, 27 emergency care centers and the 170 emergency care facilities and 6 exported teams. The project will provide quality, equal and timely access to emergency medical services for citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria and residents of its territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u115	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Professor Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u116	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, I thank you for your answer. You rightly pointed out in it that some of the main issues in the emergency system are the working conditions. After the measures taken, the financial security and the improvement of payment, this is the most basic issue, insofar as I have the impression of this system. I allow myself to share what the medics mentioned in connection, above all, with the load for the use of emergency assistance as an infirmary review, the possibility that, after carrying out these medical activities, they will be requited by the people who received this assistance on the way to emergency assistance, although there are other options. A simple state of high fever at night may be examined and prescribed treatment, but accordingly the person to take on this luxury that he called for emergency care at night and did not seek timely medical care from his personal physician. This, of course, is within your expertise and competence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-07.u117	Thank you, dear Associate Professor Mihov. This concludes the questions to Minister Ananiev. Dear Minister, thank you for your participation today. You have seen that in the National Assembly all parliamentary groups support your transplantation policy. This is a good signal that we can support you where we need to. Thank you again. My fellow Members, I will read you parliamentary control reports for February 8, 2019, Friday. Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova will answer one question from the MP Georgi Gokov. He'll respond in 12:30. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer three questions from the MPs Kristian Vigenin two questions; and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov. The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer two questions from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov and Lyubomir Bonev; and Ivelina Vassileva. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer six questions from the MPs Pencho Milkov; Lyubomir Bonev; Nikolay Tishev; Stefan Burgeev; Dora Yankova; Kristina Sidorova; and one question from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov will answer two questions from the MPs Rumen Georgiev; and Kristian Vigenin. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the MP Krasimir Yankov. Tourism Minister Nikolina Angelkova will answer two questions from the MPs Ivelina Vassileva, Dimitar Boychev and Diana Savateva; and Dora Yankova. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov. Interior Minister Mladen Marinov will answer a question from the MP Georgi Gokov. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer a question from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova and a question from the MPs Violeta Jeleva and Nadia Klisurska. The Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva will answer a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer two questions from the MPs Donka Simeonova; and Anelia Klisarova and one question from the National Representative Tanya Petrova. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova supposed to two questions by the MPs Stanislav Vladimirov; and Veska Nencheva; and 26 questions with written answer from the MPs Zhelyo Boychev and Hristo Prodanov; Alexander Simov; Nikolay Ivanov and Ivan Genov; Pencho Milkov and Georgi Stoilov; Yordan Mladenov and Nadya Klisurska; Vesela Lecheva and Valentin Lambev; Svetla Bachvarova; Stanislav Vladimirov and Lubomir Bonev; Ivan Ibrishimov; Georgi Gokov; Christian Vigenin and Nikolay Penev; Milko Nedyalkov; Anelia Klisarova and Ivan Dimov Ivan Ivanov; Tztan Topchiev and Filip Popov; Ivan Chenchev and Radoslav Popov; Ivan Chev and Radoslav Stoyan Stoyan Ivanov, Mr. - the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov of a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov, Pencho Milkov and Krum Zarkov; and to a question with a written answer from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to a question written by the MPs Teodora Halacheva and Dimitar Georgiev. Due to the absence of MPs for respectable reasons, the answer to a question by the MPs Ivelina Vassileva, Dimitar Boychev and Diana Savateva to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova is postponed. The next regular plenary sitting on 8 February 2019 at 9.00 in accordance with the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
