ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[Ringing]] . I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, we are continuing on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR LOCAL SELF-ORGANIZATION AND LOCAL ADMINISTERATION. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 22 February 2019. Point one for today. The report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government will present to us Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 902-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 4 April 2019 the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 902-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 February 2019. In the meeting of the Commission took part: Ms. Rositsa Velkova Deputy Minister of Finance; representatives of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as of the National Association of Presidents of Municipal Councils in the Republic of Bulgaria. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Velkova. The draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration is drawn up in relation to the need to improve the current regulations governing the powers of municipal councils, mayors of municipalities and mayors of districts and mayors in the process of drafting and implementing municipal budgets. The proposed changes introduce an obligation of the municipal council when adopting the budget of the municipality to approve expenditure on certain indicators of the districts and town halls within the general budget of the municipality, it is laid down an obligation for the mayor of the municipality in the course of the implementation of the budget to provide the approved expenditure on the budget of the mayors in due time during the year. It shall be possible for mayors of mayors or persons authorised by them to participate in the selection committees of candidates and participants, examination and evaluation of tenders and negotiation and dialogue in the conduct of public contracts in the commission for the commission for the commission for commissioning of construction works, as well as in the preparation of acts and protocols during construction, where the sites are on the territory of the mayors. The proposed changes will ensure greater financial autonomy of the town halls, will strengthen the personal responsibility of each mayor of the town hall with regard to the spending of the approved annual expenses of the municipality budget, it will be possible for the mayors through their representatives to participate in the overall process of preparing the offers, construction works and acceptance committees for sites located in the territory of the town hall. The control of compliance with the new provisions will be carried out within the framework of the control of compliance with the regulations governing the budgetary, financial and accounting activities of municipalities in the case of financial inspections by the bodies of the Agency for State Financial Inspection. The Commission received opinions on the draft Law from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and from the National Association of Mayors of City Halls in the Republic of Bulgaria. In the opinion of the National Association of Mayors of Mayors there is some disagreement with some of the proposed changes and there is doubt that they will not lead to a practical result. The National Association of Municipalities does not support the Bill. The opinion, expressed also during the Commission's meeting, disagreed with the proposed changes, noting that in the practice of a number of municipalities there are better and diverse examples of interaction with the town halls than the proposed changes in the Law. On the part of the representatives of the National Association of Presidents of the Municipal Councils was expressed principled support for the Bill, and a proposal was made to discuss between the two votes the possibility of distinguishing the town halls to which the proposed approach should be applied, depending on the size of the population determined by number of residents. During the discussion, the MPs supported the proposed changes in principle, while also addressing a number of questions to the importers and remarks to the Bill. In the speeches it was noted that the changes were dictated by the legitimate discontent of a number of mayors of town halls, caused by the negative practice of some municipalities for individual settlements in the municipality to be set aside symbolic and in some cases no funds from municipal budgets, and the same to concentrate predominantly in the locality of the municipal center. It has been noted that the proposed changes do not give sufficient clarity on how and by whom in practical terms the funds will be spent, which will be provided in the budget for individual town halls. A common position was expressed that between the two votes it will be necessary to refine separate provisions of the Project, as well as to make additional proposals to make the Law practically operational and applicable. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 11 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 902-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers, proposed to the National Assembly to be adopted in the first vote the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to hear the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. He'll introduce us to Mrs. Angelova. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 902-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 February 2019. At a meeting held on 4 April 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Local Government and Local Administration Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Marinella Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The Bill proposes changes aimed at improving the current legal framework concerning the powers of municipal councils, mayors of municipalities and mayors of mayors of municipal budgets. The following changes are proposed: 1. An obligation of the municipal council when adopting the municipality budget is introduced to approve expenditure on certain indicators of the town halls within the general budget of the municipality. 2. An obligation is introduced by the mayor of the municipality in the implementation of the budget to ensure the approved expenditures of the mayors' budgets in due time during the year. 3. An opportunity shall be created when funding sites in the territory of the town halls and contracting entity shall be the mayor of the municipality, mayors of the town halls or persons authorised by them to participate in the committees under art. 103 of the Public Procurement Act, in the commission for commissioning the commission for commissioning of construction works, as well as when drawing up acts and protocols during construction. The proposed changes will ensure greater financial autonomy of the town halls and will strengthen the personal responsibility of the mayors of the town halls when spending the expenses approved under the budget of the municipality. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held with the following results: 14 votes for the draft, without the opposition and abstention. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, on the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Local Government and Local Administration, No 902-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 February 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. I am opening the discussions on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. Are there any requests for speeches? Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I cannot say a few words, although in practice the bill was unanimously supported in the framework of the Commission's meeting, of course, which I am in charge of. He's not single at all. In fact, to be or not to be supported, it was a very long debate and prevailed the view that we should support the idea itself, not so much the written texts in the Law. As the reports say delicately, however, that individual texts must be refined, we need to be aware that there are in practice three texts of three paragraphs in this law and all of them must be changed if we want the Law to work. It is a sad practice that on the basis of the election results often happens those municipal mayors who have certain charàctor features after the elections discriminate entire settlements because representatives of their opponents have taken the elections for mayors of mayors. It happens during the entire term, sometimes in quite a number of mandates, that a local place is doomed to absolute isolation. It is a lack of funds from the municipal budget because the local mayor in question, as loved by the population as he is, is not loved by the municipal governor and the majority of the municipal council. We must really try to overcome this vice. However, the written texts in no way guarantee that this will happen. Because with the envisaged hypothesis, the municipal councils should be required to be individually scheduled for the respective town halls, in no way create a commitment to the amount of these funds. In practice, predicting 10 leva to the mayor, for example. In order to change light bulbs at City Hall, the municipal council will have fulfilled its obligation, but in no way will we have helped patch the holes on the street network of the respective settlement. At the same time, binding a percentage of the budget to the population or to the revenues generated by the population itself are methods that go back to nothingness. Often, especially small settlements consume much more construction and repair work than they generate. This is a practice that exists in all municipalities, but does not mean that a small settlement should be deprived of funding altogether, because it means to wipe it off the map sooner or later. So the question is quite complicated. Personally, my belief is that what we need to do may be to create an obligation of the municipal council to create rules that ensure the fair financing of the town halls, to rely on this ability of local self-government to practically correct itself and give good examples, which they have often proved to be capable of doing in the end. In this case, I and my fellow Members from the European Union will support this bill with our vote, but especially as the beginning of a debate, and not as much as a clear concept of what will be done in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u7	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Are there any lines to the statement? There was a request from Mr. Shishkov, then Mr. Atanasov. Let's alternate groups. Mr. Shishkov, come in, you've given a timely request.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! At the risk of repeating some of the things Mr. Veselinov has given, I would like to put to a wide debate this topic, because indeed in recent years the topic of relations between mayors of mayors and mayors of municipalities has reached some, I would say, unpredictable distances. This law is the result of numerous meetings between the National Association of Mayors of City Halls both here in the National Assembly with the different parliamentary groups, and you remember the meeting with the Prime Minister Mr. Boyko Borisov, at which a meeting was undertaken to make the necessary changes, so that the mayors of the mayors would get their own, I would say, partial autonomy, as they are currently in one situation, which is mildly between the hammer and the anvil. This law was established in 1993, which is more than 26 years old, which largely suggests its archaicness... that the texts are no longer relevant, that much of them need a serious change. Moreover, I have been in the local government since 2007, and from the moment I joined as a municipal councillor, I have been hearing from time to time that someone from somewhere is proposing a whole new law on local self-government, which we have not yet seen in the National Assembly to this day. Indeed, some of the texts recorded in ZMSA are really very old. Given that public relations have changed significantly over the past 30 years, it is necessary to make a revision and bring in correct proposals so that this law can work in a much better light. I would say that most of us come from the local authorities, and each of us, more or less, partially or entirely, has faced the problem of the relationship between municipal mayor and mayor of town hall. Each of us in one form or another has been introduced to these problems. Of course, there are municipalities in which there is harmony between municipal and small mayors, but there are municipalities in which the conflict has reached such a level that practically life in small towns has stopped. This is precisely the idea of this bill, which we generally support, but, of course, there will have to be substantial adjustments between first and second readings, some minimum funds to be laid down in municipal budgets to be allocated to the respective town halls. It is difficult to find the exact formula, since there are really city halls that have inhabitants 5, 6 thousand people and up. There are mayorships that are less than 500 people, and it is very difficult to find the right balance what the size of this budget will have to be determined by the municipal treasury. However, I believe that during discussions, during working groups, we will be able to find the exact recipe so that most of the problems of these mayors can actually be solved and not have to, as they have set their example, for a nail to walk, to pray to the mayor to give them a service advance. I express my position that some natural indicators should be introduced, for example the number of population, area, income, other similar ones to be fixed in the Law, so as to ensure some minimum budgets for these town halls. I would like to call on you to support the Draft in the first vote by giving a clear statement that between the first and second votes the necessary adjustments will be made so that all opinions of both the National Association of Municipalities and the National Association of Mayors of City Halls can be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u9	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. The next statement is by Mr. Slavcho Atanasov, then Mr. Ali. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council! At first reading in principle, at least I will support this bill, do not comment on my parliamentary group, but between the two readings there should be extremely serious precision. I will tell you why we will create an extremely serious problem in the three major cities. It is about where we have district mayors, it is about Sofia, Plovdiv and Varna. There are 24 regions in Sofia, there are five in Varna, there are six in Plovdiv. What's the situation right now? Regional mayors are elective and are secondary authorising officers. If, at the moment, with these changes, we also give separate budgets to the districts, we must very clearly specify it in the Law, we will turn these cities, for example, in Sofia, 24, into separate, completely separate district mayors. The mayor of the big city, such as Sofia, Plovdiv and Varna, in this case, colleagues, will be with only representative functions. They're just creating separate feudal domains in these three cities, believe me, you'll see. I have always argued that in the three major cities, the old system should be used for the district mayors to be appointed by the mayor by voting by the municipal councils, that is, the mayor should not be able to appoint them individually, but to go through the municipal councils. At the moment for thousands of reasons and purely political, things are not the case. Since I have been one, and Mr. Gurnevsky from the Chamber has been one, we can confirm that a mayor of a big city can do nothing, believe me, can do nothing to influence a district mayor... neither can he punish him nor can he fire him, nothing can do! [[Heckling]] Sometimes there are great collisions, because for good reason the district mayor says: "Excuse me, Mr. Mayor, but I am also chosen by you directly by the population of the district concerned. Another point is that usually for district mayors there are differences, but people vote for the big mayor and support the smaller one accordingly. That's what's happening right now. Now, if we give the district mayors and our own budgets, I'm only talking about the three cities with a population of two and a half million, you know, if we give these mayors and our own budgets, the three big cities, we basically split them up into small towns, completely independent of each other. For a city should be a whole policy, not a piece! We're really gonna create some serious chaos in the three big cities. Another is the question, if you agree, I am willing to give this proposal, to do so to get back the old system, to appoint and elect regional mayors by municipal councils, as was the old system. In your experience, it's better for me and Mr. Gurnevsky will support me because as mayors and I, he's suffered from these things too. Now, in practice, with the own budget in the three cities, colleagues, we are creating absolutely independent new mayors. Then what do we choose this mayor of the big city for? What's he gonna do? What's he gonna do? There will be only one representative function to walk to cut strips when an object is discovered. This is the situation with nothing to affect its regional mayors, nothing to do with! It is now, but when we give them the money, the game is over.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u11	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Ali, you have requested the floor of speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms at first reading will support the Local Government and Local Administration Bill. As my colleagues have mentioned before me, there are a lot of discrepancies that need to be changed between first and second readings, given that several laws will oppose here and I will justify why. I understand that the mayors of settlements want to be more independent, have their own budgets, de facto have a financial decentralisation for them as well. But this decentralisation, which we have been talking about for years, has not, in principle, been carried out even to the mayors of municipalities and mayors of districts. Why would I say that? Because we are only talking about obligations to mayors, about delegated rights, without financial guarantees, and at some point these municipalities, settlements and especially those in smaller towns are somewhere around 177 municipalities of 266 such in the Republic of Bulgaria. Large regional cities and large municipalities have more independent, own financial revenues, but this does not mean that small municipalities are in the same way. My fellow Members, I understand that with this financial decentralisation, which we are talking about with this bill, about the rights of local mayors to have their own budgets, we will face huge problems. Therefore, before second reading, the Commission must also take the Public Procurement Act very seriously. Why? In one such decision of the municipal council and under some financial orders to the local mayor, he must keep records. Is there such administrative capacity in a locality?! During the Commission I asked the Deputy Minister of Finance: whether these mayors have BULSTAT, or should they be registered as such with BULSTAT, should they have accountants, should they have accountability, should they issue invoices? You have to, you have to, you have a lot of things that do not correspond to such proposals at the first reading bill. In this regard, I believe that this cannot happen with the proposed texts. Imagine that in a municipality very difficult, especially in small towns, there is even an architect to these administrations, chief engineers, lack of personnel, and even for a populated area to control a process, such as construction, as local mayors want. They want to participate in public procurement in the committees themselves or their representatives. How will they pay an engineer or specialist to participate on their behalf in setting a contract for a particular construction? How will they be accounted for? How will they account for these materials they will purchase as building materials? You know there are restrictions in the Public Procurement Act. Each mayor of the municipality must hold a public contract for construction materials at the beginning of the budget year. They must comply that de facto this mayor of a populated area cannot purchase by his own presumption certain material without knowledge or beyond what the company has earned as a public procurement for the supply of such materials. It's very complicated here. I think it takes a lot of work to come up with a serious issue. We're all for financial decentralisation. We are all about the mayors having independence, having their own budgets, but it takes a serious approach to have an effect on the entire bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Hristov asked for the floor. Come in for a statement, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm still smiling because I didn't make a line for Mr. Atanasov. I wish I could tell him that you could be accused of totalitarianism or something else. I understand you as mayor of a big city. What you are proposing is interesting as a view right in today's setting. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At first glance, the bill that is being proposed to us is a step towards decentralisation. Optimists could see something different, deeper even in this bill, for example, that we support the principle of subsidiarity. At second glance, however, things are a little different. In my opinion, the proposed changes aim rather to put a framework on the mayors of municipal councils. Let us not forget that the Constitution defines as the main administrative and territorial unit of the municipality, not the City Hall. The whole legislation concerning local self-government is based on the fact that the municipality is the main unit. There are municipalities that have more than 50 city halls. This bill, if adopted as it is, will lead to very complex relationships in these large municipalities. With the amendment of the Law on Local Self-Management........................................................................................... 21, what is offered to us in essence? In the first part we are proposed to amend the Public Finance Act in its part art. 45. However, the change of art. 45 has already changed the relations in the formation, the vote, the distribution of the municipal budget, the control of the municipal budget. I do not understand why instead of changing § 45 of the Public Finance Act in para. 1, t. 1 and 2, we are only offered to change part of the item. 2 of the cited article of the Public Finance Act. If this were done, some of the changes proposed by § 2 and § 3 of the Bill would not have a place because the Bill proposes to redistribute funds only in the expenditure section. They are not at all bound as philosophy and as subsequent control by the revenue side of the budget. This will cause a lot of problems for the city mayors. This will create a lot of problems in the relationship between municipal mayor, municipal council and mayor of a settlement. We, essentially, trying to make a decentralisation and distribute fair and fair, fair or not, the funds that are being allocated to the municipality will create problems. Here I open a clamp that maybe a little bit in advance, trying to solve some interpersonal problems, we will create problems essentially in relations between mayors in a society of different levels. That's the first part. I would think, if we were going in this direction, whether or not to tie the change in the cost of the municipal budget under the Public Finance Act and the revenue section. That is, mayors of mayors, no matter how big they are, begin to feel connected not only to the cost but also to the revenue side. However, this will open another problem because it will be clearly shown that there are mayorships that cannot in any way give as much revenue as they spend. In fact, they are supported at the expense of the large municipality. This, in turn, will now open another conversation. So I think that before the second reading, we should very carefully consider what we can afford to change. For me, change should be in the Public Finance Act. Otherwise, there will be a disagreement between the two laws. The main one in this case is the Public Finance Act. We are also offered, above all, by § 2 and 3, to change another Law "The Public Procurement Act." The weirdest thing is that the proposals do not actually happen in the order in which at least I find them normal by means of transitional and final provisions. We are offered by texts of the Law itself to come into conflict with the already existing texts of basic laws, because the Public Procurement Act regulates matters not only in the municipalities in this sense. Making an exception in the Public Procurement Act, imposing on the mayors of municipalities the obligation to include them as proposed by the applicant representatives of the mayors of the mayors of the town halls, we are essentially making an exception in the Public Finance Act by changing the text in another law. This opens the door for everyone else who is somehow involved in public procurement to ask for their exceptions in the texts of the Public Procurement Act. This will now make the Public Procurement Act in this part absolutely unenforceable, I would say harmful. I would rather support the second proposal in this § 2, where it is proposed to include representatives of the mayors, of the town halls, in the adoption of already completed sites. We could also include them in the current control of the implementation of the activities entrusted. This is done in many places, in many town halls, working successfully, proven in practice. By the way, in the existing legislation there is no prohibition in the municipal budget, especially in the applications of the municipal budget, to allocate expenditure in different areas and in town halls. That's what you do, too. I can give an example of the application for the capital programme in the municipal budget, where we can even get to the name list of the proposed capital costs, which is essentially done in many municipalities. So we have a good practice in part of the municipalities in Bulgaria. We should not try by changing legislation to solve private problems. In essence, importers have tried to meet the demands. Here I recognize in many ways they are fair to the mayors of small town halls. In its opinion, the Association of Mayors rejects essentially the proposed changes, which was more than odd for me. They believe that the changes made will not play this role that they would like, that they will not be useful. In this situation, what can we support in this case? Furthermore, the Association of Municipalities is very categorical in its opinion, expressing dissent in particular with the first part, which is understandable. By imposing additional expenditure obligations on the mayor of the municipality without providing him with implementation of the revenue side, we can bring him into an unexpected dialogue with the mayors of municipalities. By imposing the obligation of the municipal councils to adopt such a budget, broken down by these feathers, in turn, we restrict them. We impose on them an obligation that is contrary to their right to form the municipal budget, to allocate it and, if necessary, to correct it. Regardless of what has been said so far, the bill is worth supporting. Perhaps it is worth, as my colleagues before me said, thinking about changes in texts, but changes that will not be confrontational in nature. And why not consider a longer period of consideration of the Bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u15	Thank you, Mr. Christov. For a line, Mr. Slavcho Atanasov has the word. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council! [[Radio and laughter in the hall.]] Dear Mr. Hristov, believe me, I agree with everything you just said. You will ask me now: "Why are you taking a reply?" I take a reply because in your speech you only didn't pay attention to what I just said: the three key cities in Bulgaria. You just mentioned them in your statement. Things are very, very different there than anyone else. But there are 2.5 million people living there. There's usually rational grain in the Bill. My suggestion is that we, the political forces, and representatives gather together and clarify what we really want at second reading. Because, believe me, with these amendments, we are making a very serious change in the overall management of cities and municipalities. For the three major cities in particular, in my opinion, the decision is as follows: in order for this model, which the Council of Ministers is currently proposing to us, we return the old model, the mayor offers regional mayors, the municipal council approves them and chooses them. If the mayor wants to fire him, he can't fire him. He's putting him on the city council, and the city council is taking him off duty. It's a way to influence the mayor. Otherwise, fjords are born. For these three cities a city is created in the city. Then everything will be back to normal with the proper funding of the district mayors. I agree here. The mayor of the big city must have some levers of impact on these district mayors. Now, when we give them the money, 24 separate cities will be born in Sofia. I can guarantee you that. Secondly, even though I did get you a line, but I'll say, for the committees, you're also right. Now we need to change some laws. First, we need to amend the Public Procurement Act and the ZMSMA. See what is written in ZMSA: The Mayor of the municipality determines the commission. As mayor, I've put representatives of my districts into all the public procurement that there was, but of good faith. Now that we have to oblige them to bring a representative of the respective mayors into the committee, then we must change other members in these two laws. Believe me, colleagues, the matter is very, very complex We need to review and refine this law at second reading extremely carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u17	Increase the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u18	No, no, I just got a line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u19	Thank you. For a line? Here you are, Mr. Ali. Second line to Mr. Hristov's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Hristov, I take a line about what you mentioned that you agree that the mayors of the mayors of the town hall will participate in committees at the reception of, say, a certain construction site. You are aware that the mayor of the municipality is issuing an order for an admission committee. In this case, as the spokesperson before me said, we must definitely include the mayor of the locality in this committee. My question is rhetorical: what do we do with a signal or a complaint on one inspection? After the reception, after Act 16 and the mayor of the village signed. What responsibility does he have?! Will he be solidarity with the responsibility of the mayor of the municipality because, ultimately, the mayor of the municipality is responsible for all this? There are many things that need to be refined and seen in this bill. Will they be held responsible as the mayor of the municipality?! The Mayor of the locality to be responsible to the institutions of the State Agency of National Security, the Prosecutor's Office, the State Financial Inspection Agency, the Court of Auditors. I do not agree very much with the text being proposed in this way. We need to change a lot of things in the texts proposed at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Opportunity for a third line. Is anyone gonna take advantage of her? I don't see any requests. Mr. Hristov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, Mr. Ali's line. Look, I don't think either, and neither do you, that it should be mandatory to include mayors of city halls or their representatives in committees. It may be desirable, but at the end of the day, it is the mayor of the municipality or the contracting entity who is responsible for both the committee being formed and the final result. Here I support and continue to believe that since the contracting authority is responsible, it must also have the powers to regulate the whole process from beginning to end, including control. Undoubtedly, it is extremely useful to include in some form, not even as formal, the representatives of the Mayors of City Halls in this case, because they are also very interested. The practice shows that they are the ones who are almost every day on the premises, controlling and able to signal the contracting authority in a timely manner, if they find irregularities and other authorities. I keep thinking, yes, this could be a very good practice, a very good step. I agree with you, but we should not in any way make it a norm under the Public Procurement Act, which creates a prerequisite for new exceptions. Mr. Atanasov's line. Mr. Atanasov, you have started a conversation that is essentially going quite far. It goes to a completely, completely new law on local self-government and local administration. At all levels, in all organizations the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Association of Presidents of Municipal Councils were not only held talks, but you know perfectly well that before that there was a draft bill prepared. Unfortunately, today, things in society are moving very quickly, and in this direction, it is the local self-government. I fear that if we now begin to develop a law on local self-government, it may be that, in the short time for which he is preparing, we will not be able to grasp what is ahead of us, and we will respond to the bill, which does not mean that I reject the creation and adoption of a whole new law on local self-government and local administration. I assure you, there are meaningful bills at the moment, which have been seen in both formations in the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and in the Association of Presidents. I'm going back to your question about the mayors. The election of mayors of areas for large cities actually leads to an uncoordinated policy within the whole city. As far as they already exist, the powers of the mayor of the major municipality are beginning to pale in comparison to the practice and to the reality that we have seen in recent years in our major cities with areas. However, the duties that mayors of major cities have lead in many cases to misunderstanding, opposition, I would not say to conflicts, between the policy that follows the large municipality with the mayor's programme that manages, with the programmes of the mayors of districts. However, putting the question of returning to the moment can put us in another situation where we could rightly be blamed for pointless centralisation. Dear Mr. Chairman, I apologize, I'm considerably exceeding the time, so I'm going to graduate. However, I would like to leave the matter open. The question of a new law on local administration is also open, simply because the realities in local self-government today lead us there. Thank you. Once again, I apologize, dear Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u23	Thank you, Mr. Christov. It was important to complete the reply on the subject of the lines. Mr. Nenkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, undoubtedly in the practice in recent years and what I have had the opportunity as a representative of a large electoral area in Sofia to see is that the relationship between the mayor of the municipality, district mayors and mayors of town halls always has a transfer of sparks when it comes to financing projects and setting the budgetary framework for next year. Of course, the task of each responsible mayor was in a populated area, either of the municipality, of the region, was to do with his efforts the maximum to improve the environment and to fulfill the election promises he made to the people, since they still trusted him and supported him. I dare say that I agree, as strange as it may sound, at 90 percent and more with the negotiators, with their speeches and with their opinion on the Bill, which we are looking at today, because there have been very serious discussions in the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government. And if I have to summarize all the opinions, the truth is that it makes sense to look for some more balanced approach to improve the relations between the mayors of small towns, the mayor of the municipality and the municipal councils. It is certainly clear that every mayor, whether in the least populated place, has the task of fulfilling his pre-election promises, as I have just said. This is largely linked to funding which, of course, cannot be secured by it itself and therefore must depend on the large municipality. I therefore believe that the Bill really is a philosophy and as an idea must be supported. One thing is very important: if we have to get to the end and this bill to see the real world and to be promulgated, there must be a consensus between all political parties in any case. That's my understanding. I would like to say that there must be consensus because we are representatives of various political parties representing very few municipalities and settlements. That is precisely why a consensus should be found if we come to the end and adopt the relevant bill. I can't help but note the philosophy in the bill itself is true. Yes, more predictions should be sought for small settlements. This, of course, should not be done at the expense of large municipalities if we oblige them each year in their capital programme to determine the relevant resource for small settlements. For mayors of town halls, of course, there must be a more objective approach based on revenue, which comes from this locality, what is their administrative capacity and capacity, whether, possibly, they will be able to participate in the selection of a public procurement contractor, in control, in reception and transmission activities, when the site is completed in the respective locality. So you have to very, very carefully approach this situation. Personally, I believe, and with colleagues, we share a common opinion that most municipalities and mayorships do not have such administrative experience, do not have such capacity of people and experts who at least participate in the selection of public procurement and control. At the moment, in many cases it is done this way, but really in good faith the mayors of municipalities include them in the selection committees for public procurement, as well as when the sites are handed over to the municipality for use. This question must undoubtedly be refined. In general, my understanding is that there is no way for mayors of mayors to participate in the selection when it comes to public procurement, especially heavy procedures, because they do not have their administrative capacity. In any case, the Bill is tasked with finding a better social balance between the relations of the large municipality and the mayors of mayors. I also met a very different practice. To a large extent, the majority of my colleagues in the province, whom I have spoken to, have found some balanced approach in their municipalities, indeed, each year define the relevant activities and costs that must be carried out in the different settlements. It's good practice and it has to go on. Another question is, of course, that we must decide whether to oblige them to do so every year or rather be voluntary when the municipality can afford to make the relevant costs. There are municipalities with more than 130 small settlements. You understand that there is no way in every settlement every year to have expenditure to be incurred because there is no way the budget can endure. There's no way! The great community will, of course, suffer seriously from this. It is very important that we find some balanced approach in our desire to satisfy small settlements, mayors of town halls, not to harm the large municipality. It is as an administrative unit the holder of a Constitution in which responsibility, obligations and rights to the management of the respective territories are implemented. Colleagues, I would like to conclude by saying that undoubtedly, if the plenary majority, I would even say, not a majority, but if out of all plenary, it finds a common language and consensus, I think that we should go in this direction, but without haste. In our desire to find the right balance not to make more serious problems for large municipalities to implement their budgets. Colleagues, in the first vote on behalf of GERB, we will support the Bill with a great desire and ambition to seek the best possible balance. In making this decision, all possible stakeholders should participate in the Association of Mayors of Mayors and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, because they have a negative opinion and this is understandable, and all interested additional parties with whom we need to find a common approach if we want this law to see the light of day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u25	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Are there any lines? Are we gonna hear any more speeches? There are no requests for other speeches. I'm closing the debate. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs from the couloirs. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration is forthcoming. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 22 February 2019. Please take your seats, voting mode. They voted 105 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 4. The proposal is also adopted at first reading The Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. Mr. Veselinov, please come in for a procedure. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! You have seen for yourself that there is a lot of work on this bill, so I propose that a maximum period be set for the submission of proposals between first and second readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u27	We are voting on the proposal to set a maximum period between the two readings of Mr. Veselinov's proposal. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u28	We continue with the next item of the Work Programme: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE AND TECHNICAL AGREEMENT TO THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA, HUNGARY AND THE REPUBLIC OF AUSTRIA ON THE INTERPRETATION OF THE TRANSPARENT ENFORCEMENT OF FINANCIAL SANCTIONS WITH REGARD TO DISCLOSURES OF THE MOVEMENT RULES. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Here you are, this is the Internal Security and Public Order Committee report. You have the floor, dear Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u29	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Before I introduce you to the Report, I shall make a procedural proposal in relation to art. 49, para. 2 of Mr. Krassimir Tsipov's admissions regulations "Deputy Minister of the Interior."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u30	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. Vote 78 MPs: 76 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Tzipov to the hall. Dear Mr. Nikolov, you wanted the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I am making a procedure based on the Rules of the National Assembly for extending the term of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Energy Act to be extended by another week due to the fact that there are more proposals, there are discussions regarding this bill, and the small RES, in relation to producers, with employers, so I propose that the deadline for the Energy Act be extended by another week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. I put to the vote the proposed proposal of the MP Valentin Nikolov. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please continue with the Commission report, dear Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u33	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members: ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Administrative and Technical Agreement to the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, Hungary and the Republic of Austria on facilitating the cross-border implementation of financial penalties in relation to infringements of road traffic rules At its meeting held on 10 April 2019, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft for ratification of the Administrative and Technical Agreement to the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, Hungary and the Republic of Austria on facilitating the cross-border implementation of financial penalties in relation to violations of road traffic rules No 902/02-7, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 2 April 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Interior. Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov, and Nikolay Danovski, expert at the Directorate of European Union and International Cooperation. Deputy Minister Tsipov presented the bill on behalf of the importers. In his arguments, he noted that the purpose of the Main Agreement, which was ratified by Bulgaria, Hungary and Croatia on 11 October 2012 and is in force for Bulgaria on 17 June 2013, is to ensure the practical implementation of the mutual implementation of the financial penalties for road offences committed in a country other than the country of registration. The Agreement extends the opportunities for cooperation outside the information exchange provided for in Directive 2015/413/EU by providing for the execution of sanctions, which contributes to preventing sanctions for road offences and ensures a swift procedure, containing sufficient safeguards for the protection of drivers' rights. The main advantage of the Agreement is the possibility for the monetary amount received from the implementation of the decision to be collected for the benefit of the executing State. The Administrative and Technical Agreement on the Implementation of the Main Agreement is designed to ensure the technical implementation of the Main Agreement. It provides for a minimum set of personal data which will be subject to the information exchange within the meaning of the Main Agreement. The technical choice of the system and the connection through which the exchange of information is carried out shall be specified. National contact points and communication channels are defined. Provisions for the protection of personal data are included. Under the General Agreement, the implementation of financial penalties will not go through a stage of judicial recognition in the Contracting Party for registration of the motor vehicle, which is why the Agreement was ratified by the National Assembly by law. Due to the fact that the General Agreement has been ratified, the Administrative and Technical Agreement implementing the Basic Agreement should also be ratified by a law of the National Assembly. On the basis of the vote carried out, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee with 10 votes for the Council, without abstention and abstention, proposed that the National Assembly adopt the Draft for ratification of the Administrative and Technical Agreement to the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, Hungary and the Republic of Austria on facilitating the cross-border implementation of financial penalties in connection with violations of road traffic rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u34	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Deputy Minister Tsipov will take an opinion from the importer. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This Administrative and Technical Agreement, which is at your attention, was signed on 5 May 2015 in St. Pölten Austria and aims to ensure the technical implementation of the Basic Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, Hungary and the Republic of Austria on facilitating the cross-border implementation of financial penalties in relation to violations of road traffic rules. This basic agreement was signed on 11 October 2012 and is in force for the Republic of Bulgaria on 17 June 2013. It aims to ensure the possibility of practical implementation and mutual recognition of financial penalties for road offences committed in a country other than the country of registration of the motor vehicle. This agreement aims to establish a higher standard of cooperation in road safety by providing for real sanctions for road offences, and this will contribute to preventing sanctions which, in turn, must improve road safety. The Agreement concerns the following types of road offences: speeding, not using safety belts, not stopping red traffic lights, driving motor vehicles after the use of alcohol or tranquilizers, non-compliance with the requirement to wear safety helmets, use of prohibited lanes for traffic, illegal use of mobile phones or other mobile devices or communication devices during driving. The violation of road traffic rules regulated in this basic agreement is indisputable, easily identifiable, including through technical photography, and therefore there is no need for further procedures to establish and prove them. At the same time, those infringements which have been selected and are subject to this agreement are among the most common causes of road accidents and threaten to a high extent the safety of road users. In this sense, the Agreement must ensure a rapid procedure for sanctioning offenders and strengthening prevention in the field of road safety. The basic agreement of 2012 builds on two acts of European law "Directive 2015/413/EU' to facilitate the cross-border exchange of information on road safety offences and Council Framework Decision 2005/214/JHA of 24 February 2005 on the application of the principle of mutual recognition of financial penalties. The main agreement aims at preventing sanctions from being avoided and ensuring a swift procedure for their implementation. It provides for cross-border implementation of financial penalties, namely by not going through a stage of judicial recognition and proof of these categories of road offences. This, on the one hand, will be a prerequisite for speed and, on the other, given the relatively low amount of sanctions imposed, will create practical conditions for procedural savings, as the judiciary will not be involved. The main advantage of the Agreement is the possibility that the cash amount imposed by the penalty received from the implementation of the decision be collected for the benefit of the executing State, which, given the significant number of violations of road traffic rules committed by drivers of motor vehicles, will increase the collection rate and the amount of revenue in the budget. The agreement also contains sufficient safeguards to protect the rights of drivers. In accordance with the scheduled mechanism, the State in which the traffic offence was committed shall cooperate with the other State of registration of the motor vehicle, to establish the person responsible for the infringement, if it is not known, and to send the necessary information by translation into the relevant language, inviting it to pay the fine imposed or to indicate whether any other driver has managed the vehicle in the course of carrying out the relevant infringement. The driver shall have the right to object to the infringement and to the sanction imposed, and the act establishing the infringement concerned shall be subject to an appeal under the general procedure under the legislation of the Contracting Party issuing it. Upon clarification of these facts and circumstances and entry into force of the administrative act, the latter shall be sent to the State of registration for enforcement. The competent authorities responsible for this agreement by the Bulgarian side are the specialized bodies of the Directorate General The administrative and technical agreement shall determine the set of personal data to be exchanged within the meaning of the basic agreement. The technical selection of a system and a link shall be specified by which the exchange of information defined in the national contact points and the communication channels for receiving the relevant information will take place. In relation to the information exchange, electronic forms for requests are introduced aimed at identifying the driver in the first place; in the second place, the establishment of the address; in the third place, sending and service of the relevant documents; in fourth place, a certificate of cross-border execution of a decision. The personal data collected shall be used only for the purposes of the application of the Agreement and there shall be any guarantee of their legitimate processing. As the implementation of the financial penalties, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly will not go through a stage of judicial recognition in the Contracting Party for registration of the motor vehicle, the General Agreement was ratified by the National Assembly by a law based on art. 85, para. 1, t. 7 of the Constitution. Due to the fact that the General Agreement has been ratified, the Administrative and Technical Agreement on its implementation should also be ratified by the National Assembly. To conclude, I would like to explain to you that this initiative exits from the Republic of Austria, as numerous violations have been identified in the last few years by drivers from the other Contracting Parties to the Agreement. After negotiations were held and this agreement was concluded, it has become so far as to provide for the order provided for in this Administrative and Technical Agreement, for faster processing of the data and for more rapid imposition of the relevant sanctions. The effect of ratification of the Agreement, ladies and gentlemen, will be indisputable. This will increase budget collection. In conclusion, I would like to conclude by concluding that all technical procedures have been carried out and after the ratification of this technical agreement, it will be shown in a clear way that any driver who carries out the relevant infringement will be punished with an adequate penalty, this penalty will be awarded and collected in an extremely rapid, lawful manner, and that is, in fact, so that, with the effective imposition of such sanctions, we can raise, on the one hand, the collection rate and, on the other hand, create conditions to prevent such violations. Thank you for your attention. PRESENT EMIL CHRISTOV: Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister. I'm opening the debate on the bill. Dear Members of Parliament, you have the floor for speeches. Are there any speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I'll read you the draft law before I put it to the vote. Project! LAW on the ratification of the Administrative and Technical Agreement to the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, Hungary and the Republic of Austria on the facilitation of the cross-border implementation of financial penalties relating to infringements of road traffic rules A single member. Ratifying the Administrative and Technical Agreement to the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, Hungary and the Republic of Austria on facilitating the cross-border implementation of financial penalties in connection with violations of road traffic rules, signed on 5 May 2015 in St. Pölten, Austria. Please, voting mode. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The bill was passed in the first vote. You want the floor of procedure, please, dear Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In accordance with art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that we proceed to a second vote on the bill of ratification adopted at first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u37	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We move on to a second vote on the Bill. Dear Members of Parliament, you have the floor for speeches. Come in, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is good that we conclude such contracts with these countries from a point of view that all the road fines and penalties imposed, the states recognise them and seek them, but the question is: what reciprocity will there be in the fines imposed? Because the countries that are listed under this treaty ultimately have almost no cars to pass through Bulgaria. Mostly Bulgarian carriers and Bulgarians as tourists pass through these countries as a destination. That is, the most damage to the collection of sanctions will be the Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian companies. From this point of view, with the experience that most of us may have, passing through different countries over the years and knowing how drivers with numbers from other countries, preferred to fine the relevant institutions in the respective countries, should not do so that it is the Bulgarian drivers, whether they are transport carriers or whether they are on a trip, be preferred to fine the three countries and be donors to fill the budget of these three countries. Otherwise, it is not wrong, in principle, for those who break traffic rules to be sanctioned, to pay the corresponding penalty by the driver concerned, but ultimately, when we vote on such contracts, we must also assess the state interest, assess how the relevant institutions work in the countries concerned. I repeat, let us not make sure that Bulgarian drivers become donors for these three countries to fill their budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u39	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate and we're moving on.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Administrative and Technical Agreement to the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, Hungary and the Republic of Austria on the facilitation of the cross-border implementation of financial penalties relating to infringements of road traffic rules A single member. Ratifying the Administrative and Technical Agreement to the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, Hungary and the Republic of Austria on facilitating the cross-border implementation of financial penalties in connection with violations of road traffic rules, signed on 5 May 2015 in St. Pölten, Austria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. I put two texts to the vote: the name of the Import Act and the content of a member solely by importer. Vote 84 MPs: 82, none, abstention 2. The law has been passed. Moving on to the next point of our work programme: Reporting on the implementation of the Privatization and Post-Accession Control Process in 2017 and on the implementation of the Privatization Process and the follow-up of the Privatization Process Report 1 JANUARY 30 June 2018. It is the opinion of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Mrs. Saveklieva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I request a procedure for admission to the Chamber of Mr. Mikhail Vladov, acting President of the Supervisory Board of the Privatization Agency and Post-Privatization Control. To be applied for the next point on both points 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u43	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 82 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Vladov. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u44	"COMMODITY" to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism on a Report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process in 2017, No 804-00-6) submitted by the Supervisory Board of the Privatization Agency and Post-Privatization Control Agency on 22 June 2018. At its regular meeting on 10 April 2019, the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee examined the Report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process in 2017. The meeting was attended by Mikhail Vladov, acting President and member of the Supervisory Board of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency; and Petya Alexandrova, Executive Director. The report was presented by Petya Alexandrova. In 2017, the proceeds from privatisation activities, post-privatization control and procedural representation totalled 5 million. 289 thousand. lv. During the reporting period, the Agency has incurred a cost of 2 million. $863,000. lv. During the reporting period, the Agency has concluded six privatisation contracts. The cash flows from privatisation sales amounted to a total of 2 million. 467 thousand. lv. They are prepared and offered for sale 22 sites representing private state property and parts of companies. Post-privatization control has been carried out in respect of 71 privatisation contracts. Payments under 22 privatisation contracts were accepted and 18 contracts were carried out on-the-spot checks. One contract shall be subject to a penalty for non-compliance. The payments made from post-privatization and procedural representation activities amounted to 2 million. 533 thousand. lv. During the reporting period by the legal advisors and lawyers of the Agency, all necessary and possible procedural actions have been implemented. The total number of pending cases in which the Privatisation and Post-Privatization Control Agency is party in 2017 is 147, including the claims to which the Agency is the defendant. After the presentation of the report, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Process in 2017 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 90, para. 11 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and in relation to art. 22d, para. 1, t. 2 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the Reporter for the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process in 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u45	Please continue with the opinion for the next period.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u46	"COMMODITY" to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism on a Report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process for the period 1 January, 30 June 2018, No 804-0011, submitted by the Supervisory Board of the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control on 12 October 2018. At its regular meeting held on 10 April 2019, the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee examined the Report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process for the period 1 January 30 June 2018. The meeting was attended by Mikhail Vladov, acting President and member of the Supervisory Board of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency; and Petya Alexandrova, Executive Director. The report was presented by Petya Alexandrova. In the first six months of 2018, the proceeds from privatisation activities, post-privatization control and procedural representation totalled 4 million. 282 thousand. BGN 437. During the reporting period, the Agency has incurred an expenditure of 1 million. 179,000. BGN 936. The Agency has proposed for sale 17 sites representing private state property and parts of commercial companies. 11 privatization contracts have been signed. As of 30 June 2018, the Agency worked on a resource from: - 12 majority shares/units; - 58 minority packages of shares/units; - 13 units owned by commercial companies with more than 50 percent state participation in capital; - 4 minority packages of shares/units owned by companies with more than 50 percent State participation in capital in other companies; - 150 sites representing private government property with the rights of management of district managers and heads of state offices. Post-privatization control has been carried out in respect of 37 privatisation contracts. 17 privatisation contracts were accepted and three on-the-spot checks were carried out. During the reporting period by the legal advisors and lawyers of the Agency, all necessary and possible procedural actions have been implemented. The total number of pending cases in which the Privatisation and Post-Privatization Control Agency is a party on 30 June 2018 shall be 153, including the claims to which the Agency is the defendant. After the presentation of the report, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control process for the period 1 January " 30 June 2018" The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 90, para. 11 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and in relation to art. 22d, para. 1, t. 2 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the Reporter for the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process for the period 1 January
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u47	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveclieva. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I am opening the debate. Dear Mr. Vladov, will you take an attitude? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u48	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In point 1, which concerns the Privatization Process Report for 2017 I will inform you that after the period in 2017 the APC has received and accounted for according to art. 8 of the Privatization Act and post-privatization control total proceeds from privatisation and post-privatization control activities and procedural representation amount of 5 million. 289 thousand. lv. On the basis of art. 9 of the SSK, the costs of providing the privatisation and post-privatization control activities are carried out through the APC budget. During the reporting period, the Privatisation and Post-Privatization Control Agency incurred expenditure on its 2017 budget of 2 million. $863,000. lv. The Privatization Agency and post-privatization control over the period has prepared and offered for sale through a public tender with a total of 22 sites representing private state property, parts and parts of companies. The 40th central privatisation tender was also held, where packages and shares of the capital of 11 companies were offered for sale. During the reporting period, the Agency concluded six privatisation contracts. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of 467 thousand. lv. The APC has made efforts to attract investors and promote the proposed privatisation sites. Marketing events were carried out in respect of 33 sites that were offered for sale during the reporting period. The main adverse factors which led to a slowdown in the pace of privatisation in 2017 are the following: the change in the legal framework, according to which the award of legal analyses, privatisation assessments and information memorandums should be carried out in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria. The introduction of a new approach to the award of the service required the preparation of new internal documents and timetables for their implementation, which in turn led to delays in pre-privatization and privatisation processes. Following the announcement of the Draft Law on the amendment of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control of 10 May 2017, the Agency suspended work on the projects for sale of packages, shares and shares owned by the State and parts of commercial companies with majority State participation. The tender procedures have already been studied, although this bill was not presented for discussion in the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Since mid-2017, this has virtually stopped the traditional process for shares, shares and compartments. As regards post-privatization control in the implementation of the main objectives, the following activity was carried out: a total of 104 reports on 71 privatisation contracts were analysed and finalised with findings; 1 privatisation contract was charged a penalty for fulfilling obligations; 22 privatisation contracts were accepted; 18 contracts were carried out on-the-spot checks; 12 certificates were carried out; 12 certificates were carried out on-the-spot checks were carried out; and 12 certificates were issued. The legal advisors of the Department of Privatization and Post-Privatization Control have prepared and submitted to private judicial contractors, civil courts or other body 416 requests in relation to the course of the enforcement proceedings; 99 responses to claims, written defences, complaints and responses to complaints and other opinions in lawsuits. In 2017, 11 new claims were formed. During the reporting period of major importance was the work in case No 158 of 2016 of the Supreme Administrative Court, formed on a request by "K.G. Maritaim Shiping" JSC.. the buyer of the contract for privatisation sale of Paramation of the Bulgarian Maritime Fleet............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 307 of the Commercial Law, which provides for commercial intolerance. From the post-privatization and procedural representation activities, the received payments amount to 2 million. 533 thousand. lv. As of 31 December 2017, the resources of privatisation sites under which preparatory or actual privatisation procedures are carried out consist of 12 majority packages, shares and shares. Of these, 4 pieces have flown into the state consolidation company. 1 issue in the "Terem-Holding" EAD; 4 pieces of minority shares and shares owned by commercial companies with more than 50 percent state participation in capital in other commercial companies; 58 minority shares, shares; 15 units owned by commercial companies with more than 50 percent state participation in capital; 148 units representing private state property properties and properties represented in management rights of the heads of state institutions for which there are proposals for privatisation. As of 31 December 2017, the total number of contracts subject to control in respect of various social commitments and other obligations, including investments, amounted to 84 pieces. The total number of pending cases as at 31 December 2017 to which the Privatisation and Post-Privatization Control Agency is a party is 147 This is the 2017 Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u49	Please continue with the 2018 speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I will also present to you the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control for the first six months of 2018. For the period received receipts and accounting are reflected in accordance with art. 8 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control by Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Activities, and the procedural representation of 4 million total. 282 thousand. BGN 437. On the basis of art. 9 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act, the costs of providing the privatisation and post-privatization control activities are carried out through the budget of the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control. During the reporting period, the Privatisation and Post-Privatization Control Agency incurred expenditure on its budget for 2018 amounting to 1 million. 179,000. BGN 936. On the part of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency, 17 sites representing private state property and parts of commercial companies were proposed for the reporting period. 20 public auctions with apparent bidding were announced and 11 of them were successful. Within the period were concluded 11 contracts for privatisation sale for 10 properties state property from the districts of Varna, Kardzhali, Pazardzhik, Sliven, contract for sale of a separate part of the Transport diagnostic-consultative center. The difference between 17 sites and 20 public tenders is justified by the fact that not all were sold in the first procedure and therefore a second procedure was carried out in accordance with the Law and the price was reduced between the first and the second tender. Marketing by region was conducted according to the location of the sites offered for sale. Marketing events have been carried out in respect of 15 sites for which tenders have been announced during the reporting period. In the first six months of 2018, the Agency for Privatization and Post-Privatization Control did not award legal analyses, privatization assessments and information memorandums for new sites subject to privatisation. The implementation of this procedure has been suspended until the adoption of a legislative act on the award of activities relating to the preparation of privatisation and post-privatization controls, including procedural representation. Such a regulation was adopted by the Council of Ministers with Decree No 121 of 29 June 2018, published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 56 of 6 July 2018 As of 30 June 2018, the privatisation resources under which preparatory or actual privatisation activities have been carried out consist of: 12 majority packages, shares or shares; 4 minority packages of shares or shares owned by commercial companies with over 50 per cent State participation in capital in other commercial companies; 58 minority packages, shares or shares; 13 units owned by commercial companies with over 50 per cent State participation in capital; 150 units representing private property with granted management rights to regional managers and managers of state institutions that have a privatisation proposal. The following activity was carried out in order to meet the main objectives of post-privatization control: 42 reports on 37 privatisation contracts were analysed and finalised with findings; 17 privatisation contracts were accepted; 3 contracts were carried out on-the-spot checks; documentary checks were carried out and certificates were issued to fulfil no obligations. The total number of contracts subject to control in respect of different social commitments and other obligations, including investment obligations, shall be 83 pieces during the reporting period. As of 30 June 2018, the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency was a 101 enforcement officer, with the claims in these executive cases being for principals, minority interest, interest on lates and expenses in executive sheets and executive cases. The necessary legal and factual actions have been carried out in those cases. There are 111 applications prepared and submitted to private judicial contractors, state contractors or other bodies concerning the course of the enforcement proceedings, applications for public sale at the request of the Privatization Agency and after-privatization control in 30 cases. 28 responses to claims, written defences, complaints and responses to complaints and other opinions in cases are prepared and provided. Applications, opinions and letters have been prepared to the Court of Arbitration at the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, 8 pieces, all related to the arbitration proceedings against the Agency, registered by the buyer under the contract of traditional sale of 70% of the capital of the Bulgarian Maritime Fleet. The total number of pending cases in which the Privatisation and Post-Privatization Control Agency is a party shall be 153 on 30 June 2018, including all pending cases, including claims on which the Privatisation and Post-Privatization Control Agency is a defendant. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Vladov. Dear Members of Parliament, you have the floor for speeches. Are there any speeches? I won't. I am closing the debate and we will move on to the vote. I will put to a consistent vote the two draft decisions as presented to us by the Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. The first Project for a Decision is on the Review for the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process in 2017. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I will now put to the vote the second project presented to us on the Review for the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u52	Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The proposal and decision have been adopted. We continue our work with the next item on the agenda: REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S ACTION TO PROTECT DISCRIMINATION FOR 2018 Importer: Commission for Protection against Discrimination on 29 March 2019 Here you are, Mr. Velchev, to present the report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u53	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, before presenting the Report, please provide a procedure for admission under art. 42, para. 2 of the Vice-President of the Commission Associate Professor Dr. Hüseyinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u54	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. Honourable Members of Parliament, we are voting for tolerance in the House of the Vice-President of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. I ask the Quaestors to invite Mr. Hüseyinov into the hall. We will now hear the Commission's report. "Please come in, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u55	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a report on the Commission's action on protection against discrimination for 2018, No 920-00-01 submitted by the Commission for protection against discrimination on 29 March 2019. At a regular meeting held on 10 April 2019, the Commission on Religions and Human Rights discussed a Report on the Commission's activities against discrimination for 2018, No 920-00-01, submitted by the Commission on 29 March 2019. The meeting was attended by associate associate professor Dr. Ana Dzhumalieva, Chairman of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination (CSD) and Associate Professor Dr. Baki Huseinov, Vice-President of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. The report on the activity of the Commission 2018 submitted on the basis of art. 40, para. 5 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination was presented by the President "Assoc. Prof. Dr. Anna Dzhumalieva." It reflects the results achieved by the Commission as a body on equality, building and implementing national and international policies in the field of combating and preventing discrimination. The report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination for 2018 traditionally focuses on the work of the jurors, takes into account the activities of the specialized and general administration and identifies some of the most important objectives and tasks. Of the complaints received in 2018 in the Commission for Protection against Discrimination and Processed 751 complaints, alerts and inquiries, as follows: complaints The established decisions for 2018 mark their record over the years. They are 511, while for 2017 there are 450. Ms. Dzhumalieva stressed that the self-examinations are also without an analogue in the nearly 14-year history of the institution, compared to 2017, when there were only 2 in 2018 it was 386. The nine most common protected characters in the files for 2018 are:........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ A significant part of the Commission's action to protect against discrimination is the protection against discrimination in the exercise of the right to work. Ms. Dzhumalieva pointed out that in 2018, complaints to the Commission have alleged a discriminatory nature of the regulatory and sub-normative arrangements concerning disadvantaged treatment to adopters and their children over 5 years of age, acceptance of first-graders, the provision of assistant services to disabled people, health insurance, employment rights to disabled persons and others. During the past year 677 were organised open receptions by the regional representatives of the Commission for Protection against Dicrumination. There has been an increase in the number of citizens who visited the Commission's offices and host offices from 3472 in 2016 to 4236 in 2018. It was stressed that regional representatives are extremely important for the Commission's activities by being the mediators of the institution in small towns in the country. A number of events and initiatives of the Commission to protect against discrimination in 2018 have been linked to prevention in the fight against discrimination, with international cooperation and coordinated national policy having a significant share in the Commission's activities. Ms. Dzhumalieva pointed out that a large part of the Commission's self-esteems are related to the national campaign of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination "Accessive Bulgaria" aimed at protecting the rights of people with disabilities. The Commission continues to actively participate as an employer in the "Career Start" and "CROS-BI" programmes that employ interns and permanently unemployed persons. A serious share of the Commission's activities for protection against discrimination is the work of a number of bodies of international organisations with similar competences or areas of activity. As a significant event in the past year, the participation of the Commission in a training visit to the United States at the invitation of the US State Department was noted as a result of which were shared a number of good practices and initiatives applied at federal, state and local level. As a member of the European Network of Equality Bodies, the Commission for Protection against Discrimination has been visited by Mr Jean-Paul Lenner, President of the European Commission against racism and intolerance in the Council of Europe. Along with the high assessment, it was stressed that the Bulgarian Commission for Protection against Discrimination has achieved serious development and must serve as a model of bodies with quasi-judicial functions in Europe. Following the vote, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, with 8 votes....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission proposes and Project! DECISION on a 2018 report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 40, para. 5 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination HAS DECIDED Adopts the Commission's Action Report on Protection against Discrimination for 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u56	Thank you. Do you want the floor, Professor Hüseyin? You will not take this right. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Siddy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u57	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! There are no concrete results of the Commission in relation to the public-funded seminars and meetings with the non-governmental sector. I specifically refer to a seminar at which the Commission's management took pictures of eating and drinking in the company of Acho Gypsy of Haskovo, the one who, after eating heavily at the state table, allowed himself to file a complaint to the Commission for protection against discrimination against Deputy Prime Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on the occasion of his concept of dealing with the gypsy. I am interested in what is happening to this case, how far has the Commission come, is there a conflict of interest, because we have referred to the Commission on this particular issue? I am also interested in what happens to most of the cases in the Commission, then how many of these decisions have fallen from the court? I couldn't find this data in the report, so I will personally vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u58	Thank you. Are there any lines? There are no lines. Are there any other speeches, honourable Members, on the Commission's report? There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. Here you are, you have the floor, Professor Hüseyin.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Siddy, regarding the seminar held in Plovdiv with non-governmental organizations, I would like to point out that, in addition to its judicial functions, the Commission also performs preventive activities. One of the recommendations of the Council of Europe is to make different seminars with state institutions, ministries, NGOs, so that it can catch more discriminatory elements in Bulgaria. So we have a series of seminars where we train all non-governmental organizations with regard to the Law on Protection against Discrimination so that we can still cover the territory of the whole of Bulgaria. At the seminar we have held a meeting with non-governmental organizations, the gentleman wanted to take a picture with the management and not only he. Whoever wants to take a picture with management can do it, of course, we're not hiding from it. With regard to the files for which you ask what we have done, there have been proceedings in the Commission for protection against discrimination and there will be a meeting within due time. Evidence is being collected from the defendants because the proceedings with us are still as in the judicial system. The Parties shall be informed of this and we shall have a meeting soon. As regards the extent to which the Commission's decisions fall, I would like to make it very clear that in 2018 only 9% of 510 decisions fell from the court, while in 2017 450 decisions, 7.3% fell from the court. It is absolutely not true that the Commission's decisions are falling. In addition, you all know that one who is not satisfied with our decision can turn to administrative courts. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u60	I thank the Vice-President of the Commission for protection against discrimination. I put to the vote the decision read by Mr. Krasimir Velchev, which adopted the Report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination for 2018. Vote 80 MPs: 70 against 5, abstention 5. The proposal and the report have been accepted. Coming up next, honourable Members of the House. We will continue our work at 12:00 with a hearing of the Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the Development of the Process for liberalization of the electricity market. Importers: Delyan Dobrev and Valentin Nikolov. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u61	Please invite the Quaestors to the House to continue our work with: HEARING OF THE COMMISSION'S PRESENT FOR ENERGY AND WATER REGULLATION OF BOARD 113 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON DEVELOPMENT OF THE LIBERALISATION PROCEDURE ON THE ELECTRIC ENERGY MARKET. I remind you that the hearing begins with the introduction of the proposal for a hearing making a statement of the questions within five minutes. Welcome to the procedure, Mr. Nikolov, as one of the importers of the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose that the following persons should be admitted to the Chamber: Ivan Ivanov, Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, Evgenia Haritonova, Member Penka Trendafilova, Member Vlado Vladimirov, Member, and Georgi Zlatev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u63	Thank you. A proposal for admission was made in the House of Commissioners. Please vote on their hall pass. Vote 66 MPs: for 66, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please invite the persons admitted to the Chamber. Mr. Nikolov, please come in and do the show.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members, Commissioners and Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission! Let's start from there, because the topic for which we have invited you to be heard is a development of the process of liberalization of the electricity market and that I would like to motivate myself for what provokes me and, unfortunately, my former colleague Delyan Dobrev, to make this request for a hearing. The liberalization of the electricity market has generally started, if memory serves, in Chile in the 1970s. Professor Freedman, when listening to different opinions and views of the large mining industry in Chile, respectively, to the producers of electricity, which was actually supplied through state-owned companies, at one point arose the question whether this price, which is provided by these energy companies with bloated states, did not damage precisely these mining companies and thus not be competitive. It was this issue that had to be resolved in some way, and then the model of liberalisation of the energy market arose, by separating the carrier accordingly, by separating electricity producers and, in fact, after it was tested and showing that it was possible to search and achieve a market price, this model is already being transferred to the United States and then to Europe. Indeed, at the end of the day in Bulgaria, which had a planned holding before the 1990s, where everything was state-owned, was set a price for the state at which it was delivered to absolutely all consumers. After all, we took the path of liberalisation because this is the right model. This liberalisation is based on the Third Liberalisation Package that has been adopted, and together with the two directives the gas and electricity, we have started liberalising both our gas and our electricity market. This is due to the fact that it allows different regional markets to unite and not only regional markets. We already know that Europe is looking for options for a common European market. It must be based on the basis that this price that is achieved must be market, it must be fair price, and we must know that this is not the high or low price. I already believe that we have achieved it with the various changes to the Energy Act to the extent that we have already reached the mid-European liberal model of a market, even more. We actually made a model so that such long-term contracts could be sold on the free market and subsequently compensated. This model, I would say, is already being looked at by different other countries - Central European, and countries close to us - and I believe that this is the right model for achieving this fair price. With the latest amendment to the Energy Act, which was proposed by us by the GERB parliamentary group, we are actually developing the model of liberalisation and deepening it. More and more participants are going to this market. By forcing everyone to go to the Bulgarian independent electricity exchange, we can already be sure that the price achieved for the various products on this market is already market. Based on the agreements with the European Commission, we have an obligation for our state-owned companies, with certain quantities to ensure liquidity in the market. The fact is that, with the amendment of the Energy Act, we have already obliged all producers to provide the energy produced on this market. Thus we made it liquid enough so that we know that the market is really available at the market price. Of course, there is still a lot of work to be done, because all small consumers, households, sooner or later, have to come out of the market and, as in many European countries, these users, by clicking on the screen, be able to choose an electricity supplier, easily change that supplier, be able to monitor their profile accordingly and possibly achieve efficiency and energy efficiency. We will thus achieve two goals: one objective, a fair price. As I said before, there will be no doubt that it is fair, whether it is high or low. On the other hand, we will be able, by putting our own efforts, to achieve energy efficiency in our homes when we can include an electrical appliance, whether we can turn it on when the price is lower, and so on and so forth. This will also lead to the saving of many carbon emissions, which are already the number one theme in the world, will lead to less dependence on suppliers of external energy carriers and the saving of many national products. I am done with the fact that I would be happy to have this discussion become a meaningful discussion and benefit from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u65	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. This was an importer's opinion. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the hearing parties shall make a statement within ten minutes. Mr. Ivanov, come in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! When four years ago, on 2 April 2015, you in the National Assembly chose the composition of the current Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, partially replaced one year ago, the Commission was tasked with making a significant contribution to solving three main and important tasks for the Bulgarian energy sector, and these were: financial stabilisation of the industry, diversification of the energy sources supplied in Bulgaria, and thirdly further liberalisation of the energy market. The financial stabilisation was necessary because at the end of 2014, part of the energy companies, including the largest "National Electricity Company," were in collapse, were in fact bankrupt. The Commission has made its contribution and I can say that the financial results in the industry have been significantly improved. Regarding diversification, it is more than clear that if the supply of energy carriers to the country is diversified, competition will generate better quality and lower prices for these energy carriers. You today, for which I thank you, are asking the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to inform you on the third pillar of tasks which the Commission has decided in these four years, and this is the further liberalisation of the electricity market in our country. You will allow me to say in just a few words that, in legal terms, liberalisation was regulated as early as 2007, with a change in the Energy Act, but in fact it began to expand in 2013, when again, through the Energy Act, consumers of high and medium voltage electricity were obliged to enter the free market. This free trade was initially carried out through direct agreements, subsequently through platforms of the three energy companies of the Bulgarian Energy Holding, namely Following the intervention of the Energy Commission and concluded an agreement with it, the quotas with which these companies will participate in the future energy exchange were fixed. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in mid-2015 changed trading rules in order to establish the legal basis for establishing an independent energy exchange and its functioning. This happened on 19 January 2016. Between 2016 and 2018, the Exchange, which began to operate on the "Day forward" segment, continued with the segment of bilateral contracts, with a platform for bilateral contracts and the platform for intra-day trade. At the end of 2018, the quantities traded on the Exchange were 2.5 larger than those traded in 2016. At the end of 2018, they were about 2.5 teravats of electricity and were increased at the end of 2018 to 6 teravats of electricity. At the same time, it was necessary to proceed to further market liberalisation. At that time, this is actually somewhere in January of this year, and 62% of the electricity produced was traded on the free market. Of these 62% 19% was energy that continued as export energy and the remaining 43% were traded for the internal market. 38% remained the regulated electricity market in Bulgaria. The further liberalisation measures, which were implemented thanks to the change in the Law in May last year, included three main activities. First of all, mandatory through the Exchange had to come out and sell electricity all power generators with installed power four and over four megawatts. Secondly, the electricity distribution companies, which until then bought the energy at a price specifically set by the Commission and these quantities were often subject to discussion about whether they were actually used for technological costs, were obliged to buy their energy from the Bulgarian independent energy exchange. And the third measure was centralising the trade in electricity, wholesale trade, only on the platforms of the Bulgarian independent energy exchange. What is to come I am extremely pleased that at first reading it has already gone through the National Assembly as measures for further liberalisation of the market, which should happen in this year 2019. The following is drawn up in the following. First of all, the Exchange comes out all manufacturers with installed power from one to four megawatts. This makes a total of about 1.5 terawat hours of electricity, which are additionally offered on the Exchange. Secondly, apart from the Exchange, a commitment was made to create sufficiently different electricity packages, which include different options, either electricity in a peak zone, energy offpic or base energy, energy to be within the five working days, energy to be for the two weekends. This gives some predictability to customers who buy from the Exchange, as well as traders of the Bulgarian Independent Energy Exchange. The second action to be taken in order to liberalise the market is the requirement that any new cogeneration power should be built only on condition that an auction takes place and that it is subject to non-discriminatory and clear rules. This is in line with the guidelines for the development of energy in the European Union, which require that from 1 January 2017 there be any building of new cogeneration power when there is State aid, i.e. when they are given preferences most often in the price. Gradually, we come to a situation where some consumers of electricity currently on a regulated market obviously need to enter the free market. Perhaps in the near future, in a year's time, non-viable consumers are the small business, public organizations, institutes, and institutions will also come out on the free market, but we want to see what the effect of the supply of more electricity from producers between one and four megawatts of installed power is. As problems that should be addressed at present and in the future, I would like to point out that the most important problems on the free market in electricity, which is the guarantee of liberalisation, are two. First, this is the low liquidity of the Bulgarian independent energy exchange. The quantities traded on our exchange are three times less than those on the Hungarian Exchange, four times less than those traded on the Romanian Exchange, and about eight times less than those traded on the Greek Energy Exchange. Low liquidity in turn creates the second major problem, and it is a major volatility, major changes in electricity prices on the free market, because when the traded quantities of electricity are low, a separate large producer, such as BEH companies or a large trader, which we already have on the Bulgarian independent energy exchange, can dramatically change the price of electricity. Obviously, high volatility can be overcome with short-term and long-term measures. In order to fit in within the 10 minutes, I just want to say that in the end, the great goal that needs to be achieved and this will enable a truly stable energy market in the country is to connect Bulgaria's electricity market with neighbouring countries. I am pleased that in addition to the participation of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, but also with the participation of the Bulgarian Electricity System Operator and, of course, the Bulgarian Independent Energy Exchange is progressing to a different extent the negotiations for establishing a related market with Romania are related to the Connectivity of the markets in a firm way will reduce the large deviations in the price of electricity on the Bulgarian market. However, in order to achieve connectivity, we must, of course, by changing the Law, which I hope will be voted on by you and at second reading, remove access and transmission costs that are currently being collected by the energy that is intended for export, because we are one of the last countries not to say the last in Europe that collects such fees. This hinders the connectivity of the markets because it leads to a difference that, expressed in euros, is about 5 euros and is paid for every megawatt hour of electricity exported from the country. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to assure you that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission will make every effort to continue the process of liberalising the electricity market in the country and to finish in the foreseeable future with a view to becoming part of the united European electricity market at first, and then a united European market. However, human morality obliges me, together with this, to express my sincere gratitude to a man who, for four years, has stood by me and to the members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and has supported our every action aimed at both liberalisation and diversification of supply and financial stabilisation of the energy sector. This, you know, is Mr. Delyan Dobrev. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by GERB]] whose competence, integrity and courage impressed me greatly and impressed me. I explicitly point out: courage, because in these four years, we, by promoting joint action towards market liberalisation, have undoubtedly broken some plans and have affected certain groups of producers financially, whether it be traders or business. But we acted and acted in the public interest, seeking this fragile but absolutely necessary balance in Bulgarian society. Thank you for your attention. I'm waiting for your questions. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. We are addressing specific issues. We start with a question from GERB's parliamentary group. Mr. Nikolov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Ivanov, honourable commissioners! First of all, thank you for the warm words for colleague Delyan Dobrev, who we will miss very much. He left a pretty serious lead in energy, and not only, but let's get to the point. You know that with the changes in the Energy Act, which I and my colleague Dobrev introduced, it is still open, we have extended the deadline today, which are actually the small renewable sources between one and four megawatts, respectively the highly efficient combined productions also between one and four megawatts, go to a free market, and they have to sign compensation contracts with the Energy Security Fund. Of course, NEK has been selling them on a regulated market so far. According to experts, it's about a million and five hundred thousand megawatts of electricity per year. This raises questions: how will you replace them; will this affect the price of the regulated market and do you expect it to affect the price of the free market? That is, to share your vision in relation to both prices, one is not a curve, of course, one is fixed, but the other is a curve about this action, abstracting from external impacts, for example in dry weather, which will not fill the dams and so on. We're talking about purely mechanical, if this law comes into force, and all the other conditional parameters we put them as permanent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u69	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Mr. Ivanov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There is no doubt that free market prices have an impact on the prices of the regulated market, because if there is a very strong discrepancy, this naturally creates a certain tension. Moreover, at the end of last year, when prices were extremely high on the free market, some of the electricity consumers, first of all, which had come out on the free market, returned to the regulated market, which is allowed to be done legally. The free market prices are currently determined by several factors. First of all, this is the market situation within the country, which is dynamically changing depending on the season: in winter significantly larger, in April and May extremely low, often up to 2,800 megawatts. In this situation, it cannot be said that free market prices are constant throughout the year. The second factor that has a strong impact, and especially has been affecting lately, is carbon dioxide emissions prices. The European Union's policy on decarbonisation of the economy, respectively, of energy, has imposed a mechanism of the European Emissions Trading Platform, which feels a certain shortage of emission offered, which increased their value from around 8 euros per tonne of emissions a year ago to around 25 euros. Although in today's day, what I saw an hour before I came to the National Assembly, the price of emissions reached 26 euros per tonne. These emissions must, in a certain way, be included as costs of thermoelectric plants, because they actually discharge very large emissions, especially our coal plants. Therefore, the free market price increased significantly. Regarding its impact on the price of the regulated market, I would like to point out that there is a model on it that works with the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, where people pay for the energy service, including electricity, this is the energy component, the demand rates.. these are access and transport, distribution and delivery, and an additional obligation to society. By increasing the price of electricity, i.e. the energy component, the premiums given to electricity producers are reduced until recently at preferential prices and now with a premium. This enables a certain way to seek such an appropriate balance in increasing the price of the energy component and reducing the price of the additional obligation to society in order to protect public interest and not to allow a substantial increase in the price that people will pay for the energy service supplied to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u71	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. There will be no question from the BSP parliamentary group obviously. We are continuing with a question from the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs. Here you go, Mr. Siddy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u72	Dear colleagues, Mr. Ivanov! By 2019, the built up to 30 kilo photovoltaic parks for their own use concluded contracts for the sale of the electricity produced and not spent by them with the electricity distribution companies at preferential prices, according to my data about 210 BGN. on kilowatt. At the beginning of 2019 the KEWRC decided to reduce the payment rate to natural and legal persons who entered into contracts with distribution companies in this order by reducing the price from 210 to 80 BGN. on kilowatt. Not only does the price decrease, but this decision introduces retro-refunds paid by distribution companies to these producers. I have the following questions to you on this occasion: what has imposed this measure; what is the relative share of these producers in the total mix; why is the price reduced on the move after these people have made their estimates at a price of 210 BGN. and will the same arsin be applied to all RES generators? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u73	Thank you. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Siddy, the manufacturers you are talking about are known as the producers of paragraph 18. They're about 290 manufacturers, and what you're actually asking, there's an essential background. These producers have used grants under the Operational Programme "Rural Development" and after the construction of their RES parks, these are above all solar parks, they have requested and then, at the moment you talk about, they have received a preferential price. There was an immediate reaction from the European Commission, which has stated that it is unacceptable for a electricity producer to benefit from preferences in two different fields of electricity in the case of a preferential price after having received grant support under the Operational Programme. Moreover, Bulgaria in the summer of 2015 was warned about the initiation of a criminal procedure, as a defendant from the Bulgarian country was not the Ministry of Energy, but the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. For this reason, the Commission, which does not come up with any act, is not a decision, nor a price, but the National Assembly with a change in the Law on Renewable Energy in § 18, records the conditions under which the price of these producers is formed. The Commission has no solution and I do not know why this is speculated. We simply implement the Law and this price is in accordance with the Law. If these conditions are to be changed, it is in the hands of the National Assembly if it decides to change the price. However, I would like to warn you that, on this occasion, a change of § 18 and the Energy Commission has been requested several times, and then the plenary has rejected such an opportunity. Then, with the signatures of 48 MPs, the Constitutional Court was brought to the attention of the Constitutional Court concerning § 18. The Constitutional Court made it clear that there was no breach of the Constitution and left § 18. As far as the energy produced by these producers is concerned, no, the energy is not great, and you probably meant that as a subtext. The energy is not great, the number I have told you, but it is a principle of opinion that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests presents each time. It is absolutely clear that this status cannot be changed because Bulgaria will again find itself in violation of European legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u75	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. There will be no question from the DPS parliamentary group. There is no question from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodolists. We continue with a question from GERB. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u76	Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners! My question is dictated by the fact that not recently, but a few months ago, namely December, January, we witnessed in the market in the next day, that the price of electricity on the Bulgarian Energy Exchange rose significantly compared to the levels of the previous months. I remember then that the Commission immediately referred to itself in order to establish whether it had uncontrolled practices, namely an impact on this price. Then, after seizing itself, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission had to find out what really led to the increase in these prices for the market. In fact, the more important question is what could be done as preventive measures in the winter months, not now, but in a few months we will come back to this period so that the price does not go to these levels, of which, of course, the largest consumers of electricity suffer, and naturally without them there will be no production. My question is: what did this inspection that you were able to do, and what are the conclusions from it in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u77	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Come in for an answer, dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The issue is really extremely important because in one of the days of January the free market price in the "Day forward" segment reached BGN 207 per base load. at a megawatt hour.. an extremely high price. This, of course, gives its extremely negative impact on all large customers, consumers of electricity, which are most often large business users, because it violates the cost of their production, respectively they lose competitiveness. Gradually since the beginning of February, things have changed. Why did this happen? Firstly, we had ruled with the amendments to the Law that all electricity producers four and over four megawatts of installed power should go out on the free market, but we had set a six-month transitional period above all for renewable energy producers with a view to solving their problems with the contracts they have with the relevant banks. They took advantage of this period and in fact this additional amount, which was to be taken directly to the stock exchange, it is about 1.5 terawatt hours of electricity, appeared there at the beginning of this year. Secondly, it should be noted that several large traders who participate in more than 10 exchanges in this part of Europe.. Central and Eastern Europe, and have excellent software mechanisms and specialists in this regard, monitor the exchanges every minute and do business with buying certain quantities from a particular exchange where the price there is low and selling it where it is high. Due to the low liquidity on the Bulgarian exchange such large quantities purchased from our exchange immediately led to an increase in the price. Third, of course, this is also the season itself, because in December and January the consumption in the country is the highest, related to Christian holidays at the end of the year and the beginning of January, with holidays of people who are often at home. High consumption requires higher quantities on the stock exchange. What are we doing? Don't let this thing happen again? As I have already said, first, in a series of talks we had with the three energy companies of BEH, commitments were made for maximum supply to all possible quantities of electricity to the Bulgarian independent energy exchange as for the TPP Maritsa East 2, of course, provided that the price of the exchange is above the cost of energy produced by TPP Maritsa East 2, because in contrary cases there will be a clear violation of the Law by the management of TPP 2. Secondly, in order to reduce the pressure on the generation of the "Day forward', NEK undertook to provide water energy and energy produced by NEK's hydropowers, mainly for high energy within "Day forward', to suppress the price of the energy demand. And, of course, thirdly, the stock exchange itself has committed itself to offering traders and customers a package of different options, which I have already talked about, in a way that they can buy energy within a week, month, quarter, instead of trying to buy energy from the market. The next thing that will happen with the entry into force of the changes, which I hope will be voted by the National Assembly within this month, will be the exit of 1.5 teravathours of electricity from producers between 1 and 4 megawatts installed power. I would like to point out this for a reason. We are currently not proposing to the National Assembly to simultaneously include the release of non-bit consumers who are now on a regulated market on the free market, because we want to increase the liquidity of the exchange first and then increase the number of consumers who buy energy from the exchange itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u79	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Second question from the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs. Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u80	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, all the time during the hearing I was impressed that there was talk about the TPP Maritsa 2 and talked about Kozloduy, talked about other sources, but I had the feeling that it was deliberately avoided talking about the electricity from the TPP Maritsa 1 and TPP Maritsa 3 and which is actually the great evilness in the Bulgarian society. We are all aware that these are the two US power plants from which society is obliged to buy electricity from the state at preferential prices. Since the very beginning of the existence of an attack since 2005, this has been an unaltered, permanent topic of ours, on which we have entered into severe conflicts and contradictions with the ruling majorities, with the Presidents of the Commission. For us, this is a cause we will not give up! Today, on 11 April, my questions to you, Mr. Ivanov, are to hear the Bulgarian citizens what is the price for electricity, which is obtained by the two US power plants, without VAT, because very often there was talk of confidentiality at a price and there were periods when it was not reported. Is the price of electricity still kept secret from the two power plants? What is the share of electricity from the power plants "Maritsa East 1" and "Maritsa East 3" in total consumption? My third question, which may be the most important question: is there an estimate anywhere, if we were not obliged to receive the electricity produced by the two power plants at these prices, what would be the price in absolute amount or said lower in percentage, because it could not be higher, the other energy of the whole mix we are talking about? I have one more, four, question. I know that this is one of the most carefully guarded secrets in the country, but could you answer me whose property they are for those notorious 15% of the TPPs, the Maritsa East 1s and the Maritsa East 3s? Bulgarian society is still asking the question about these 15%, but there is no answer. In those secrets of socialism there was a list of events and circumstances representing a military state secret. Maybe there's some kind of sample list right now?! The answer to the question of the fifteen percent appears to fall into this category. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u81	Mr. Ivanov, please come in for an answer to the four questions raised within the legal framework of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shopov, you are asking a question which, as you said, has been before Bulgarian energy for more than decades. Of course, I will answer you, but I intended, in the context of the answers of the honourable Members, to point out that what needs to be done in order to achieve full liberalisation of the market is some things. Firstly, a new energy strategy to identify the segments in energy, their role, importance and quantities in a long period of time by 2030 with a horizon up to 2050. Secondly, it is precisely the termination of long-term contracts with both AES and "Contur Global" plants, because any such contracts, as well as others to a lesser extent, but also seriously involved renewable energy producers and cogenerations, each of the third segments that benefit from State aid distort the market. There can be no liberalised market when there are special prices, long-term contracts and preferences. However, in order to be comprehensive, I would say that the next thing that needs to be done before full liberalisation is to create a clear mechanism for protecting energy vulnerable consumers. These are people who, by several criteria, have to be protected for age, income and health problems. Their price will continue to be set by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission until the price of full market liberalisation will not be subject to our regulation. About the two U.S. power plants. The contracts that have been concluded with them expire respectively: for..Contour Global in 2024, which was put into effect in 2009; for............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In terms of their prices. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has no opportunity to influence the fact that these prices are the result of a contract and clauses on it, as has been said, including by representatives of the government, and by Minister Temenuzhka Petkova: Nevertheless, because you are asking me about the price of AES for megawatt hours. Significantly lower in the order of 150 BGN. for megawatt hour, is the price of the "Contour Global." The truth is that the price was lower for them in the previous years, but due to an increase in the price of the quotas, what has a strong impact on the state thermal power plant - Maritsa East 2 - also affects these two plants. Of course, there the quotas are paid by the National Electricity Company, because they are under contract with these plants. As far as your question is concerned, it's 15%. I've read newspapers, but believe me, I don't have access to the contracts themselves or to what you're asking me because they're outside the competence of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. I declare quite firmly my opinion that we must as quickly as possible, literally within months, with one power plant, the contract to be changed, but it is up to the government, it is not up to the regulator. Of course, the same should be done with AED, but in a longer period. Thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u83	Thank you. This is followed by an attitude on behalf of the parliamentary groups in accordance with the procedure. On behalf of GERB's parliamentary group, come in, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Commissioners! 2015 was key in relation to the topic "Libertalization." The changes we have made have been able to pour liquidity into energy companies and balance energy. We have created conditions for a new Commission - not a state elected quite transparently through a procedure by the National Assembly in which they are clear and visible to all the qualities of the candidates. In fact, the lack of scandal is reflected in the work being carried out. Thank God, since then, the balanced solutions that I would say give fair prices, taking into account all the interests in the industry, have brought great peace to the energy system and harmony within the Commission itself. Of course, what we have achieved must protect and build on it. In this direction are the new changes in the Energy Act, the new opportunities that the gas market provides us with by building a gas hub. In other words, the joint efforts between Parliament, the Commission and executive powers give their results. They're visible and built up. I can say that, after the construction of the new infrastructure and the investments of the Bulgartransgaz (Bulgartransgaz)............................................... in the liquefied fuel terminal in Alexandroupolis, of course, and the Greek connection will enable us to liberalise the gas market and the interconnections accordingly. The electricity market, as I said in the exhibition, is now to the extent of medium-term European development. We are increasingly developing and building on it so that we can achieve full liberalisation. In general, the temptation to conduct a social policy through the cost of electricity is quite great. With the model that we have made through your decision, we have given the opportunity to have the price of electric power without anyone else, of course, interfering with you. You can even confirm that there is no interference by any politician so far in your decisions, to balance it out, because through obligations through society you can compensate for a corresponding increase in the price of the free market. As a legislator, along with your remarks, we will introduce the relevant framework. I think that when we go through full liberalisation and create the fund that compensates the energy poor people, there is it in the World Bank model, and it was made on behalf of the Ministry of Energy, we will have an absolutely correct one and I would say a free arrangement between consumers. The smallest consumers who can afford it are not energy poor, and therefore electricity traders will have access to this free market. I would say that right then we will have the opportunity to end the decapitalisation of energy companies as well. Of course, the rise in carbon emissions, which no one doubts because of EU policy and the new policies that will come into force from 2020 with Horizon 2030 - 2050, also shows us the direction that will develop in energy. It's pure energy derived from renewable sources. I would also put nuclear energy, which does not create carbon emissions, but there are other problems with processed nuclear fuel and will in any case put enormous pressure on coal plants. This pressure has to be solved. We are about to adopt the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to its development again in the short term " 2030" and long term " 2050." So we have a new challenge ahead of us, and I am glad that we can go this way. These bold decisions that we have made so far show their correctness, show that we have no scandals. By the way, in the Energy Committee for the first time, we see a pragmatism, a lack of political rations, a harmony in which we can decide together I'm sure they think the same way I do. This is the way to get energy out of politics. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u85	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Attitude on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs. Mr. Petrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u86	Dear Madam President, dear guests, honourable colleagues! I have listened very carefully to the dispute which was quite constructive in this National Assembly, and I believe that to a significant extent also reflects the complexity of the electricity supply regulation system. Here I would like to draw attention to the MPs that in Bulgaria, in Bulgaria, in recent years there has been a little talk about a market, more about regulating the existing situation. I think there's a serious reserve. Yesterday, before this debate, I looked at some data on energy in Germany, because it always amazes me how this big country decided to shut down all its nuclear plants, and some who had not entered into operation in the adoption of the Closing Act did not go at all. And how did the German state manage to engage not only the major producers, but managed to engage the citizens, managed to engage the municipalities all so that they could start thinking about how to import electricity into their country's system? In this regard, they work well. A large part of German society is put into the system, where it benefits from installing modern and cheap generators of electricity. I am referring to the decline in the price in Germany over the last 10 years of electricity from 50 cents to 10 cents from these renewables. In this respect, of course, criticism is tolerated by the Ministry of Energy, which seems to have become a dead end in the last two years and dare not come out of the frames where there are no new ideas, no new initiatives come from this ministry. But this is a problem of another debate. The first question is that in Bulgaria there is a solid reserve for electricity production if this production is really placed on the market and the citizens are included, and the micro-producers are included in this system. My second question is related to the two plants, as our colleague said, the so-called American power plants, which I do not know if this National Assembly takes into account what anti-American sentiments awakens in our society the fact that every pensioner of BGN 10, as far as I have heard, pays BGN 6. To those power plants? Their price is so high in some ways three times more expensive than the other producers. This instills anti-American moods in Bulgaria, which is not good. This is our biggest ally in NATO. We're NATO members. There is no such thing as a country coming anywhere and imposing certain conditions that are for banana republics and wanting to be respected afterwards! And continue to be stubborn, and to bring the government to its knees, and to question the functioning of the market system in Bulgaria. It's these plants that work on communists both! Only in communist and dictatorial societies is it possible to set a super high price and at this price to produce. This is contrary to our efforts of this National Assembly to be able to bring Bulgaria closer to the free trade societies with free agriculture. As my time is up, the last thing I want to say is that our entire society is outraged by the so-called cold reserve that has infiltrated our economy in a particularly unmarkety way. Why is this cold reserve not being used in cases where electricity reaches very high levels and affects the economy of our entire country? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-11.u87	That concludes the hearing procedure according to art. 113. Let me make parliamentary control announcements on Friday 12 April 2019: 1. The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer six questions from the MPs Atanas Stoyanov two questions; Daniela Dimitrova two questions; Nikolay Alexandrov; and Eugenia Alexieva. 2. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov will answer a question from the MP Aleksandar Sabanov. 3. The Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will answer two questions from the MPs Alexander Matsurev; and Daniela Saveklieva. 4. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer two questions from the MPs Krasimir Sabev; and Evgenia Angelova. 5. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer a question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov. 6. Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer three questions from the MPs Krasimir Bogdanov; Borislav Borisov; and Emil Tonchev. 7. Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will answer a question from the National Representative Krastina Taskova. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question written by the National Representative Elena Aksieva; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov, one question from the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov of a question by the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question by the National Representative Emil Tonchev. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a question from the National Representative Dimitar Boychev to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev; - a question from the National Representative Elena Axieva to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova. Due to the country's absence in the parliamentary control meeting, Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva and Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov will not participate. Dear Members of the National Assembly, next regular meeting on 12 April 2019, 9.00 We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
