ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u1	There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure I propose the inclusion of new points in our weekly Programme.. Projects of decisions on changes in committees and delegations of the National Assembly, importers are the MPs Dragomir Stoynev, Daniela Daritkova, Gemma Grozdanova, Iskren Veselinov and Valentin Kasabov, as point two for today's plenary session. Due to the large volume of parliamentary control envisaged for today, I propose that parliamentary control should begin immediately after the legislative part of today's meeting is completed, and the meeting continues until the issues are exhausted. Please, voting mode. Vote 156 MPs: for 154, against none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted. Let's start with the first point: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF ANEX TO THE On 14 December 2018 in Sofia, No 902-02-23, introduced by the MINISTER's Council of Ministers. Report of the Committee on Culture and Media. Mrs. Chekanska, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Mr. Rumen Dimitrov to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u3	I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission made in this House. Vote 142 MPs: for 136, no against, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u4	This Regulation on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of Annex to the Framework Agreement on the Project "Traducci" on support and mediation for projects in the field of translation in South East Europe and the accession of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Project for the period 1 January 2019. 31 December 2020, signed by the Bulgarian side on 14 December 2018 in Sofia, No 902-02-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2019. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 12 September 2019, a Draft Law on the ratification of Annex to the Framework Agreement on the Project "Traducki" on support and mediation for projects in the field of translation in South East Europe and the accession of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria to the project for the period 1 January 2019. 31 December 2020, signed by the Bulgarian side on 14 December 2018 in Sofia, No 902-02-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Culture: Petar Miladinov, Director of the Directorate of International Cooperation, European Programs and Regional Activities. The bill was presented by Mr. Peter Miladinov. The project "Tradduci" is a European Network for Literature and Books for Support and Mediation for Translation Projects in South East Europe. In the last 10 years, Bulgarian publishers and translators have received financial support from the programme, but their participation in it has not been permanent, and the programme itself is not very famous in the country. On 14 December 2018 in Sofia, the Annex was signed between the Republic of Bulgaria and the organization managing the project Bulgaria's accession to the Traduci Project as an equal member enables: support the participation of Bulgarian book publishers in international book fairs; Bulgarian authors to present their works on European stage; promotion of Bulgarian authors and works through translation into various languages; distribution of our national literature through participation of Bulgarian authors, translators, publishers, librarians and critics in meetings and presentations in Europe. In accordance with § 8 of the Framework Agreement, etc. The annual financial contribution of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Project Tradukdi is 10 000 euros from the Anex as of 2019. The expenditure shall be at the expense of the budget of the Ministry of Culture for the relevant year. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Agreement must be ratified by law. As a result of a vote held unanimously with 14 votes for the Culture and Media Committee, the National Assembly proposes to support the First Voting Draft for the ratification of Annex to the Framework Agreement on the Project "Traducci" on support and mediation for projects in the field of translation in South East Europe and the accession of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria to the project for the period 1 January 2019. 31 December 2020, signed by the Bulgarian side on 14 December 2018 in Sofia, No 902-02-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Chekanska. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Dear Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor to present the Report to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It's your attention. ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Annex to the Framework Agreement on the Project "Transduci" on support and mediation for projects in the field of translation in South East Europe and the accession of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria to the project for the period 1 January 2019. 31 December 2020, signed by the Bulgarian side on 14 December 2018 in Sofia., No 902-02-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2019. At a regular meeting held on 12 September 2019, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Anex to the Framework Agreement on the Project "Traducci" on support and mediation for projects in the field of translation in South East Europe and the accession of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria to the project for the period 1 January 2019. 31 December 2020, signed by the Bulgarian side on 14 December 2018 in Sofia, No 902-02-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2019. The project is the European Literature and Book Network, which participates fully in the Federal Ministry of Europe, the Integration and Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Austria, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Swiss Cultural Foundation On 14 December 2018 in Sofia, the Annex was signed between the Republic of Bulgaria and the This allows the Bulgarian country and in particular the book sector authors, publishers, literature, translation, libraries, book fairs, to have significant advantages from Bulgaria's accession to the European network of Traduks and works as an equal member, namely: support the participation of Bulgarian book publishers in international book fairs; opportunity for Bulgarian authors to present their works on European stage; promotion of Bulgarian authors and works through translation into various languages; promotion of our national literature through participation of Bulgarian authors, translators, publishers, librarians and critics in meetings and presentations in Europe. In accordance with § 8 of the Framework Agreement, etc. The annual financial contribution of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria to the project "Traducki" is set at 10 000 euros from the Aneksa as of 2019. The expenditure shall be at the expense of the budget of the Ministry of Culture for the relevant year (2019). The Agreement shall be subject to ratification on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After the discussion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for the proposed bill by concluding its discussion with the following results: 17 votes for the draft project, no objection and abstention, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft for the ratification of the Annex to the Framework Agreement on the Project "Traducki" on support and mediation for projects in the field of translation in South East Europe and the accession of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria to the project for the period 1 January 2019. 31 December 2020, signed by the Bulgarian side on 14 December 2018 in Sofia., No 902-02-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Alexandrova will present the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of Annex to the Framework Agreement on the Project "Traducci" on support and mediation for projects in the field of translation in South East Europe and the accession of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria to the project for the period 1 January 2019. 31 December 2020, signed by the Bulgarian side on 14 December 2018 in Sofia, No 902-02-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2019. At its meeting, held on 11 September 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law on the ratification of Annex to the Framework Agreement on the Project "Traducci" on support and mediation for projects in the field of translation in South East Europe and the accession of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria to the project for the period 1 January 2019. 31 December 2020, signed by the Bulgarian side on 14 December 2018 in Sofia, No 902-02-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria: Mr. Petar Miladinov Director of the Directorate of International Cooperation, European Programs and Regional Activities and Mrs. Ludmila Harizanova General Legal Consult at the Directorate of Legal Activity and Public Procurement. The bill was presented by Mr. Miladinov, who pointed out that the project "Transduci" is a European network for literature and books and aims to encourage intellectual exchange and dialogue between Southeast Europe and the German-speaking countries. The accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Network of Traduks. As an equal member will provide significant advantages to authors, publishers, libraries and fairs of the book by supporting the participation of Bulgarian book publishers in international book fairs and providing the opportunity for Bulgarian authors to present their works on a European stage and to promote the works of Bulgarian authors through translation into other languages. Mr. Miladinov noted that the annual financial contribution of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria to the project "Tradukdi" amounted to 10 000 euros and is at the expense of the budget of the Ministry of Culture for the relevant year (2019 "2020."). As a result of the vote held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 17 votes for...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 31 December 2020, signed by the Bulgarian side on 14 December 2018 in Sofia, No 902-02-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on Annex to the Framework Agreement on the Project "Tradduci" on support and mediation for projects in the field of translation in South East Europe and the accession of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria to the project for the period 1 January 2019. 31 December 2020, signed by the Bulgarian side on 14 December 2018 in Sofia, No 902-02-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2019 Vote 120 MPs: for 119, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. You're welcome, dear Mrs. Chekanska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u10	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, I am doing a procedure on the grounds of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to adopt the Law on the ratification of Annex to the Framework Agreement on Project Traduci.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u11	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 121 MPs: 121, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u12	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of an annex to the Framework Agreement on the project "Traducci" on support and mediation for projects in the field of translation in South East Europe and the accession of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria to the project for the period 1 January 2019. 31 December 2020, signed by the Bulgarian side on 14 December 2018 in Sofia. A single member. He ratified the Annex to the Framework Agreement on the Project "Traducci" on support and mediation for projects in the field of translation in South East Europe and the accession of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria to the project for the period 1 January 2019. 31 December 2020, signed by the Bulgarian side on 14 December 2018 in Sofia.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u13	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put two texts to the vote: the first is the name of the Law, the second is the content of a member only by importer. They voted 119 MPs: for 119, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am making the procedure adopted yesterday at the first vote a bill amending the Law on Stock Exchanges and Trades, the period between first and second readings to be maximum.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u15	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 108 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS ON CHANGES IN COMMITMENTS AND DELEGATIONS OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. I'll introduce you to the solutions. Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on Culture and Media The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 3, p. 2 and para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Donka Dimova Simeonova as a member of the Committee on Culture and Media. 2. He elected Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov as a member of the Committee on Culture and Media. Please, voting mode. Vote 105 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I present the next one: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Energy Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 1 and 3 and art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Donka Dimova Simeonova as a member of the Energy Commission. Please, voting mode. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I present the next one: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Temporary Committee of inquiry to clarify all the facts and circumstances surrounding the case of the draining of information from the electronic database of the National Revenue Agency The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 3, p. 2 and para. Art. 4 and art. 37, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Yavor Rumenov Bojankov as a member of the Temporary Committee of inquiry to clarify all the facts and circumstances surrounding the case of draining information from the electronic database of the National Revenue Agency. 2. He elected Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev as a member of the Temporary Committee of inquiry to clarify all the facts and circumstances surrounding the case of draining information from the electronic database of the National Revenue Agency. Please, voting mode. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I present the next one: Project! DECISION to complete the composition of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Cooperation Process in South East Europe The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 38 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Evgeni Genchev Budinov as a replacement representative in the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Cooperation Process in Southeast Europe. Please, voting mode. Vote 114 MPs: for 113, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I present the next one: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition and management of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Interparliamentary Assembly of Orthodoxy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 38 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Volen Nikolov Siderov as a member and head of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly in the Interparliamentary Assembly of Orthodoxy. 2. He elected Milen Vassilev Mihov as a member and head of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly at the Interparliamentary Assembly of Orthodoxy. Please, voting mode. Voted 108 MPs: 103, none against abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I present the next one: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of Francophones The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 38 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova as a member of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of Francophones. 2. He elected Yordan Apostolov Apostolov as a member of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of Francophones. Please, voting mode. Vote 108 MPs: for 107, none against, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I present the next one: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition and management of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Dimension of the Central European Initiative The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 38 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Nikolay Alexandrov as a member and head of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Dimension of the Central European Initiative. 2. He elected Valeri Simeonov as a member and head of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly in the Parliamentary Dimension of the Central European Initiative. Please, voting mode. Voted 103 MPs: 101, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Presenting the last one: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Interparliamentary Union The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 38 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Desislav Chukolov as a member of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Interparliamentary Union. 2. He elected Alexander Siddy as a member of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Interparliamentary Union. Please, voting mode. They voted 113 MPs: for 113, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 13 September to 19 September 2019: A question has been received from the MP Cornelia Ninova to Boyko Borisov, Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, concerning the national security policy related to the country's accession to Schengen. The reply should be made in plenary on 27 September 2019. There has been a question from the MP Anton Kutev to Boil Banov, Minister of Culture, on the policies of the government to guarantee freedom of speech in Bulgaria. The reply should be made in plenary on 27 September 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u16	First I have to present this impressive folder with written answers from: - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Nikolai Ivanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Hristo Grudev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on two issues from the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Dimitar Danchev and Lubomir Bonev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Stanislav Vladimirov and Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov on a question from the National Representative Mihail Hristov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Hristo Grudev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the MPs Elhan Kalkov, Imren Mehmedova and Sevim Ali. Honourable Members, we are continuing with parliamentary control. Mr. Kiril Ananiev will be the first to answer questions from MPs. A question to him will put Valentina Naydenova on the type of National Health Insurance Fund and the new funding entities in the national health care system................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Here you are, dear Dr. Naydenova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u17	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! During a discussion of the round table held on 15 July this year at the National Palace of Culture on the topic of the new healthcare route, the terms such as the insurance, the insurance, the insurance, the insurance companies and so on were used. There has been an ambiguity regarding compliance in the management of public financial resources for health with the requirement of art. 52 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, where the term insurance is used and not insurance. Dear Minister, how will mandatory financial resources be managed for health only through the Bismarck Solidar Insurance Model, only through individual insurance or mixed insurance system, where is the beginning and end of one, and the beginning and end of the other, under the conditions of demonopolization of the National Health Insurance Fund, which you intend to do?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u18	Thank you, dear Dr. Naydenova. Mr. Minister, please, you have the opportunity to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Naydenova, as is known on 15 July this year at the second round table for reform of the health insurance model, I presented for discussion the second stage of the development of a new model of our health care. I made this proposal following a study of practices in the European Union and following a discussion that took place in several working groups after the first round table in September 2018. The main objective of the presented model is to give the patient a choice of the following: who to manage his health contributions; where to treat under the best conditions in the country; full awareness of the scope and prices of medical services and medicines. The aim is to introduce such a model to ensure quality control of services, to ensure accessibility and financial sustainability. The main part of this model is the full demonopolisation of the National Health Insurance Fund and the introduction of the health funds of NHIF and private funds. The same will compete equally and should meet all solvency requirements, financial sustainability and be subject to regulation under the general regime of European legislation. The Ministry of Health will define medical standards, control of medical activities and their quality through the Executive Agency. The Ministry of Health approves the basic package of health activities, which is agreed with the word organizations and is covered by the health contributions of the Bulgarian citizens. The costs of the activities in the basic package will be negotiated between the funds and the medical aid contractors, and word organizations will prepare the rules for good medical practice and continued training. Medical establishments will form prices for activities outside the basic package, the same will be covered by voluntary health insurance or payments from patients. No change in the amount of the health insurance contribution is envisaged and persons should voluntarily choose which fund to sign up to. The National Revenue Agency will collect the contributions of all health insured persons and the funds from the health contributions will be allocated monthly to the health funds. The amount of funds will be equal to the number of insured persons recorded in each fund multiplied by the average amount of the health contribution for all health insured persons. It will not matter who is the payer of the contribution and for whose account the person is provided. The model will start from a fixed starting date of the relevant financial year in which the first fund or the first funds are licensed. Dear Dr. Naydenova, the question you have asked includes the three possible options for spending the financial resources for health care. The current model and the presented options for the two round tables. Which of these options will be preferred is a question to which I would not like to give a firm answer yet, as there is no public and political consensus on choosing a model for financing and health care organisation. I hope, on the basis of our work on the environment and the legal framework in which the current health system operates, including the valuation of medical activities, the good European practices that we can borrow, and not least on the importance of bringing together the positions of the political forces around one version, which will be supported by a consensus of the Bulgarian citizens, to propose a working model for better health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u20	Thank you, dear Minister. Dr. Naydenova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u21	Dear Minister, I understand from what has been said so far that you have chosen the stock principle both in the private sector and in relation to the National Health Insurance Fund, as the terminology I would like to draw your attention to two things that make an impression on us. First, regarding the basic package. You say that you study and are based on the practices of the European Union. Did you know that in the Netherlands, the patient himself, going to his personal physician, chooses what to be included in the basic package, which will cover with the means to which it is provided? I'm done. I put it to you as a question, because in a basic package there is both an hour for prevention and for curative activity, so their experience I think can be used. The second thing I'm in a hurry to tell you. Does this mean that the National Health Insurance Fund will remain as a safe and will be re-registered as a fund because you only accept funds because the Cashier is one thing and the fund is quite another? From the BSP for Bulgaria and from the beginning we declared that we are against the demonophilization of the Casa and I suppose that we will not change our position, but I see that the Bulgarian Medical Union also thought about the consequences of a demonopolitization of the Casa and is against it. You have given an answer whether the Cashier will continue to exist in this form, as so far, or as a fund, but I am still worried that nothing will be done in this direction and it will be reduced in its current activity.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u22	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. We understand your concerns. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to confirm these concerns or distract them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u23	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Dr. Naydenova, you correctly quoted the model in the Netherlands, but it is very specific and unique throughout Europe. We have used the practice and experience of most, not to tell almost all European countries in which there is multi-fund funding, so ours is not an exception, but vice versa the Dutch is an exception, this first. Secondly, the National Health Insurance Fund will also be licensed as an insurance company so that it has all the conditions for competition with the other funds. We will not leave it with limited activity and not be able to enter into competition with the other funds in this you can be sure, nor will we allow the National Health Insurance Fund to go from the sick to say from a severe disease, the old, the needy, with a high value of funding. There are rules by which we will regulate the movement of patients depending on all criteria that are related to it. There will be no division by gender, age, illness, so rest assured "The Health Insurance Fund will be an equal partner with all other funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u24	Thank you, dear Minister. We are continuing with a question from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov about the possibilities for solving the problem of underprivileged general practitioners for the so-called adverse practices under the criteria of the National Health Insurance Fund. Here you are, Associate Professor Chakarov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Ananiev, we have had the opportunity with you, and at parliamentary control, we have repeatedly discussed not only the European Commission report of June with a view to macroeconomic imbalances in the part of health, where it was seen and we know this, a very serious imbalance with regard to general practitioners. Unfortunately, our country ranks in one of the last places - only Greece is following us, with regard to the collateralisation of the population of 100,000 residents with general practitioners, in our country the figure is 64, in Greece is 42. It is worrying that there are many areas in the country where in the last 10 years no practice has been found. For Sofia we can give an example that in 2000 there are about 1000 general practitioners, and currently they are 800. Particularly disturbing is the situation and condition in some areas and cities. For example, there is only one general practitioner in Harmanli who is also a pediatrician, and the other personal physician has discontinued his practice. However, a critical shortage of general practitioners is found in Kardzhaliysko. The depopulation of villages, the ageing population, but despite the bonuses of local authorities there are many unoccupied places. Kardzhali district has the most serious shortage of general practitioners. Particularly critical is the condition in Krumovgrad municipality, where out of 17 practices, 11 are unoccupied, i.e. only 6 are occupied. Another municipality, where very serious efforts are being made and which helps to reveal practices, is the municipality of Ardino, where on its part to the subsidy of BGN 800. add more, but still do not work. In talks with the mayors of the district of Kardzhali, they address you and the National Health Insurance Fund, to make sure that there are practices with a view to having general practitioners performing their duties and functions on the front of health care. In view of this, my question to you is: after the discussion, the debates we had, what is done for areas such as Kardzhali, where the condition is critical in order to secure general practitioners in order to be on the front line of healthcare? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u26	Thank you. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Associate Professor Chakarov, the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund by Decision of 3 May 2018 adopted a Methodology for determining the monthly salary for working in settlements with addresses registered in regional health inspections with adverse conditions for the operation of primary medical care contractors. The methodology is consistent with the Governing Council of the Bulgarian Medical Union. The list of settlements and remunerations for working in them, the monthly amounts paid by the National Health Insurance Fund to the general practitioners, established on the basis of the Methodology, is in force from 1 April 2018. The methodology allows for any change in the circumstances of the individual contracts between the general practitioners and the National Health Insurance Fund after a meeting with the respective Regional Medical College of the Bulgarian Medical Union to be amended and supplemented. This has occurred seven times since the date of entry into force of the Methodology. In 2018, a total of 4 million were paid for work in adverse conditions by the National Health Insurance Fund. 816 thousand. BGN 291. or 2.33% of spent primary outpatient medical care. At national level in 2018 an increase in the paid funds has been reported compared to the previous year. The agreed optimal amount for 2019 for payments for practices identified as adverse is 5 million. lv. The National Health Insurance Fund paid 3 million in January 2019. 293 thousand. BGN 293. For the same period of the previous year, the funds are 3 million. 189,000. BGN 238. The National Health Insurance Fund is open for discussion in the development of the new methodologies for the allocation of these funds during the budgetary year. In this regard, the expectations are during the negotiation process for the preparation of the National Framework Treaty on Medical Activities for 2020 to discuss proposals, new criteria for a fair distribution of funds for work under adverse conditions. At the same time, I would like to inform you that, after a broad public discussion on 23 July 2019, a Regulation amending and supplementing Regulation No 1 on the acquisition of a specialty in the health system was approved and promulgated. The developed amendment and supplement of the Ordinance introduced an effective mechanism for carrying out the state policy to ensure the necessary specialists in accordance with the established needs of specialists in the country and by regions. It is envisaged that the Ministry of Health should subsidise the training bases of the places financed by the State in clinical specialities, thus providing the necessary specialists will be actively funded by the state budget and will not be at the expense of the budget of the medical institutions. Taking into account the need to stimulate the interest in acquiring a specialty of general medicine, the Ministry of Health has made a change in the conditions for specialization in the context of the creation of the possibility of subsidizing the training facilities, namely the General Medicine Scholarship is already carried out under the general order of clinical specialties based on a temporary contract of employment for a resident, which will solve the main problem of lack of income during the specialization. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that in order to increase the interest in the specialization of the General Medicine, it is necessary not only to improve the conditions for training, but also to have good professional realization after the completion of the training. Unlike financial and material resources, human resources are not subject to mechanical or compulsory territorial distribution. For their optimal redistribution, it is necessary to create a favorable environment providing opportunities and incentives to produce in the medical specialists themselves a desire to change the workplace and the settlement. Such incentives can be created for attractive working conditions, appropriate remuneration, good conditions for professional development, favourable conditions for training and development of children of medical professionals, for the work of other family members and others. Here, apart from the state, important responsibility and role have the authorities for local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u28	Thank you, dear Minister. Docent Chakarov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Ananiev, it is obvious that efforts are being made... what has been done in May is undoubtedly a step; it is extremely positive in the direction of the settlement of the pay, the new form and formulation for the specializations in the country. But in order to have an extreme effect, what I would like to share here with you is that we need to see if that is enough. In Kardzhaliyska and in similar areas, it is not only the focus, but in view of the fact that there is the most serious insecurity, in view of the adverse practices of general practitioners, it may be good to see that there is a willingness on your part, I hope that the NHIF together with the representatives of general practitioners in the area concerned, in view of the specific conditions, as you pointed out in your reply, and the representatives of the local authorities, i.e. the seven municipalities in Kardzhaliyska, naturally, and in other areas, to find a differentiated approach to solving these problems. It is hardly necessary to point out the importance of general practitioners on the front front what obligations they have and how much the functioning of the healthcare system can be improved. So they're worth the effort. I count on your dialogue and willingness to continue this dialogue. Of course, we are now on the eve of local elections. This is best done immediately after they are held, but it should not be postponed much in time because it cannot be delayed. It's really disturbing in view of the picture we all see. I hope with joint efforts to have good results and to find a formulation so that there is covering the places where there are really adverse practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u30	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u31	Just one sentence, Madam President. Docent Chakarov, I will repeat what I just said, which answers your proposal as well. We are starting negotiations with the Bulgarian Medical Union for 2020. I also mentioned that we will provide for some new, specific criteria to take account of what you are talking about. I hope that together, together, we can really come to those criteria that will accurately account for the regions, territories and settlements where there is such a problem. From the very moment I entered the Ministry of Health, I did an analysis of human resources in the system. Unfortunately, a large reduction in the number of general practitioners, in general the medical staff in all its types, the lowest point is somewhere around 2000. Then, my colleagues before that, and I think I am continuing this trend, taking steps, but it is very difficult to restore what was in the years until 2000. Either way, that's what we're after. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u32	Thank you, Minister Ananiev. We continue with a question from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov concerning the opening of a medical establishment on the territory of Gabrovo. Here you are, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Last month, the public witnessed a decision by the Council of Ministers to open a multi-profile medical facility on the territory of Gabrovo and Gabrovo district. My question specifically to you is: what are the arguments presented by the Ministry of Health to uncover this medical establishment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u34	Thank you. Minister Ananiev, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u35	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihaylov, with amendments to the Law on Hospitals on 1 April 2019, hospitals are established by a decision of the Council of Ministers based on a comprehensive assessment of the needs of the population of medical care according to the National Health Card adopted by decision of the Council of Ministers of 2018, and the documents submitted by the applicant under the Order of the Law on Medical Institutions. A complex assessment shall be carried out by the Executive Agency. Where the submitted documents by the applicant state that the medical establishment will be financed by funds from the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, the procedure also requires an opinion of the NHIF on the possibilities for financing the relevant activities. The decision of the Council of Ministers approving the establishment of a hospital care facility shall define: the type of hospital care facility, the structure, the number of hospital beds envisaged, the medical activities by type and level of competence of the relevant structures and the period for the implementation of the project, to which an application for authorisation may be submitted under the Law on Hospitals. In line with the amendments to the Law on Hospitals.St. Ivan Rilski... Gabrovo is a hospital care facility, which should be established by a decision of the Council of Ministers. According to the project submitted by the applicant, the new medical facility will be a multi-profile hospital for active treatment, situated in a separate building, specially designed and built for the purpose, and the three-year business plan for the development of the hospital "St. Ivan Rilski" "Gabrovo," provides for the medical establishment to have 107 beds and to carry out medical activities in the scope of medical specialties in internal diseases, pneumology and phthsiatry, cardiology, gastroenterology, nephrology, endocrinology and exchange diseases, nervous diseases, physical and rehabilitating medicine and imaging. In the framework of the procedure under the Law on Medical Institutions, an opinion was expressed by the NHIF, according to which it is inappropriate to increase the financing of hospital care establishments in Gabrovo for payment of activities implemented by existing medical institutions. In view of this, the activities of the University Hospital "St. Ivan Rilski" "St. Gabrovo" will be carried out under the conditions of art. 59, para. 1a of the Health Insurance Act. The Medical Supervision Executive Agency has prepared an assessment of the needs based on the National Health Card, according to which Gabrovo region has completely exhausted the possibilities for opening new beds on some of the requested medical specialties, such as gastroenterology, endocrinology and exchange diseases, nervous diseases, and the other medical specialties required are limited. In accordance with the administrative procedure, regulated in full in art. 37a of the Law on Medical Institutions, based on a comprehensive assessment by the Executive Agency "Medical supervision" and the proposal of the Minister of Health was taken Decision No 513 of 26 August 2019 of the Council of Ministers, approving the establishment of the Hospital "St. Ivan Rilski" and which will operate only on the medical specialties for which a need for the National Health Card has been established, with a total of 47 beds. By the same decision of the Council of Ministers, it is refused to approve the carrying out of activities in medical specialities gastroenterology, endocrinology and diseases of exchange and nervous diseases for which no need for the National Health Card has been established and the comprehensive assessment carried out by the Executive Agency. The period until which the manager of the Hospital "St. Ivan Rilski" "St. Gabrovo" can submit an application to the Minister of Health for authorisation to carry out the medical activity under art. 47 of the Law on Medical Institutions is also determined by the Decision of the Council of Ministers " Within three months of its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u36	Thank you, dear Minister. Professor Mikhailov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, in front of me are the data of the National Statistical Institute, which has been published officially. The district of Gabrovo has 112 thousand residents at the moment the number of hospital hospitals is five, thus making six. By the number of beds per 1,000 people from the population of districts in Bulgaria, according to NSI data for 2018, it is located in an average position with 4.55 beds, such as Sofia, with nearly 2 million inhabitants, outnumbered by only one unit of Gabrovo district. And with regard to a passed number of patients, it is located in the three of the championship in third place after Sofia and Pleven. That is to say, you remember our discussion about the elements, the conflict points in the creation of the National Health Card, how they were tracted by the Doctor's Union, by the regional committees of the Medical Union, which participated in their preparation, I see no point even in these 47 beds for which the hospital has been authorised. With all the efforts made by the Health Commission and by the colleagues in the Chamber in the vote on the budget of the NHIF, to limit the number of beds in Bulgaria and in medical institutions, because we are first in number in the number of beds per capita in Europe, we are in an unfavorable position, one of the first places in the number of settlements over a million and two hundred thousand, in all the efforts of the NHIF and the Ministry to reduce them in recent years, it is absolutely strange to me that this decision is unfounded. This raises the even bigger question that we raised in the discussion of the Final Provisions on this occasion, and not only on this occasion, we have lodged our complaint with the Constitutional Court: where will the Council of Ministers decide to open one or another hospital, which is entirely within the competence of the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u38	Thank you. Here's your coat, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u39	Dear Professor Mihailov, from your speech I understand that you are questioning the principles and rules under which the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Health, has adopted this decision. If you remember well, because I see that there are really many good health professionals here, in the original version I had suggested opening hospitals, as well as opening higher education institutions, to be done by the National Assembly. Then your motives were that you do not have this competence and there is no way for the National Assembly to do so. And now you're actually going out and saying that this decision isn't right. Well, since you have this competence, why did you reject my proposal here to approve the opening of the new hospitals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u40	Thank you. Unfortunately, you don't have the opportunity to respond and respect, Professor Mihailov. We continue with the next question that you have asked a question from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov concerning transplant treatment of Bulgarian citizens outside the country. Here's an actual topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, within the limits of parliamentary tolerance and rules, I will not take advantage of my word now...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u42	Don't.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u43	...to make a replica of Mr. Minister's backdrop, and I'll move on to the next question. In recent weeks, we have witnessed, as a public, two, widely commented by the media, events. One was the presentation of successfully transplanted Bulgarian children outside of the country. I do not want to comment on where and with what health problems they were, and it was pointed out that a significant number of funds have been raised that have practically expired outside the country. Against the background of all this again by the media, and for good reason, the detention of a group of people who have envisaged the execution of an illegal transplant in a neighbouring country by rules that absolutely contradict the Law. On 1 February 2019, by a decision of the National Assembly, we charged you with drawing up quick measures, followed by an analysis by you to improve the status of the Transplantation Program in Bulgaria in all its directions. Within the framework of academic tolerance, so to call it, with a two-month delay on May 28th, you presented to the National Assembly a report on which we had a debate. Now, in the last 30 days, apart from these unpleasant facts, I believe we have also witnessed another fact which I do not believe you have any personal responsibility to break our contact with the hospital in Vienna, which had entered into collaboration with the Bulgarian Ministry in terms of lung transplants. I took the liberty of reading the published by the so-called Executive Agency "Medical supervision" an analysis of the transplant activity. I would not call this analysis a statistic, and they continue to confirm in me, and in all the people who have done and dealt with transplant activities in the Republic of Bulgaria, the impression that we are standing in a very serious standstill and the vague attempts of analysis that have been cited here could not satisfy the desire and the well-prepared Bulgarian transplant teams, as well as the whole nation, for solving such important problems as the problems of the patients in need of transplantation. My question to you is: share as principal of the Ministry of Health what is the state of the National Program at the moment? What is uploaded to the Ministry's website concerns only the promotion of donation, but it does not concern the global problem in the Transplantation Program in Bulgaria. How do you see its resolution in the foreseeable future? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u44	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u45	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, dear Professor Mihaylov! The project of the National Programme for the Promotion of Donation and Assistance of Transplant 2019 covers all types of organs of transplantation of Bulgarian citizens in Bulgaria regardless of their age and provides for measures to identify all potential donors. In this sense, the liver transplantation for children can be carried out on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria in the presence of a suitable donor, the inclusion of the Bulgarian patient in the waiting list in Bulgaria and in compliance with all requirements for quality of health care at any stage of the transplantation. The draft of the National Programme was published for comments and comments on 14 August 2019 on the official website of the Ministry of Health, discussing the proposals submitted on the document. By the way, I also changed the order. I also introduced two representatives of the patient organizations. They will come with concrete proposals and we will really improve the content and quality of the Programme. For the implementation of the planned measures is also provided for the provision of funds for both pre-transplant and transplant and post-transplant monitoring, treatment, research and others, for the necessary equipment and stimulation of donation coordinators the transplant teams and medical staff involved in the activity. To this end, opportunities will be sought to provide European funds as well. Nevertheless, with the draft budget of the Ministry of Health, I have made my request to the Ministry of Finance. With the proposed changes in Regulation No 2. This is the new one, which I hope you have seen, developed jointly with representatives of NHIF, parents of children with onco-hematological diseases and of the medical institutions in which these children are treated, is eased the access of Bulgarian citizens, including children, to quality and timely medical care. Currently, organ transplantation, haematopoietic stem cells abroad can only be financed in the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation or in countries with which Bulgaria has concluded a contract. The Ministry of Health suggests that this restriction should be dropped and, in cases where the transplant cannot be carried out in Bulgaria, it should be financed in the most suitable medical facility abroad for the patient. The care for contact and communication with transplant centres will be not of the patient, but of the responsible public institutions. The transplants carried out in this order will be financed by the state. The changes are published on the website of the Ministry of Health and by the end of September their discussion will be completed. Our country is making every effort to strengthen cooperation for organ exchange and to join a Eurotransplant as an equal partner. In this respect, it is important that after the establishment of the Executive Agency "Medical supervision" Bulgaria has provided seven bodies along the Eurotransplant line, four of which are lungs. Our country also joined the FOEDUS electronic platform for exchange of organs between the members of the organization. In view of the lack of specialists in the country who can conduct pulmonary transplantation, the cooperation with the breast surgery wards continues at the Multiprofile Hospital of Vienna for training of Bulgarian specialists. Four of our doctors have already passed short-term training at the Vienna Hospital, and in January 2020, the long-term training of 16 of our specialists will begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u46	Thank you. After the answer, there's a line. Here you are, Professor Mihailov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, in a private conversation with you, I asked in this analysis and in the measures taken to pay serious attention to cellular transplantation. I've made an argument to you. Then there was a request from your deputy to the main structure involved with this problem in Bulgaria, but again in this analysis and again all that is spoken in Bulgaria, the cell transplantation, which is a strategic fragment of the entire Transplantation Program at my discretion, and it is quite objective as a specialist, is neglecting. I therefore ask you, at the beginning of my remarks, to pay serious attention to this and I hope that in the coming months, when the budget is formed, attention will indeed be paid to this fragment of the Programme. As for what you have noted, I would not agree with any positive change in the Republic of Bulgaria regarding healthcare to happen after a sad case. You remember the case, which is commented June month, you remember the facts that were presented on this case.....................................I do not want to concern my colleagues and the honourable viewers and listeners of parliamentary control with the sad facts then around the history of the disease of a Bulgarian child, so that we can only get to the idea of what kind of nonsenses are taking place in providing access to such patients to treatment, the participation of their parents in the mechanism for reaching medicines and so on. I wish you with all my heart to both the Ministry and Bulgaria to resolve these problems in advance in the country and not to come to their decision after one or another sad fact has happened. More importantly, however, it is.. and therefore I hope that there will be dialogue, but real dialogue now, in the construction of the budget. We have tabled, you know, a bill to amend the Law on Organ, Tissue and Cell Transplant, in which we try with the best intentions to facilitate part of logistics, I do not say the whole logistics of the transplant process, as in the Law we propose, the amendment of the Law, is explicitly written the funding, the deliberate funding of this programme. I would be extremely pleased to have it, I hope that the members of the Health Commission, our parliamentary group, will have access to the discussions on the budget in this respect, and when we come to its adoption, in advance to the meetings of the relevant committees, it will not come to this galloping through figures with the power of the majority to resolve things, but indeed in a consensual way we will find this solution in the budget, which must solve these serious and so vulnerable health problems in the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u48	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u49	Dear Professor Mihailov, you can be sure that I am not the kind of person who likes to go after events. Why are we changing Regulation 2 now? Because by summer we had concluded an agreement with the Vienna Hospital not only for training, but also for transplants of Bulgarian citizens. Unfortunately, not only in Austria, in all European countries transplanting foreign nationals has been terminated. It's not a Bulgarian problem. This is Europe's problem. It was terminated for two reasons: firstly, for lack of sufficient donors, secondly for lack of staff. Notice the nurse staff, which is why all transplant centers sent a letter to all other countries that they stopped receiving transplants from foreign citizens because they could not serve their own citizens as well. This gave me the right and the reason to immediately trigger the change in Regulation No 2 and, as you can see, it literally after 10 days, when the public discussion ends on the Ministry's website, I will sign it and it will become a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u50	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. My fellow Members, before we proceed, I will read a message. An exhibition dedicated to 70 years of establishment of diplomatic relations between Bulgaria and China will be opened at the Club of the National Representative. It presents the works of six Chinese and seven Bulgarian artists, which reflect the nature of the cultures of the two countries. The exhibition reveals the friendly relations between Bulgaria and China. All MPs are invited to the opening. We're continuing with parliamentary control. A question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov on the impact of the dangerous amounts of sulphur dioxide in the air on the health of the Bulgarians. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! In the middle of last month, a research came out of the "Greenpeace" India, "The Global Database" at the hottest points of sulphur dioxide pollution. Although it remained somewhat out of the public curiosity, it makes it clear that Bulgaria is the only country in the European Union, ranked in the top 20 of the world's largest sulphur dioxide pollutants, although I can say it by comparison, by territory we occupy 111 place and by population 101 place. The sulphur dioxide is an extremely dangerous air contaminant and enters the body through the respiratory system. At high concentrations, its absorption reaches up to 90% in the upper respiratory tract, less in the lower respiratory tract, acts highly irritating to the eyes, mucous membranes, skin and airways. In severe poisoning, bronchospasm, pulmonary oedema, acute airway obstruction and pneumonia may occur. The health effects of sulphur dioxide occur with respiratory disorder, pulmonary disease, lung immune impairment and an increase in existing pulmonary and cardiovascular diseases. These are things that should raise concern in the health authorities in Bulgaria, and those who are involved in ecology, of course. Dear Minister, I am asking myself the question with a clear awareness that these things should not bother you, but we still have to go out to the Bulgarian public with some clear position on these gassings of people. Therefore, I ask you: Is there research and analysis of the effects of sulphur dioxide on the health of the Bulgarians, specific studies for Bulgarians by districts in the risk areas mostly? The most important question, Minister, is: what preventive measures for the protection of the health of Bulgarians from the impact of dangerous amounts of sulphur dioxide in the air will the Ministry of Health target and implement and, of course, within what deadlines? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Minister Ananiev, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, the national competent authority for environmental issues, including the prevention and control of polluting air emissions, is the Ministry of Environment and Water. The main regulatory document on the quality of ambient air is the Law on the cleanliness of atmospheric air. Under the Law, the Ministry of Environment and Water conducts state policy on the protection of the clean air to ensure sustainable development, and its territorial control bodies are responsible for regional environmental and water inspections, and the municipal authorities carry out the control and management of activities related to the cleanliness of air in their territory. In accordance with the horizontal policy on the protection of public health, Regulation No 12 of 2010 has also been issued, which also regulates the establishment of alarm thresholds for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide and ozone, as well as an information threshold for ozone. Taking into account the medically proven fact that air pollution is undoubtedly damaging to human health, the Ministry of Health through its territorial structures, the regional health inspections, and the expertise of the National Centre for Public Health Protection, draw up recommendations to the municipal authorities, which should be included in the existing and updated municipal programmes for assessment and management of air quality. Effective measures that would reduce the levels of atmospheric pollutants and limit their harmful effects on the health of the population should aim at: the main regional emitters related to the implementation of the best available techniques and treatment facilities; the gasification of settlements with a view to reducing dust emissions, sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides from domestic heating; the regulation of standards on the quality of solid fuels and the efficiency of heating appliances; the afforestation of municipal terrains; the restoration and maintenance of landscaping zones; the suspension and non-regulation of unauthorised combustion of hazardous waste, and others. I would like to inform you that in fulfilling the requirements of art. 10 of the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act, the Ministry of Environment and Water, developed a National Air Pollution Control Programme 2020 - 2030, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 11 September this year - only a few days ago. The Programme provides for a number of policies and measures to be carried out to reduce emissions in the period 2020 - 2030. All state bodies and agencies are involved, their commitments to protect environmental factors and components are regulated and, hence, to protect public health. Dear Mr. Gokov, I am convinced that with joint efforts the responsible institutions, municipal and regional administrations will be able to create the necessary organization and will take joint action to improve the quality of life and provide conditions for increasing the life expectancy of the Bulgarian citizens in good health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u54	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Gokov, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u55	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. Once the research is out, I have asked both you and the Minister of Environment and Water, I will ask the same question to the Minister of Energy. Your response contained more measures taken and taken by the State in the face of the Ministry of Environment and Water, but I know that there is no way the Ministry of Health has no relation to this issue, all the more so that in July this year there is already a second case against our country before the Court of Justice of the European Union in relation to air quality by the European Commission, namely for sulphur dioxide, and that, after our country was convicted in 2017 for high standards of fine particulate matter. Perhaps I should have asked you in my question what are the results of the high content of fine particulate matter, because I will further tell you a few figures that you will not be aware of, but according to Eurostat's Annual Report on mortality in the European Union, summarize the data for 2015, Bulgaria is the head of European Union statistics on population mortality. In an average of about 1,000 deaths per 100 000 population in the European Union, in Bulgaria they are 1600. In 2019 things have hardly moved in a positive direction, rather deepened. The most common cause, along with heart attacks, strokes and cancers, is respiratory disease. Therefore, the actions of sulphur dioxide on the respiratory system as a rule are combined with the influence of the dust and a killer combination is produced. I will not stop because there is no time for life expectancy in Bulgaria, but it is good when we fight against these pollutions to have one unification of all the countries concerned. In this case, the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Energy, if you will, the Ministry of Economy, in order to be able to identify complex measures, to protect the Bulgarians and to make a little more living and a little healthier to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u56	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. The ministers are not affected countries, they are the responsible parties to the problem. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u57	Dear Mr. Gokov, this is really a horizontal policy for protecting the air and caring for the health of Bulgarian citizens. That is why we adopted the National Program a week ago at 11, in which I would ask you to open it, to see all the commitments of the institutions that are related to this process. The Ministry of Health's commitment at this stage is to provide guidance when reaching the critical point of pollution to instruct local authorities to reflect the measures we provide for in their local programmes. We really do carry out our duties absolutely strictly, but we must unite the efforts of all institutions. This I think we have achieved with the National Program and I am convinced that it will have a good effect on its implementation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u58	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We continue with a question from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Anelia Klisarova and Ilian Timchev about the state of the building chosen for the new pediatric hospital. Docent Yordanov, I see that you are heading for the stand. Come on in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u59	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! Mr. Minister, one of your main priorities, which we unanimously supported, was the construction of a National Pediatric Hospital. After long debates, emotionally at times, it was chosen and appropriate according to your team building a undeveloped building on the territory of Alexandrovska Hospital, as a result of which you continued the procedure and placed a public procurement on the basis of engineering. In the beginning, however, opinions came from competent specialists who questioned the possibilities for this building to carry out the tasks to be entrusted to it. What's this about? There were opinions that stopping the construction at the time, more than 30 years ago, was based on a sinking, on soiling in the area in which it was built. This should be established by constructive investigation. So my question to you is: before all the public procurement activities, has a constructive survey of the building been done for its capabilities, because indeed the element removing the above two floors, so as not to increase the load of the building, sounds a little like a non-specialist, not very well? If the constructive investigation is done, what are the results of it?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u60	Thank you, Professor Yordanov. Dear Minister Ananiev, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Prof. Klisarova, Associate Professor Yordanov and Dr. Timchev, the building designated as a new pediatric hospital was investigated in February 2019 and the conclusion of the constructive investigation is that the construction can be completed after the construction and reconstruction activities. It is recommended to restore the integrity of the section of the concrete elements, as well as to enhance the floor structures and the concrete pilings. Quantitative accounts for the recommended types of work are prepared and are part of the activities included in the public procurement for the construction of the design, construction and copyright supervision of the National Multiprofile Children's Hospital. The results of the constructive audit are published in an electronic file of the procurement on the website of the Ministry of Health and anyone who wants to get acquainted with them. The contract states that anyone who wants to get acquainted with the full constructive investigation can do so on site in the Ministry of Health's building throughout the time limit for submission of tenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u62	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Docent Yordanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u63	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! I'd love things to go smoothly. We will monitor because people who would wish, in their opinion, in the media, believe that the amount that is set is not enough precisely because of the need for additional measures to be taken to strengthen the building. We sincerely wish it to happen, and we will make it possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u64	Thank you. Hole, Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u65	Dear Associate Professor Yordanov, building the Children's Hospital is one of the main priorities not only of the Ministry of Health, but of a number of generations who have been waiting for its construction. The financial resources will not be an obstacle to the building of the hospital, what needs to be done will be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u66	Thank you. We continue with a question from the MPs Ilian Timchev, Anelia Klisarova and Georgi Yordanov regarding the implementation of the project. Dr. Timchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Dear Minister, in accordance with one of the priority projects of your management, the conditions for the treatment of emergency situations are to be completed by the end of the year by the end of the year by the training of about 7000 medical professionals in emergency care. My question to you is: do you think this is realistic and what is your schedule for the implementation of the project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u68	Thank you for asking, a brief question. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u69	Can I use his time?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u70	You can use part of his time, not all of it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u71	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Klisarova, if he can hear me, I don't know...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u72	Suppose he can hear you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u73	...Professor Yordanov and Dr. Timchev, Ministry of Health as a specific beneficiary of the Operational Programme The total budget of the project is 7 million. BGN, which is 100% grant. In the implementation of the activities under the Project is built and equipped National Training and Qualification Center in the Emergency Medical System established by Decree of the Council of Ministers No 239 of 2016 as a secondary authorising officer with a budget to the Minister of Health. So far all the preparatory activities have been carried out. The project includes specialized and technological equipment and furniture. A contractor has been selected to conduct trainings of the staff from the emergency services centers and of the staff from the emergency rooms. The contract with the selected contractor is to be concluded. Due to the refusal of the first-ranked participant in the public procurement with the subject matter of the guarantee of transport, it is a matter of travel, nights, meals, coffee breaks for the trainers, the Ministry of Health has announced a public contract in urgent circumstances, citing art. 74, para. 4 of the Public Procurement Act for selection of a new contractor. In order to optimize the activities and achieve additional benefits for the emergency medical care system as a result of the implementation of the project, the same was amended as before the Managing Authority Operational Program "Human Resources Development" was successfully protected additional activities such as the creation of an online remote learning system by developing specialized software to provide theoretical and practical training to participants in training, purchase of high-tech equipment and the creation of diagnostic and therapeutic protocols and algorithms. The deadline for the implementation of the project is 31 December 2019. In order to successfully implement the above-mentioned activities between the Ministry of Health and the Managing Authority, the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development 2014 " 2020" is under way, the process of signing an annex to the Treaty for Grants, with which the duration of the project will be extended until 31 December 2020. This will ensure the successful implementation of the initial and periodic training of the staff of the emergency medical care system according to the indicators set out in the Project. With regard to the project implementation schedule, I inform you that the project is currently being implemented and part of the project activities are fully completed. An analysis of the need for training of staff from the emergency medical care system has been prepared, methodology and programmes for initial and periodic training of all categories of staff from emergency medical and emergency care centres have been developed and methodologies for initial and periodic assessment of professional competence in emergency medical care have been developed. Following the conclusion of an Additional Agreement concerning the extension of the duration of the activities, the project schedule will be updated in relation to the new deadline.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u74	Thank you, Dear Minister Ananiev. Dr. Timchev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I don't know if you know this, but I have a specialty in emergency medicine and in my 17-year practice as such I have conducted two such courses organized precisely by the Ministry of Health. What you are talking about online training, and practically, I do not think it will be applicable precisely to practical improvement and acquisition of the skills that those working in emergency care should have. This should be done in such a school center and that's good. He was having trouble with this school. Is there a director of this school right now and how many people work there? I wanted to hear some kind of schedule: how are these 7,000 people going to pass through the emergency medicine system by the end of this year, saying that everything else has been accomplished? In fact, a large amount of money that will provide the household services of the posted here in Sofia to be trained is the obstacle to this training. I'm sure the study programs are done, too. Is there any danger that this project will be lost, and will the Ministry suffer any penalty for fulfilling this contract? You should also answer that because those working in the system have not even heard that there will be such a training course. Is there anything at all going to be done and so on? So I wanted to, and that was the goal of my question, too, to shed light on how far this project has come. And since this is the second or third time I've asked you this question, we'll probably extend it another year. Hopefully, by the end of this term, this project will still take place.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u76	Thank you, Dr. Timchev. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and have a look at these supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u77	Dear Doctor Timchev, I have no recollection of the period when I am in the Ministry, of having returned money to the budget or to the European Commission. So you can be sure that I won't return that money either. You can be sure that the project will be implemented. You remember, at the beginning of the term all projects in the Ministry were frozen. Now they're all running. And if it weren't for appeals under the Public Procurement Act, in three months we'd have an e-card and an electronic recipe and an electronic direction. Unfortunately, the appeals extend the deadline for the implementation of the projects, but they will be met anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u78	Thank you, Minister Ananiev. Next, a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova regarding the payment of medical devices, aids, facilities and facilities for people with disabilities by the National Health Insurance Fund, with effect from 1 January 2020. Dear Dr. Naydenova, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, fellow MPs! The budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019 made amendments and additions to Articles 23 and 45 of the Health Insurance Act, which obliges the Casa to pay medical supplies, aids, gadgets and facilities for people with disabilities. In this regard, I ask you, Minister, to answer me: Will the deadline laid down in § 43 be fulfilled? 3 of the National Fund's Budget Act for 2019? What is the readiness of the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund to implement the legal texts related to art. Art. 23, Art. 45 of the Health Insurance Act, and are additional legal changes necessary?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u80	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Naydenova! The Ministry of Health has taken the necessary organisational and preparatory actions in order to implement and implement the Articles 23 and 45 of the Health Insurance Act, including in the implementation of § 9 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Persons with Disabilities, according to which the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund jointly establish and validate the mechanisms and standards under art. 73, para. 3 of the same law by the end of September 2019 An Interdepartmental Working Group has been established with a task on the basis of art. 73, para. 4 of the Law on Persons with Disabilities to develop a mechanism and standards for the quality of the aids, gadgets, facilities and medical devices for people with disabilities under art. 73, para. 3 of the same law, as well as to analyse the need to initiate other regulatory changes to ensure the conditions for applying the financing approach and providing assistance, devices, facilities and medical devices for disabled persons to be implemented by the health care system from 1 January 2020. The Interdepartmental Working Group includes representatives of the Ministry of Health, the National Health Insurance Fund, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Social Assistance Agency, the Agency for Persons with Disabilities and the Drug Executive Agency. The experience, difficulties and problems faced by the social system in providing assistance, gadgets, facilities and medical devices for people with disabilities, as well as the circumstances requiring the transfer of funding to the health system are discussed. They've looked at the schedules in art. 73, para. 4 of the Law on Disabled People's Concepts of Mechanism and Standards for the Quality of Aids, Appliances, Facilities and Medical Products. Based on the analysis and on the experience gained, difficulties, problems in providing assistance, devices, facilities and medical devices for people with disabilities, the relevant regulatory changes relating to the financing and their provision in the National Health Insurance Fund shall be drawn up. The mechanisms and standards for the quality of the aids, fittings, facilities and medical devices for people with disabilities under art. 73, para. 3 of the Law on Persons with Disabilities will be published on the website of the Ministry of Health for Public Consultations within the statutory deadline. Currently the same are finalized as changes in the respective two regulations, namely the Ordinance under art. 30a, para. 4 of the Law on Medical Devices and the Ordinance under art. 45, para. 9 of the Health Insurance Act. At this stage, the need to legalise the provision under art. 73, para. 3 of the Law on Persons with Disabilities and the corresponding amendment with a proposed final provision in the Draft Law amending the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, proposing the exact indication in the provision of regulations which should include mechanisms and standards. The public discussion of the Bill ended on 18 September 2019. Its finalisation and its submission for approval to the Council of Ministers is forthcoming. The Ministry of Health will take the necessary measures to ensure the implementation of art. Art. 23, Art. 45 of the Health Insurance Act so that it enters into force from 1 January 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u82	Thank you, Minister Ananiev. Dr. Naydenova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u83	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear colleagues, you have heard that the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, as well as the National Health Insurance Fund are legally ready for this process. Dear Minister, I would also like to draw your attention to something else and allow myself to do something a little more modest, and it is: is the National Health Insurance Fund a purely administrative readiness to face this challenge? Personally, I believe that this readiness has not yet been met, as we know that the National Health Insurance Fund is located mostly in pavilion rooms, on a pavilion basis, not to mention that some structures are still located in apartments for rent. My colleagues and I have concerns about how from January people with disabilities will stand, if there are such built waiting rooms, in the National Health Insurance Fund, so that they can get the things they are legally entitled to. One more thing, I'll go further. I think we should prepare for better service from now on, because complaints will arise, control issues will arise, with the sanctions that the Casa must exercise. That is why I believe that your attention should not be missed in this regard. We are ready to support everything from a legislative point of view, but we will ask the other part so that people can be welcomed as it is right for us to be ready.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u84	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Mr. Minister, you don't want to take advantage of the right to the doppelganger. We continue with the next question by the National Representative Valentina Naydenova on future actions in the stabilization of the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. Here you go. You have the floor again.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u85	Dear Minister, you have taken too many measures to stabilize a multi-profile hospital for active treatment.Professor Paraskev Stoyanov I ask you to answer the following question: are you planning to privatize separate parts and activities in the same hospital?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u86	Thank you very much for a quick and clear question. We are waiting for your answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Naydenova, Multi-profile Hospital for Active Treatment suppl. Prof. Paraskev Stoyanov "JSC" is a medical institution, a commercial company with mixed state and municipal participation in which the state owns 69.92 percent of the capital and the rest is distributed among the municipalities of the region. The terms and procedures for implementing a privatisation procedure are regulated in the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. With regard to commercial companies with State participation in the capital in art. 1, para. 2 of the Law defines the term "privatization', namely: "transfer through sale of Bulgarian natural or legal persons with less than 50 per cent State and/or municipal participation in capital, or of foreign persons of shares or shares owned by the State or municipalities by commercial companies; shares or shares owned by commercial companies with more than 50 per cent State participation in the capital of other commercial companies; separate parts of the property of commercial companies with more than 50 per cent state or municipal participation in capital; shares of the property of commercial companies whose capital is owned by other commercial companies with more than 50 per cent state participation in the capital. I pointed out all the options that the Law of Privatization and Post-Privatization Control envisions. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that all the medical institutions of the European Union with more than 50 per cent of state participation in capital are included in the Privatization List according to art. 3, para. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, the order for the sale of separate parts of them is imperatively arranged in art. 28 paragraphs 9 and 10 of the same. In addition.............................................................................. 2 of § 2 of the Additional Provisions of this Law also defines the concept of a part of the medical establishment. It is one that is not directly connected or through it is not carried out a medical activity of the same medical establishment and can independently carry out business, real estate, as well as unfinished construction sites of the medical establishment. Finally, on the subject that interests you most. In view of the above, I inform you that the Ministry of Health has not initiated a procedure for the sale of separate parts, real estate of the Hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u88	Thank you, Minister Ananiev. Dr. Naydenova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u89	Thank you for replying that there is no initiated procedure for privatisation in Lovech Hospital, especially that we are already seeing the first decisions of the Council of Ministers to sell assets to the Ministry of Health in this direction and this was the reason to ask you this question. I have not received an answer for future privatisation of activities anymore because the assets are one and the activities are another. You only told me and answered me about the assets that such privatisation or divisions are not foreseen. What will happen to the activities? I will not set an example of what was forbidden, which has been stopped by you since you are a minister, for which we all thank you at the Vratsa Hospital. However, the process for privatizing activities is also possible in those hospitals that are most threatened, this could happen, and that is why the second part of my question was also in terms of privatization for activities, which I would like to hear a serious answer about there too.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u90	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. You are welcome for an answer, Minister Ananiev, regarding the privatisation of activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u91	Dear Dr. Naydenova, at this stage there is no chance or action by the Ministry of Health to carry out privatization activities. This does not mean that we, together with the management of the hospital, together with the public in the city, will not discuss an issue of optimizing activities and increasing the effectiveness of these activities, but we do not intend to privatize activities at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u92	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There is a question from the MP Stanislav Vladimirov concerning the state of emergency medical care centres in Pernik region. Here you are, dear Mr. Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, once again I will ask you a question regarding the state of emergency medical care in Pernik. Unfortunately, almost nothing has changed for the better since the beginning of the mandate until today. The territory of Pernik district operates five emergency centres in the municipalities of Pernik, Radomir, Trun, Zemen and Breznik. They continue to have outdated equipment, which is extremely insufficient, and there is a shortage of ambulances and specialists. The problems of the emergency centers in the small municipalities are deepening, and the possibility of the Emergency Medical Center in Pernik to function normally helps only that it is located in the building of the Multiprofile Hospital Rahila Angelova. In the emergency centers in Trun, Zemen, Breznik and Radomir there are doctors who are not mobile when the ambulance is at the address. Therefore, access not only to hospital but also to emergency aid to the inhabitants of small municipalities is extremely difficult. It is often necessary to drive the sick with personal cars more than 50 km to the district hospital. Despite all requests to improve the level of emergency assistance in Pernik by you and the director of the Centre for Emergency Medical in Pernik, people are often unable to receive adequate assistance. Dear Minister, once again I ask you the question: will measures be taken to improve the material base of the emergency medical centers in Pernik district? What and when?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u94	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. Minister Ananiev, come in. You have the floor to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vladimirov, Center for Emergency Medical Assistance "Pernik," was established by Decree No 195 of 11 October 1995. The same is structured with five emergency medical services branches revealed in the cities of Pernik, Radomir, Zemen, Breznik and Trun. [[Noise and lines.]] In order to ensure urgent medical care at the Center are structured eight mobile teams.. one transport medical team and four stationary teams, revealed in the branches where there are no hospital care facilities with exposed emergency wards. In order to carry out its activities, the Emergency Medical Center is equipped with 18 ambulances, 10 of them are essential, with which mobile teams perform their daily duty, and eight are spare; 14 of the ambulances were purchased in 2007, 2008 and 2009; two in 2015 and two in this year. The Centre's management has distributed available ambulances in accordance with the ground conditions for each emergency medical care subsidiary. The allocation of two ambulances for each subsidiary outside the town of Pernik allows adequate emergency medical care to be provided to the serviced population at any time of the day. Available medical equipment in ambulances and stationary teams is sufficient for diagnostics and resuscitation actions. Each ambulance contains an EKG, defibrillator, mechanical ventilation apparatus, aspirator, resuscitation bag, oxygen installation, glucomer, pulsoxymeter. The wrong impression has been created that the available medical equipment is old and depreciated, but due to its low workload in the subsidiary of the Pernik region, it is completely viable and usable. Analyzing the state of the material base and human resources in the emergency medical care system by the Ministry of Health, concrete measures were taken, namely: to improve the pay of workers in the emergency medical care system within the Ministry's budget for the period 2015 to 2019, an annual increase of 63% compared to the baseline in 2014. A large investment project in support of development in the emergency medical care system has been developed to improve the material base, which will implement the construction of new, renovated and reconstructed buildings in which emergency medical centers are located and a comprehensive change of the fleet and medical equipment in it. A new building is planned for the Centre in Pernik in the courtyard of the district hospital, where the administration of the Center and the Emergency Medical Philariat will be located. For the rest of the subsidiaries in Radomir, Zemen, Breznik, Trun, is envisaged the reconstruction and reconstruction of existing buildings. The project provides for delivery of 9 ambulances with fully equipped medical equipment allocated to all mobile teams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u96	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mr. Vladimirov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u97	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister! Dear Minister, it is no accident that I started my question by asking you this question once again within two years and there is no difference in your answer. The only difference is that mobile teams have dropped from 14 to 11 and the trend is not as positive as you say it is. I know that this is a problem throughout Bulgaria, but in Pernik district we closed all hospitals and remained only the Regional Hospital Rahila Angelova. And you can imagine, especially small settlements that are far away from the district center, what obstacles they go through to be able to receive adequate help. Their only chance is through emergency aid and what you are given once again by Pernik as information is not that there are equipped ambulances that there are teams that can constantly react. In small municipalities, if the team is at an ambulance address, if there is a possible team, it is not mobile. And for the project that you once again answer to me, I've been listening for two years. Two years ago, you're telling me that the project is moving very well. It expires 2020. It's only after... [[Department of Minister Kiril Ananiev.]] Two years you've been answering me... For the answer, I'll take out the transcript...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u98	Please don't engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u99	Okay, from February 2018, excuse me, year and seven months! February 2018 is the first answer. I hope, it is good that Mr. Borisov is here at the moment, in his backpack really a little more specifically to answer me, because the role of the MP when asking a question to the Minister is to be able to then, by going to his region, we actually respond specifically to the questions they ask us on a daily basis. I hope you'll be more specific in the back, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u100	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u101	In a previous reply I had the opportunity to tell you that when I entered this post, all the projects at the Ministry of Health were frozen. Within a very short period of time, I was able to recover and not lose any lev European money, only to implement these projects, and to protect people's health. For Pernik we have specially prepared the public procurement, which is related to the repair, construction and reconstruction of these buildings, which I have just told you about. The ambulances are given on schedule, for the equipment that will be equipped and for the centers themselves, the public procurement will run and the winner will be announced in due time, respectively, who will perform this order. It is not my fault that there is no public procurement in Bulgaria that does not mourn. The mourning procedure leads to the fact that projects are a few months late and not to say sometime and a year later. The entire organization of the Ministry has been made, everything will be done properly, we have no complaint that any man has been injured, God forbid, with a fatal end because emergency medical care in Pernik County has not done its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u102	Thank you, dear Minister. We continue with a question from the National Representative Anton Kutev to Mr. Boyko Borisov, Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. You have the floor, dear Mr. Kutev, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u103	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister! I'll start asking with a little story. Just four or five years ago, in 2015, in one of the broadcasts your then chief of staff, Rumyana Bachvarova, spoke about this about the Bulgarian-Russian relations and how your position is changing during this time. So I start out like this, talking with quite unexpected pride that Prime Minister Boyko Borisov stopped three major energy projects for the pipeline, oil pipeline and nuclear project. She said: "This is a strong political action that cannot be appreciated by our world partners, this is an extremely important solution and says a lot of other things, I will not dwell on them. A few months later, in front of the American Chamber of Commerce, you say the same thing. To quote: We have recognized Hezbollah as a terrorist organization, we have stopped three major Russian projects, we have stopped Russian planes over the sea and so on. This is the beginning, there must have been your speeches before, but I don't want to go back. This is the beginning from which we are starting. Meanwhile, this thing managed to provoke even Lavrov's reaction to Russia's foreign minister, who says he is amazed at how people mean you, are not ashamed of such statements and that he would be ashamed of your country, in front of the citizens of his country. I say this because apparently from then on, from 2015 to 2017 some part of your Russophile essence has spoken because things have changed sharply. In 2017, by the way, there began a process of very stable warm-up of relations with Russia, which is obviously a state process, because apart from your visits, which are extremely important, and your meetings, which you personally made during this period, there were meetings of President Radev and the President of the National Assembly and in general they showed a completely different attitude towards Russia and the Russian projects. This has obviously produced a result because I am convinced that this political activity and attitude towards the Russian side have been targeted and we are now seeing the result, because to date we have a real chance to resume at least two of these suspended projects. One of them, of course, is the project for NPP "Belene" and the more important one is what they call a Turkish stream, and we call a Balkan stream in one part. Obviously, it is coming and there are opportunities to be launched, for which I congratulate you. I think this warm-up is important. I would like to point out that the question of relations with Russia on my part has nothing to do with what is usually speculated with a change of Euro-Atlantic orientation and similar memories. I would like to emphasise that BSP is the party where we entered the European Union and Prime Minister Stanishev was then the one who signed the treaties. We were involved in having a NATO orientation. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. In this regard, I would like to ask you the question: where are Bulgarian-Russian relations going, especially in the context of your highly variable geopolitical attitudes, as we have seen so far?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Dear Mr. Borisov, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u105	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Kutev, perhaps over the years we have made all sorts of speeches with you from Sofia Municipality, and if we go back to them, who knows what else we can read, but I always, when I am in Parliament, accept the well-meaning part of the question or what should happen to the state. Yes, there was such a period, and if I had to return you to it, we didn't know then how much the escalation index was, how much the plant would cost, we had huge obligations and an arbitration court in Paris. We didn't have a signed contract to know what the price would be and how expensive it would be in time. That's why we were against it. At the moment, 12 offers have been submitted, but several of them really deserve our attention, because, on the one hand, are the State Energy Company, the South Korean Nuclear and a consortium, which was assembled by.. Rosatom, because we paid our reactors during that time, we saved 90 million interest rates. In fact, the hypothesis is now quite different from before for Belene. We have two Bulgarian reactors, our own, of the state. And it is joined by Rosatom, because without them it can not be built, as carriers of the project technology, General Electric with its turbines "Arabella" and its own funding, "FranAtom" is the former "A" and the state company of France, and a German company. I'm not gonna dwell on this anymore so they won't say that we have any interference in the three-step negotiations that are flowing between these companies. And as Denis Manturov said yesterday: just wonderfully assembled projects. Then we can think, come to Parliament and ask you: how much and how much to participate in a project like this - minority, majority, golden action - should we participate in money, should we not participate? We can make this decision for ten years to come, so Parliament will take it. This is under the NPP of Belene and you see that on the Bulgarian-Russian mixed trade commission the results, except that they were good and excellent, and all their representatives spoke extremely flatteringly and did not even want me to put the topic, not that they did not put it, we are not talking about spy scandals, Russophiles and the like. As far as South Stream is concerned, you know why it was stopped, and I'm not going to comment on it so I don't bother, but practically the enormous pressure of both the US and most of the countries in Europe, and against Nord Stream 2, and against South Stream, made it impossible. We have made great efforts both President Putin and Prime Minister Medvedev and respectively with colleagues from Saudi Arabia, so that the project can be assembled so that the pipes carry them along the route. It's actually being built today. The deadline is very short until 1 January. I also think that colleagues in Serbia will not succeed, depends on what winter will be, but anyway, as you said, it started for over a billion euros. There will be trials, or as the finance minister told me in the morning: at least we will take VAT for the benefit of the state. In addition, it was key and we call it "Balkan" because it passes through the territory of Bulgaria, passes through Serbia, through Hungary goes to Austria, and there are opportunities to increase its capacity. And Balkan sounds so much better than Turkish. Not that I have anything against Turkey's name, not to misunderstand me, but our gas hub is called "Balkan" and the whole strategy is for joining the Balkans to the European Union and somehow the word Balkans in Europe is very positive. That's why we call it a Balkan stream to tie it to a gas hub, which is authorised by the European Commission. The only problem we have not to go back to religious, cultural, historical and all the other things you know, even today in Silistra there is a tourist Bulgarian-Russian forum, is the problem that your governments have always put on the Russian side, that is with the licenses of the weapons factories. And I am convinced that also colleague Stoinev, if we ask him, will not distort his soul, that they have always put this question, we have always separated him. Once again we have put it in place, but one day, Mr. Kutev, we must sit down and say what compromise can be reached between us and the Russian Federation on this topic, because it is certainly over 14 years, perhaps more, this is an unsolvable problem. Another unresolved, unsolvable, even just two weeks ago in Turkmenistan and Prime Minister Medvedev were together, the best possible relationship we have with the United States as we have with Europe and with all the countries in the Balkans. We are trying to maintain a balanced policy. If you would allow me to use the time as well, because within a few days it was the Greek Foreign Minister and Interior Minister, indeed the problem of migration and the threat that is going on, since Turkey no longer wants to, since the European Union is not paying for the detention of migrants there. The colleague Mladen Marinov said that 440 have entered today.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u106	Until 11:00.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u107	By 11:00, the pressure is now entirely on Greece. To us the Turks respect their commitment, we have zero migration. That is why the Greeks are coming to do everything they can to help, to see how we can solve this problem. Obviously, Europeans are focused on the average Mediterranean, Italy, and very little attention is paid to what is happening at the border and the Aegean Sea with Greece and Turkey. But I'm saying it's today. Thank you. If there are any questions, I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u108	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. You have the floor for further questions, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, Mr. Borisov, Bulgarian-Russian relations have many dimensions. For better or worse, we have both cultural and historical overlays, as you said, so I don't think all of this can be started or done with the Balkan stream or the nuclear power plant. That is why I have raised the question now, because, without questioning the Euro-Atlantic integration of Bulgaria, which for no one and never for the BSP has been questioned and I do not think it will be, for me, relations with Russia are important precisely in the context of Euro-Atlantic integration, because Bulgaria can, as a member of NATO and of the European Union, achieve many things in a dialogue with Russia, which for many countries in Europe is impossible. That's the point of my asking you right now. So far so good, we brought it in kind of, we denied it, we vowed, and then we ended up here. The question is, how do we move on? So what are those steps we are going to take? Because outside the Turkish stream, or the Balkan stream, as we call it, outside the nuclear power plant, we have tourism. With the forum in Silistra we will not solve the problems of tourism and the decline of Russian tourists for Bulgaria is obvious for this year. We have an industry that doesn't go there. We're trading. There's a bunch of stuff about the real state right now. And they are a matter of conversation and of good relations. And if there is a country in Europe that, in fact, can now, within the framework of Euro-Atlantic integration, maintain any relationship with Russia that will help it and Europe, because I think, for example, the issue of sanctions is a European problem, it is preventing not only Bulgaria, it is hindering many countries in Europe. So my question is: what are the specific things that we are going to continue with? So far, with two years of international visits, we've been going well, you've done a good job, there's results. But we still have a lot of work to do. This does not limit the amount of opportunities of our economy, the question of our security, we talked about it two or three weeks ago with Mrs. Zaharieva. These questions do not end this way. So my specific question to you is: how do we proceed further, including on the issue of sanctions? And how is it going to happen in the context of this talk, because I see that there is tension, it is clear that there is tension and periodically whether the Foreign Ministry will make any strange statement for me that does not make sense... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. ...in the context of everything, I don't know why, if it suddenly turns out that the DANS and the Ministry of Interior are gonna make some weird arrests for professors and publishers. It's not the same policy. That's why it's about you, not the Foreign Minister, because it's about you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u110	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. You have the floor to answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u111	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Kutev, the issue of sanctions is not in Bulgaria's power and if someone thinks that they can move it to drop sanctions, it deceives people. Many countries are speaking against sanctions, but absolutely everyone is voting in the Council for sanctions, without exception. Sjec has a little hypocrisy, I can call it outside the media the leaders of large European countries... By the way, Austria tried to make such mediation, and you saw what happened to it. One day maybe you will succeed, but now I must say that we will make the sanctions fall, that is naive and I wouldn't say it. Even more so, many processes are underway. I think relations with the new President of Ukraine and the Russian Federation are slightly normalizing. If the Minsk agreements are respected, then the sanctions will fall. But you can see that at the moment the world, the big countries are being bombarded with sanctions against each other: the States of China, China, the United States of America, Russia, and similar Europe, Russia. This in any case, as you say, has an enormous impact on both trade and relations. Even this stream wouldn't have happened if we hadn't embroidered it, or as the Russian ambassador said, you could ask him a grandmaster move. Yesterday or the day before when they were with me. Otherwise, it wouldn't have happened. Russia's main pipe manufacturer is on the blackest list, and they make the best pipes. Let me move in some frames where we don't tear down something that's done with so much work. I am convinced that your fellow Members, who are on your side of the Chamber, have made great efforts and know what and how it can happen. So let us, as you have said, evaluate what has been done so far and try in our foreign trade relations mainly now discuss the Novorossiysk version Burgas, a ferry to be launched so that Russian tourists, or Russians who have purchased housing in Bulgaria, can easily come on vacation with cars. That's what they put on the Russian side, and we'll do everything we can to make it happen. So as long as sanctions apply, many of our options are limited. He's very interested in pharmaceuticals. We have a very good relationship, and there we need to focus, in my opinion, on our private companies that we have, because this is a great opportunity. A visit is being made to the Russian president next year in connection with the 140th anniversary... I think that by then we can get ahead of other topics that might become good. So this is not at all about Euro-Atlantic orientations or that someone is violating them. We have always said that Europe and NATO are our strategic partners and we are doing everything we can to keep it in full. We have done a lot more in favor of the Russian Federation, I will not comment on them. Their leadership highly appreciates them. As you can see, there were no reactions, including the spy scandal. And Krasi Velchev is present at Koprinka, as far as I know. So pragmatically, exactly, based on mutual benefit, we continue to work further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u112	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. You have the floor to express yourself, dear Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u113	Dear Mr. Borisov, colleagues, Mr. Chairman! I come back to the fact that my question was asked with the idea that, in particular, relations with great powers, such as Russia, must be lasting and a consistency in these relations is extremely important. I mean, I wanted to hear your intentions today. What I heard, basically, yes, you confirm the intention of good development there. I hope so, because turning back and turning back lead to a deterioration of our interests. While South Stream was talking about 63 billion. Cube. m gas per year, this is the case at the Balkan Stream, already at 15 billion. Cube. We're talking about four times less gas, and that's only to our detriment. How could it happen, how it couldn't happen, this story will judge, but it probably won't. The point is that incoherence of positions, when we go back or when we disinfect ourselves on some occasion, always harms. In this regard, however, I am proposing to you, we have not accidentally tabled a proposal from the National Assembly, for sanctions, in which we do not provide for any commitments at all for the Council of Ministers and for you. But, like France, for example, and the French Parliament are against sanctions, it is one thing to declare yourself inside, in parliament, against sanctions and to say that this is a gesture to Russia, and it, by the way, does not lead to your obligation to remove sanctions in Europe, but it is a gesture that is indicative enough. And as you say, for the head of radio, you can tell your parliamentary group, to which you claim to be chairman, in the same way you should be able to do so about sanctions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u114	I am chairman of the chairman of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u115	Yeah, it's okay. Okay, I agree, as long as she's okay with it. [[Radio.]] My appeal to you is to use this power, power and will to take this important step forward. The proposal to repeal the sanctions must enter, I hope, in the coming week this depends on the majority and the President of the National Assembly. Once again, this is Parliament's position on lifting sanctions. This does not lead to commitments before the European Union. Yours, but it leads to a clear definition of priorities on our part and to an opinion on how Bulgaria should continue on. So this is what I think you should and should do from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u116	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Thank you for participating today in the control, dear Mr. Borisov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u117	Dear Mr. Kutev, I'm using here to answer you on the radio. I am chairman of the chair of the parliamentary group and as chairman of the party. So let's not play with these things. I can't, since I'm chairman of the party, not be able to tell the party we've broadcast in parliament, our opinions or anything. It's the same with you, I guess. It's like this everywhere. Regarding the National Radio, I have asked the Chair of the Parliamentary Group to support you, and I propose, if you can vote in this House, that the Court of Auditors also enter the National Radio to see how the funds are spent there over the years, because it is an independent organisation and can do so while the investigation is underway and the prosecution. So today we can finish this topic and not pick on each other. We have turned off microphones, please, give Mrs. Ninova, too, just because the President of the European Commission has not entered her duties, the Italians had not yet sent a commissioner, did not want to answer any questions in order not to create any problem in Europe. Otherwise microphones are never taken away every day to say that this was a dictatorship on a day when the President of the European Commission came to hear our opinion and to propose something by portfolio. As far as sanctions are concerned to Russia. Let our President also meet with the presidents of our coalition partners, talk to them, and if we have a common opinion, Parliament can make its own decision as it should. But first, talk to them. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u118	Thank you. We are continuing with a question for Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva, Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs. She will answer a question from the MP Stanislav Stanilov concerning a message of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria. You have the floor, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! My question has a nearly three-week statute of limitations, but the event for which I ask you this question remains and manifests itself in the context of the Prime Minister's previous response. Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, in the communication of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria regarding the intention of the Russian Embassy to open in the Russian Cultural Centre an exhibition titled "Seventy-five years since the liberation of Eastern Europe from Nazism" you state that you have no relation to the event and do not take a position in support of the historical thesis. You also say that 9 September and its consequences should remain known to historians and historical science, and you do the opposite. Until the end of the message, you deal only with this and the only problem and assess certain facts as clear, i.e. the 9th-September coup, the temporary occupation of Bulgaria by the SSR, its allies and the consequences for Bulgaria of the above event. In this regard, please answer me what does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria want with this message, which is neither in form nor in content, consistent with the principles of maintaining friendly relations between two countries in the interests of the Bulgarian people and its legitimacy in the Russian society? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u120	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u121	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Stanilov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! You are right that there is a connection to both the previous question and a question two weeks ago from Mr. Kutev regarding security. I would like to start by saying that you are absolutely right that the developments of friendly relations should be based on mutual cooperation and with mutual respect for the interests, especially with neighbouring and close countries of our country, including Russia. This is a priority task of Bulgarian foreign policy. That is precisely why I believe that it is necessary to stop imposing a dividing line on the Russia axis on Bulgaria, and on historical topics for which the Bulgarian Parliament, I stress, many years ago, namely 9 September 1944, has taken a clear attitude. I assure you that the Bulgarian government has a desire to be a friend, on the basis of mutual respect for sovereignty, mutual interest, non-interference in the domestic life of another country, respect and respect for the differences in positions regarding the assessments of the facts and events of the past. I think it's high time we stopped dividing the country into any filets and phobias. The position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs explicitly recognises the Soviet Union's huge role in defeating Nazi Germany during World War II. I'm not questioning the outcome of the war as there were interpretations in some, I would say, ill-advised comments. There is no hint of any doubt in the anti-human, criminal nature of the national socialist regime in Germany and its governance. There is no question about the crimes committed by this regime against humanity and war crimes. The declaration is aimed at a concrete action which we believe is crossing the limit of the permitted by representatives of another country. It is about organizing an event involving a unilateral and incorrect interpretation of the interpretation of facts and events of our history, which, unfortunately, still have a discussion character and not so much among our historians, because for historians things are clear, but rather are subject to internal political debates and different assessments of political parties. It concerns in particular the way it is organised and the date of the organizing of the exhibition. If it was May 9th, we wouldn't have reacted. As I said, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had no option but to react, and it is organised so that it is contrary to the legal position of the Bulgarian State on the subject. It was no accident that the embassy itself changed the title of the exhibition after our reaction. Let me remind you: The National Assembly by law has given its assessment of these events and their consequences to the Bulgarian state. This is the Law for declaring the communist regime in Bulgaria criminal. The law dates back to May 5, 2000, long before the political party GERB existed. The legislator has clearly indicated what this regime is................................................................................................. 1, para. 1 and para. 2. In para. 2 is used the word that from 9 September 1944 to 10 November 1989 the government of the Bulgarian Communist Party led the country to a national catastrophe. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This is a Law passed by the National Assembly, and I quote the text of the Law... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In 2000, your party was then in parliament. Moreover, on 9 September 2004, the year when the communist regime was established in Bulgaria was 60 years old, the National Assembly adopted a much sharper declaration than the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said. There are used words such as oppression, incompetence, violence, mass murder and so on. Let me finish with this: I think that the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry is obliged to react when there are attempts to take a position or interfere with the domestic policy of the country, of any country, and this should not in any way interfere with friendly relations. On the contrary, when you express a position of national interest, others should respect you more. The Bulgarian Foreign Ministry has reacted twice before this to statements related to the Bulgarian history related to the rescue of the Bulgarian Jews and the Bulgarian alphabet by Russian statements. As you can see, this has not led to a deterioration in relations, on the contrary, I think it has led to mutual respect. It has reacted to other countries as well and will continue to react regardless of who and which country they come from. I stress that it is high time we stopped creating a dividing line, and it is during a period during which the Bulgarian National Assembly ruled by law in 2000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u122	Thank you. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u123	Dear Minister, I think it wasn't me who got confused. It was you. Russia is not a communist state either in this exhibition, and in all subjects it does not plead for the introduction of communism, for any communist ideology. Yes, you are! The fact that the Soviet Union was then a communist state and that in all the European countries in which the Soviet army had taken over, not in all, of course, but in some, because not all remained communist, it was not only her work, but also the work of its Western allies, who at the Yalten Conference had just shared Europe, now to constantly speculate that the Russians had introduced communism into Bulgaria, it was pure speculation with those sacrifices which the Russian people had given for the liquidation of fascism 50 million. Russian society is an imperial society to this day. It is extremely sensitive to such invasions and when you say: we advise the Russian Embassy edi-what you are, an anti-Bulgarian campaign broke out in Russia. The bulgarophobes rise up and start cursing not me, not you, not the MPs, but they curse Bulgaria. They're just like that! You in a sense gave me some advice on these interpretations. And I advise you not to pull the Russian bear by the tail! Those moves are unnecessary. I know Russian society. I am Vice-President of the National Movement Roussofils. I know Russian society well historically. I didn't really study in Russia, I'm not a Russian graduate, I had nothing to do with it, but my russophilia didn't come from any emotions from the Liberation and so on, and so on, it's a result of profoundly philosophical, historical knowledge of this problem. Bulgaria has always had one face in the West and one in the East and its welfare and prosperity has always depended on how it plays its cards in this position. I think Mr. Borisov said a few clear stories here and his stories, and what happened here, and this conversation is contrary to this declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u124	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u125	And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u126	A hole, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u127	Professor Stanilov, I wouldn't exactly call it the backdrop. I never said Russia was a communist state, the Russian Federation at the moment. It is no coincidence in my speech that the exhibition and the reaction was because of the date, which is clearly, with regret, I say, still about the Bulgarian society, although from an international and historical point of view, it is clear.. 9 September 1944 is the name of the exhibition. If it were on 9 May, I stress again the Day of Victory, the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry would not react. In no case do I believe that when the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry defends non-interference in domestic politics and obviously taking sides of one of the hypotheses and interpretations for the period of 45 years, organizing an exhibition on 9 September, we cannot fail to react. I stress that in no way has this reaction been linked to denying the huge role and sacrifice that the Russian people have made to save the world from the atrocities of Nazi Germany, on the contrary, with this beginning our opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u128	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. Thank you for your participation in control today. We continue with the last question to Minister Ananiev. He is from the National Representative Anton Kutev and is about reimbursing oxygen therapy at home. You have the floor, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, on this matter we have already spoken with representatives of the Ministry a year and a half ago in my opinion. Then it was one of the deputy ministers, and I remember trying to get under the influence of several non-governmental organizations to put the issue of oxygen therapy in the home. The same organizations, by the way, have only recently tried to get information about what the number is. Because in order to talk about reimbursing and at all about the financial parameters of a state's responsibility to this problem, we need to have clear ideas about volume. It turns out that, at least for now, I don't know if anyone has responded to them, nor has the NOI been able to tell them how much, nor the Ministry. So the first and main thing is to figure out what the volume is and how many people need it. For me there is no doubt about the many meetings with organizations, including the meetings with the Ministry, which we made within the Committee on Interaction with NGOs, that reimbursing is useful for society. If it is done by the state and if it is done in any order, it will actually cost much less than it costs to all these individual citizens who are doing it. That is, in reality, we will save public resources. The state will pay for it, not the citizens, but this is important. Moreover, often these appliances are too expensive for people who are in need of them. The lack of oxygen is extremely painful and it really confuses the whole way of life. So, the issue is very important to achieve reimbursing. As a matter of fact, at this meeting some time ago, I remember very well that one of the Deputy Ministers who was present there made a commitment that the Ministry could take steps to do so and I honestly expected the last budget, i.e. the 2019 budget to be implemented, to do so. So, my question to you is: what is the volume of the problem, how many people need, how much it costs and how can it move within the next budgetary procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u130	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u131	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kutev, the National Health Insurance Fund has taken concrete action in relation to the payment of oxygen treatment at home, namely: 1. Following an application from the Association of Bulgarians suffering from asthma, allergy and COPD, as well as an application from the Association of Mukovicispods.The Association of Parents of Children with Epilepsy and the National Alliance of People with Rare Diseases is proposed to be included in the list of NHIFs of Reimbursing. 2. In relation to these applications, the inclusion of these medical devices in the specification for medical devices in the outpatient aid adopted by Decision of the Supervisory Board of the NHIF on 18 December 2018 has been approved. After negotiation with manufacturers and distributors, wholesalers, oxygen concentraters are included in the list of medical devices by groups which the NHIF pays under the conditions of outpatient medical care drawn up in accordance with Regulation No 10, in force from 1 January 2019. The group shall be defined as: supposed NHIF to pay for the use of these oxygen concentraters under the conditions of art. 14, para. 5 of Ordinance No 10, according to which the NHIF pays no earlier than six months after the entry into force of the list, i.e. the payment of the cost of oxygen therapy after 1 December 2019, and the process of the preparation of medical criteria and algorithm for monitoring patients in the conduct of oxygen therapy is ongoing. 3. In relation to the preparation of the medical criteria and algorithm for the follow-up of the members of the expert council on pneumology and phthsiatry defined by Order No-one to the Minister of Health, a letter was sent to the Minister of Health asking for an opinion on the determination of objective criteria for the initiation and conduct of oxygen therapy; the types of clinical, laboratory and imaging studies with specific parameters; the definition of monitoring and monitoring regime for the effect and condition of the patient; specialist; speciality; level of competence; periodicity and volume of certain studies; the estimated number of patients for the 3-year period 2020 - 2022, suitable for oxygen therapy; information on consensus and pharmacotherapeutic guides in which this therapeutic strategy is included national, European or international. Based on the adoption of an opinion on such issues, the start of the payment of medical devices for oxygen therapy from 1 December 2019. In the forthcoming negotiations on the LDC 2020 - 2022, opportunities will also be sought to finance this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u132	Thank you. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u133	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, if I have understood everything you have told me correctly, in a matter in which I do not claim to understand much, I should, in fact, by the end of this year at least be reimbursed and entered into a procedure that will already provide funding. This means that, after all, we have managed to achieve some results within this year and a half. I want to thank you for that, because it's important. I hope it really starts because, you know, it's a common subject with lung transplants, in which, unfortunately, despite our joint efforts, we managed to bring, as far as I know, only one transplant, then they stopped, and yet this issue lies before you. I dealt with the issue in the context of these transplants actually because they are directly related to these diseases and the people who suffer are the same. As for now, obviously, the problem of transplants will tighten and it will require much more time and work, unfortunately, which costs human lives, at least this, if we manage to finish by the end of the year, will be a step forward that is important for all patients. I really hope we can solve this problem by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u134	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. A hole? No. Thank you for your participation in control today, Mr. Minister. We are continuing with a question to Mr. Mladen Marinov, Minister of the Interior. He is from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva and is about the Bulgarian identity documents, organization in the Ministry of Interior and fast and quality service. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Halacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! I asked my question, based on the information released in the media that the validity of the identity documents of a large number of Bulgarian citizens expires to 500 thousand in this year, to a million and six hundred thousand in 2020, to a million hexaths and eighty thousand in 2021. The risk of repeating the mass clusters from 2010 is enormous. Such shift waves are available every 10 years in Bulgaria, because most documents issued in the period 1999 - 2001 have a period of validity of 10 years. In 2015, in my constituency, it turned out that in order to obtain a new ID, you had to get a two-day leave. Also recently in digital space leaked the personal data of millions of Bulgarian citizens, which motivates them to change their personal documents. Therefore, my question to you is: has an organization been established for fast and quality service of this large number of Bulgarian citizens to avoid queues and other difficulties in issuing new personal documents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u136	Thank you, dear Mrs. Halacheva. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u137	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Halacheva, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! First of all, I would like to thank you for your question and the importance of the subject you are putting. In view of the expected significant increase in the number of applications submitted for the issue of Bulgarian personal documents related to the large number of ID cards expires in 2020, the Ministry of Interior has taken the necessary organisational and administrative measures and actions aimed at continuous and quality of the service process of the Bulgarian citizens to be at normal levels. Some of the leading measures provide that the working units of the Bulgarian identity documents are to pass on floating or extended working hours, subject to the provisions of the Administrative Service Ordinance and other relevant regulations. In order to avoid queues in front of units issuing Bulgarian identity documents and receiving applications, these will be subject to daily control. In the case of a larger number of Bulgarian citizens waiting at the discretion can be organized jobs of two employees for each desk. We are prepared to create a specific and organised acceptance of applications for requests from institutions, offices, mayors and others in order to be able to grouply submit documents, which excludes the walking of each of them to the units. The organized reception will be carried out through mobile biometric stations, subject to the provisions of the regulations and sub-normative acts relevant to the Bulgarian personal documents. In support of the units the Bulgarian identity documents can be redirected employees from other departments of the Ministry. We have provided information on electronic administrative services, issuing ID cards to Bulgarian citizens, issuing passports to Bulgarian citizens to be promoted through the media and placing suitable places in the units of Bulgarian identity documents. Citizens will also be informed in due time of change in working hours and organised reception via mobile biometric stations. We have also provided the possibility of submitting applications for the issue of Bulgarian personal documents in each regional government for Bulgarian citizens with a permanent address in the territory of the respective regional directorate, which we believe will make it very easy for citizens to submit documents in each regional management in the area in which they live. In addition to the above, actions have been taken to provide additional premises and job creation in the administrative units of other state authorities and local authorities. In this regard, the directors of the SDVR and the regional directorates of the Ministry of Interior have taken action to provide the district governors with appropriate premises for the construction of administrative centers receiving applications for the issue and service of Bulgarian personal documents. We have sent requests to representatives of the judiciary for provision of places located in the buildings of the Court of Justice and the Sofia District Court, which will also be used for acceptance and issue of Bulgarian identity documents. In this way, employees and citizens visiting the abovementioned institutions will benefit from a more flexible opportunity to submit and process their applications. We have also taken further action in terms of securing... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u138	Then you can continue in the line, perhaps. Today we have clarified that we will be strict in control, as it is very intense. Here you are, Mrs. Halacheva, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Marinov, I am happy for the organization, but I think you should understand that nothing is able to compensate the tens of thousands of Bulgarian citizens for the lost time and psychic energy for issuing the new personal documents. The document of every Bulgarian citizen is his connection with our country. It's part of our national identity. Therefore, the procedure for its acquisition and replacement should inspire respect, should inspire pride and not create domestic difficulties which have been linked in the previous years with the lack of basic conditions for meeting natural human needs in front of the desks for issuing personal documents. Minister, I hope you will take advantage of my question and implement all the measures that are laid down in order to facilitate the procedure for issuing the new personal documents to tens of thousands of Bulgarian citizens. If there is a need for legislative change, in my face you will have support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u140	Thank you, dear Mrs. Halacheva. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u141	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Halacheva, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! This is actually the second part that I have not been able to put in place in time related to domestic conditions and the repair of the premises where this activity will be carried out. We understand what you say that Bulgarian personal documents are part of the belonging of citizens to the state, to Bulgaria. We strive in every way to make this as easy as possible, quickly and with respect for the necessary dignity of every citizen we serve in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u142	Thank you, dear Minister. Next issue from the National Representative Georgi Gokov on a delaying adequate reaction to regulation of electric-powered scooters, scooters, their numerous alternatives. Here you are, Mr. Gokov. Two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, for some time the world has been working towards creating environmentally friendly, light and comfortable vehicles to move in urban environments. Investors are oriented towards their many alternatives and forms. Bulgarian cities are already conquered by scooters, scooters and the like. In Sofia there was also a start-up campaign that offers similar vehicles in urban conditions. Even if I'm not mistaken, there are three companies like this now. All of this supports the growing interest in alternative methods of forecasting in the urban environment and is part of the Strategy for improving air quality. Pretty soon, scooters and trotinets will become more of an integral part of the movement in Sofia and other Bulgarian cities. At the same time, Mr. Minister, your employees state in the media that electric scooters are not allowed to move on the roads in Sofia, and those who manage them are accordingly led to drive an unregistered motor vehicle and explain that the traffic police will sanction the drivers. And outside Sofia, do they have the right to move on the roads and will they be sanctioned? You understand the ridiculousness of such applications. In this situation, in which I think the Ministry of Interior is late with an adequate response to the legal regulation of all electric drives, scooters, scooters and many alternatives, a number of questions arise. Mr. Minister, will you come up with a single opinion on the use of these environmentally friendly, comfortable vehicles in urban environment until their legal regulation? Next question: what does the statement that, until legal regulation has taken place, these vehicles will be considered under the current Act as motor vehicles? When, within what deadlines can we expect a proposal for a legal regulation by the Ministry of Interior? Although I know there are already some in that direction, but in my line I'll say more.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u144	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Here you are, Mr. Marinov, for your answer, three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u145	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Gokov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! First of all, thank you for the question you are asking and the importance of the topic that is gaining a broad public response. The Ministry of Interior reports the trends for electric vehicles and their popularity in Bulgaria and other European countries. Without a doubt, the lack of clear rules in the use of electric scooters is an essential factor and a prerequisite for the occurrence of road accidents. In this regard, changes to the current Road Traffic Act are necessary. I inform you that after working meetings, we have developed a project which is currently under discussion with the State Agency. The project provides requirements for individual electric vehicles and their drivers, bound by the relevant plantation provisions. I will not go into the specifics and details of the proposals discussed. I will allow myself to mention only the more important of them, as follows: it is discussed that the drivers of this type of vehicle use a helmet and reflective elements of clothing in their management, move on the built bikes and, in the absence of built bikes, move as close as possible to the right boundary of the road lane as possible, do not move on roads and streets at which the maximum permitted speed for movement is more than 50 km per hour, not exceed the maximum permissible speed of 25 km per hour, to be at the age of 16 years and having one of the categories in art. 150a, para. 2 of the Road Traffic Act. A number of requirements for individual electric vehicles are discussed, including the introduction of registration for larger vehicles. As regards the actions of the Ministry of Interior at this time, I inform you that in cases of detected electric traffic violations in the country's road network, sanctions resulting from the legislation in force should apply to drivers. In accordance with art. 180, para. 1, t. 1 of the Road Traffic Act for violation of the rules for use of the road road guides shall be sanctioned with a fine of 20 to 150 BGN when as a result of the violation the immediate danger to the traffic is created. In accordance with art. 185 of the same law requires a fine of 20 leva. in other cases of incorrect traffic on the road. I would like to assure you once again that we are in the Ministry of Interior for legal regulation of this type of new motor vehicles, but we are not against the development of more environmentally friendly transport. As an institution, I strongly support the future, which is now directly linked to environmental electric motors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Marinov. Here you go, Mr. Gokov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Ministry of Interior realizes that these, as I said, environmentally friendly, lightweight, road vehicles are with a future as an alternative way of moving into the city and as part of the opportunities to improve air quality. A moment ago, it was my question to Minister Ananiev of Health that the Bulgarians poisoned the contaminated air, including the vehicles. I saw a proposal for a regulation on the movement of electric trotinettes published on the website of the State Agency on 17 September this year for public discussion. This regulation on the movement of electric scooters is in fact a Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act. I've come to know the details of this document. I've had meetings and conversations with many owners and users of electric scooters or whatever they are called in the document, individual electric vehicles. I have to tell you that they greatly approve of these changes which regulate the movement of these individual electric vehicles, short-term scooters, and believe that this is how they become a full road traffic participant. Again, with everything you have said, I agree and thank you for the attitude on the issue and on the subject, but I wish that you could state from this tribune that, until these changes come into this regulation, first of all, you will cancel all fines imposed so far which are not in the spirit of the proposal published for public discussion for a regulation on the movement of electric trotinettes, for example, of that person who has been fined because he has not been registered with the trotinet, and there is no regulation on which to register these trotinettes. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Secondly, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and of the Road Police Just stick to them. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u148	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u149	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Gokov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! In response to your rejoinder with regard to the sanctions imposed I, as Minister, do not have the authority to repeal such sanctions. They shall be implemented by the relevant police authorities and the administrative order shall be observed. With regard to not applying the current Road Traffic Act, I would ask the question: yes, movement is a kind of violation, but if, as a result of this movement, a car accident occurs with victims, and God forbid, and more severe, what should we do? So right now, we are really in the same situation as the future. Unfortunately, it always slows down the legislation, but I hope this will happen in a short time so that all who have a commitment to this problem feel on the side of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Marinov. We are going to ask the MP Anton Kutev about the policies of the Ministry of Interior for guaranteeing the constitutional rights of citizens. Here you are, Mr. Kutev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u151	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear ministers, ladies, colleagues! My question is in connection with the action on suspicion of espionage carried out on 9 September 2019 which led to the arrest of the President of the Movement of Russia and eight other members of the management of the organization. If I remember correctly, when you gave an explanation here in the National Assembly last time, you used the words "incarcerated and taken for questioning" for these eight people. For me, when eight people from the leadership of the Movement...... any movement, this is a civic movement, they are taken for questioning, you will surely inform me in a moment of any member of the law, which said it was very important for you to question them. But why do you have to arrest them and why do the interrogation have to happen through arrest? Why did it have to be at 7:00 a.m. to some professor because it was about former deputies, about publishers, about journalists, about professors philologists of Professor philologist Vanya Dobreva, what was it that required police officers to appear at her door at 7:00 a.m. to take her away for questioning? There are at least two problems - they are many, but I purposely talked about the constitutional rights of the citizens because the first problem is contained in art. 4, para. 2 of the Constitution, where it is said that the Republic of Bulgaria guarantees the life, dignity and rights of the person and creates conditions for the free development of human and civil society, insofar as Roussols is a civic organization. Article 38 of the Constitution says: "No one can be persecuted or restricted in his rights because of his beliefs, nor should he be obliged or forced to give information about his or her or foreign beliefs. In my opinion, in this case, these two articles of the Constitution are at least problematic. Again, I guess you'll have an explanation, you'll tell me there's heavy intelligence espionage and so on. That's why I'm going to talk maybe next time I get involved because I never recognized espionage in the whole thing and we're aware, I guess this will all end in Strasbourg and not in favor of the state. We've seen cases like this before, but let's not predict it and see how it goes. In connection with all this, my question to you is: what are the policies of the Ministry of Interior for guaranteeing the constitutional rights of citizens?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u152	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Here you are, Minister, you have five minutes for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u153	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Kutev, the activities of the Ministry of Interior are aimed at protecting the rights and freedoms of citizens in the Republic of Bulgaria. Our main functions and duties are dictated by principles, including compliance with the Constitution and the laws of the country, objectivity, publicity and accountability of the activity and results achieved. In fulfilling their duties, police officers are led by impartiality, political neutrality, respect for the dignity of citizens and guaranteeing their constitutional rights. In the particular case to which the inquiry relates, the actions of the Ministry of Interior are legal and are carried out under the supervision of the Prosecutor's Office............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 127, para. 1 of the Constitution. On 9 September 2019 officials from the Sofia Directorate of Interior took part in investigative, surveying, searching and seizure activities, personal searches and others awarded by a decree of the Special Prosecutor's Office for Pre-trial Procedure No 133/2019 on the description of the investigating department of the Special Prosecutor's Office. It was set up for a crime under art. 105, para. One, proposal number two of the penal code. The investigative actions were carried out on the territory of the cities of Sofia, Pernik and Breznik. Under the terms of art. Art. 72, Art. 73 of the Ministry of Interior Act with an order was detained eight persons for a period of 24 hours. You yourself know that any restriction of the right to free movement of a citizen is issued an order by the police authority, which is actually a way to give the detained person the right to use his rights and appeal in administrative order. We are obliged to issue such an order for up to 24 hours in any restriction of the right to free movement. During the period of detention, the persons are convoyed to the premises of the investigating department of the Special Prosecutor's Office and handed over to the investigating authorities, who are competent in this case to continue working with the persons. The actions of the Ministry of Interior officers in the case at hand have been carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Criminal Procedure Code and the Ministry of Interior Act. There are no violations of the rights of the detained persons as well as a complaint by them concerning the legality of the police actions taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u154	Thank you, dear Mr. Marinov. Here you are, Mr. Kutev, for further questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, I have no doubt that in this case you have clearly documented the relevant orders and the relevant relationship with the prosecution. Personally, I am not a big enough specialist in your field to be able to tell where the problem is...................... if there is a problem in the prosecution, in the DANS or in the Ministry of Interior. As far as I know, all three of you guys have organized the appropriate thing together, and I don't think that's any of my business. I'm asking this question with the idea of you distinguishing it. For me, the problem is that in some legal form and in the form of some kind of espionage struggle, which, frankly, especially in the column, I think was art. 105 of the Penal Code, if I am not mistaken, is very difficult to prove, and in my opinion this will actually fail as a result for many reasons, but against the backdrop of all this you are making de facto arrests for people who are not subject to such treatment at all. I come back again that you can't have a professor philologist like Vanya Dobreva practically being arrested when you need her for questioning? I didn't understand why you didn't call her. He wasn't coming? You suspected that Vanya Dobreva or Yuri Borisov is a publisher and journalist, by the way, is a publisher of the....................Mand diplomat........................................................ is a.................................................................................................................................................................. Why did you have to go and wake them up at 7:00 a.m. with the police and take them to the precincts? This is definitely not part of an investigation under the pretext that you are investigating espionage, in fact you are pressing political people for their beliefs. That's why I was quoting art. 38 of the Constitution, because that's the problem. How did the Ministry of Interior end up in all this? I'm telling you again that there's obviously an interaction between the D.A., DANS and you. Somewhere in this interaction, there's a mistake. Well, that's absolutely putting pressure on people by belief. In the same way you can do it with a bunch of other people. Yeah, you're doing an investigation or there's a real investigation, and I take it you need to finish the investigation, for example, for Nikolai Malinov. Whatever you prove is okay, there's one. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. Nikolai Malinov is a suspect the D.A. says has evidence of and is something I understand you're doing. But arresting eight people from the Russians as witnesses is absolutely unacceptable! So I asked you what the policies are, because this isn't about the concrete act, it's about how to make sure that no one in this society is being persecuted for beliefs.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u156	Thank you, Lord Kutev. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u157	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Kutev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The policies are precisely such that we respect the letter of the law. In this case, I pay attention again, the actions of the Ministry of Interior are dictated by the relevant decree and legal occasion issued by the investigating department of the Special Prosecutor's Office. This decree describes the relevant actions to be carried out by the police authorities. In carrying out these actions, we comply with the Ministry of Interior Act, which says that any person to whom free movement rights are violated must be issued a detention order within 24 hours. I note that this is actually the document which enables the person to appeal this order in administrative order. I say again that in this activity the authorities of the Ministry of Interior have respected the law exclusively, as well as the attitude towards the persons they were directed against. With regard to politics, this is precisely the policy to follow the law. Not always when it is conducted and acting on the conduct of investigative proceedings, absolutely always such orders are issued to persons temporarily restricted to their rights. I believe that this should be applied as a principle and we apply it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u158	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Kutev, you can express your attitude to the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u159	Dear Minister, perhaps I have been in this place for too long, there are people with much more parliamentary experience than I have, and it is already tiring for me to remind both colleagues and executives that each of us, in some position, has a fan of opportunity. I know that in power offices like yours it's smaller. I know that you have a certain order and hierarchy that must be respected and that you cannot afford any deviations, but I know that what I see is obvious to me and to 90% of Bulgarian citizens that it is a certain political impact. Again, I am not saying that parliamentary control is a mechanism by which I can call you. I can't call the Attorney General or the head of the NSA. This is the mechanism of the state, and when I call you and you say to me: "But we have fulfilled everything we have, is not with us, I do not know where it is. The result is that out of eight decent people, whom the prosecution has no charge against, there is one with a charge, and the other seven have been detained, taken for questioning, treated as criminals literally, all the more so that most of them are public figures and people, I say, former lawmakers, publishers, journalists, professors, philologists. This is a way of treatment that is only a step away from being used in many different ways, and you and I as participants in this process need to find our ways of resistance, because the way it is done now against them will then be done against others. If society is not able to oppose, but how it will oppose, except through the MPs and through the power, there is no other way, we are their representatives, this can happen and will happen to many others. This is a matter of our responsibility, of each and every one of us, standing on the banks of power, no matter what level we are at. I ask you very much to draw conclusions about what is possible and what is not. I understand that your specific work is strictly hierarchical, that you have responsibilities that are specific, that you may not be able to go outside them, but if we continue in the same way, this will happen to other people, and this will lead to severe problems for democracy in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u160	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. We move on to the next issue by the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov on migration pressure along the Bulgarian-Turkish border. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear ministers, dear colleagues! Dear Minister, my question is dictated by several things. Of course, this topic had not been on the agenda for a long time, but obviously the subject is up to date. First of all, my question is dictated by the fact that we have a situation with this Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Turkey, and today the Prime Minister hinted in parliamentary control that there are obviously problems. We expect such a problem. Secondly, my question is also dictated by the statements of Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Karakachanov, who is responsible for national security, and said that something is obviously going on along the border and the army is ready to send 2000 people immediately to react. This not only arouses my curiosity, but also the media, because there were republics on this issue. I think it is quite right here to answer: with what intensity is the illegal and lawful migration flow of the Bulgarian-Turkish border in July, August, September 2019? What measures are being taken to date to prevent illegal immigrants from entering the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria? Do you have any evidence of an imminent increase in illegal immigrants in the coming months, of course, on the basis of this information, which was released from the stands by the Prime Minister, because you know that this topic is extremely painful? In the past, we have had very serious migratory pressure and this warning by the Turkish President that by failing to comply with his agreements with the European Union, he will release this stream of migrants that we have seen over the years. Are we currently facing such a threat, and what is the willingness of the state, of course, to react in this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u162	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Mr. Minister for Answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u163	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! In July and August and mid-September 2019 on information submitted by the Bulgarian border patrols to the Turkish border authorities was detained a total of 119 persons on neighbouring territory. After discovering the presence of Bulgarian patrols and posts along the border, other 816 individuals have independently returned to the interior of the Republic of Turkey. The Bulgarian border authorities have detained a total of 63 persons illegally crossing the border. In comparison with the same period of 2018, there was a decrease of about twice the number of detainees and attempts to illegally enter the territory of the country. On a signal from the Bulgarian border patrols, the Turkish border authorities have detained 365 persons in neighbouring territory, while other 2105 individuals have returned to the interior of the Republic of Turkey on their own. The border police officers have detained 113 people. To counter and reduce the levels of migration pressure at the Bulgarian-Turkish border is applied a complex of security and operational events, taking into account its strength and intensity. The more important are: by order of the Minister of Interior from the beginning of 2019, a special police operation has continued to be conducted to counter illegal migration, which is implemented in accordance with the established by the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior, with designated events and tasks; constant monitoring is carried out for the timely detection of migration groups in neighbouring territory; through the Trilateral Contact Centre of Border Control Point Active support from the border surveillance of the Bulgarian-Turkish border is provided by the European Border and Coast Guard Agency Frontex. In the context of a joint operation, flexible and operational activities along the south-eastern borders shall be seconded forces and funds from other Member States of the European Union. The Ministry of Interior has no evidence of an upcoming increase in the number of illegal immigrants trying to illegally enter the country's territory in view of the metrological conditions of late autumn and approaching winter. I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Interior is able to securely guarantee public order and security a major priority in the political programme of the Political Party GERB, and increase the capacity of security at the state borders through a complex of measures and active cooperation with neighbouring countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u164	Thank you, Mr. Marinov. I gave you a little more time, maybe you can finish the line later. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u165	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I was a little shocked by a part of your speech. I thought you were a non-party minister and hardly the Ministry of Interior is owned by a political party GERB. I hope you'll correct yourself in your line. With regard to your answer, first of all, I want to know where the real truth is, because according to information from the Ministry of Interior, from 1 January 2019 until 13 September 2019, nearly 6 thousand people have been returned to the country. In the country's territory, about 1,000 people were captured, illegally staying, who entered from somewhere. Next, I don't understand this optimism that I won't, I hope so. How to understand the gap between your information in your reference and what the Prime Minister said just half an hour ago here with what Deputy Prime Minister Karakachanov said a week ago. I've always said my opinion that the efficiency of this obstruction facility is a little questionable because a week or two ago, we all witnessed footage leaking out of the network, with one ladder, migrants passing by, as if entering the neighboring yard. In this regard, I ask you to be more objective and to find out where the truth is, what the Prime Minister said or what you say? Again, I appeal: be a professional, work at the Ministry for Bulgarian citizens, not for a political party.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u166	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u167	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! On the first issue, I am a minister in the government of Mr. Boyko Borisov and as such I implement the program of the Political Party GERB in the management and the priorities underlying the Ministry of Interior. With regard to the data you have submitted, I will pay attention again: my information was only for the Bulgarian-Turkish border. The data you have is common to our border, including the internal border that is with Greece. I haven't had the time to go on, but I'll let you know that the processes you're talking about are actually a fact thanks to the facility that's been built. We effectively counteract these processes, however, which guides them towards a more difficult security Turkish-Greek border. Naturally, when there is a problem with illegal migration in Greece, it also applies to us, as you know between Greece and Bulgaria there is a land green border, which, however, has no built facility, and there is no way, as we are member states of the European Union. In addition, I will confirm the Prime Minister's words. Before I came for control, I had a meeting with the new Greek Migration Policy Minister. I invited him to the first ministers' meeting in Finland, as the problem is really serious. We also discussed with him what initiatives Bulgaria, Greece and Cyprus should take, as we are countries in the same region and are in a difficult situation. Indeed, by 11:00 they had illegally crossed the Turkish-Greek border 440 persons, which is extremely disturbing. I assure you, this facility is really doing some serious work. The individuals who have voluntarily returned are due precisely to the effectiveness of this facility, and I believe that we are working in the right direction. Unfortunately, there are objective reasons that are outside the territory of Bulgaria, outside the policy of Bulgaria, including difficult to influence by the policy of the European Union, which are somewhere far away in third countries and which we struggle through bilateral agreements and meetings to balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u168	Thank you, dear Mr. Marinov. This is also the end of the questions to the Minister of the Interior. Nine questions await the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova. We begin with a question from the National Representative Dzhdzhet Chakarov about the need to undertake urgent and urgent repairs, reconstruction and rehabilitation of the third-class road Mr. Chakarov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Avramova, I turn to you once again in connection with the extremely poor condition of the third-class branch of Yugovski, Zdravets locality Zdravets, Rozhen locality, in the municipality of Lucky, Plovdiv, near the border with Smolyan district. As I have repeatedly pointed out in my previous questions to you and before that, this time is the only link of Lucky Municipality with the district centre and the interior of the country. In general, the road, especially after the rains in May and June, and even before that, was in extremely poor condition and needs urgent and urgent repair, reconstruction and rehabilitation. I have presented before you and to the whole public the questions by the municipality and personally to the mayor of Lucky Municipality, as well as to the business there not only to me, but also to the other MPs from Plovdiv district about the necessity and urgency, in view of the risks he is hiding, and God forbid there are no accidents that will have serious consequences. In this regard, my question to you is: are urgent and urgent repairs, reconstruction and rehabilitation of this road envisaged? By the way, I am asking you because in previous answers I have been told about an upcoming design procedure and in general about procedures that concern design and later construction, as well as providing funding not only for rehabilitation, but also an extension of this path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u170	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chakarov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! During the months of May and June, the heavy rains really caused damage to the banquets and road lanes on road III-861 South "Lucky" Zdravetz. The damage is removed under the contract for ongoing repair and maintenance as the indicative value of the necessary activities is about 50 000 BGN. with VAT. Apart from this, the operating condition of the section from km 5+416 to km 5+574 on the left is deteriorated as a result of the falling showers of rain in that period. The dangerous section is located between two consecutive horizontal curves after the village of Yugo. He's in a transmission state. The surface water that came in caused the banquet to collapse and undermine the road body. The experts from District Road Management Plovdiv have found a partial destruction of the construction of the road, a drop banquet and an embankment on the side of the hair, longitudinal cracks at a width of one tape, hanging a restrictive system for roads 5 units by 4 meters in length. The main part of the route passes through an optical cable serviced by the Ministry of Home Affairs National System 112, which is threatened by damage in the continuation of geological processes. According to information from Regional Road Management Plovdiv, there is a real danger of skiing and road construction in the damaged banquet and lying road body. In relation to the above and in relation to your question and concerns about this path and in order to protect the lives and health of people using the Republican roads, experts from Regional Road Management Plovdiv have in a timely manner prepared documentation which has been sent to the Road Infrastructure Agency to take action before the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers for the provision of targeted funds from the Republican budget for the recovery of damage caused by disasters or found dangerous status of sections of the Republican Road Network. The necessary funds amount to BGN 389 984,62. with VAT. In August, the Road Infrastructure Agency launched a procedure for approval of the prepared documentation and was entrusted to the maintenance company the preparation and implementation of a technology project to strengthen the compromised section, expecting construction activities to start by the end of this month. With regard to the development of the technical project for major repair and partial reconstruction of the site road III-861 South-Southovo. "Lucky" Zdravets from km 0 to km 31+040 and the exercise of copyright supervision within the meaning of the Law on Construction of the territory and the regulations in force, of all parts of the technical project awarded to a contractor after a public procurement procedure, I would like to inform you that a second interim phase of the project has been created and supplemented. This stage covers in addition to the construction of the technical design for major repair and reconstruction, and the development of a detailed development plan. The adoption of a correct technical solution from the point of view of satisfying the traffic requirements that currently uses this route, taking into account the trends for making it an alternative route on route II-86, has proved a challenge for experts. A motivated and detailed analysis of the project's benefits and costs was needed in order to find a balanced solution, on the one hand, due to the large capitals for complete reconstruction of the road and significant expropriation areas, and, on the other hand, achieving satisfactory traffic safety technical parameters for road III-861. This is why the contracting authority carefully approaches the review of the submitted project and requires additional solutions to be provided by the contractor. A second interim phase of the project of the expert technical and economic board of the Agency is to be considered and after the final adoption of the project by the contracting authority and approval of the detailed development plan by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, as required by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, a complex evaluation report will be developed... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. ... of compliance with the essential requirements for construction works, including technical control of part of the project. There are estrangement procedures following that take, you know, a significant time period, and after their completion we can issue a permit for the construction of a major repair of this road section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u172	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I gave you two and a half minutes more. That was the bonus for this parliamentary control. Here you are, Mr. Chakarov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u173	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mrs. Avramova, I thank you for your response in the part where you state the findings that the situation is really worrying about this road and urgent measures are being imposed. I sincerely hope that at the end of this month the repairs will begin. Let us not forget that this is a mountain section and in just a month or two, the situation would be very serious and not so that access to this municipality would be interrupted. It's a big risk. I have personally seen the landslides, there is indeed a very disturbing and disturbing situation there. Don't let some cases happen that no one would want. With regard to the procedure you have presented, it is evident that work is being done. My appeal is to make it more speedy, because in this part, and this type of road should be paid attention, all the more so that here the need is very serious. We have information from the district government that the investment process in the municipality of Lucky will be very serious. The business fully supports the realization of this project, but it is justified in view of the next question I will ask you. Let us create conditions for good business, for good economic development and for the possibility of good accessibility for all regions in view of the depopulation we are seeing. I would ask you, if we could know about designing all these procedures at what time frame would move to get to the building permit? It is good to build highways, so that from now on there can be more quality construction, and there can also be construction of such a type of road infrastructure in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u174	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. Would you like a duplicate, Madam Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman, I will be very brief to make up for the time of my reply. Dear Mr. Chakarov, of course, that safety for movement on the Republican road network, as well as on municipal roads, is a top priority for all of us as MPs, and for us as a government is a top priority. We strive with regard to the limited resources of the Agency to prioritize the roads in Bulgaria that need to be made, to ensure passability on both highways and other second-class and third-class roads. I assure you this time is important. We are aware of it, and I am aware of it, so we will be as quick as possible in the procedures that we need to conduct under the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u176	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Next question again by the MP Jevdet Chakarov on the policy of stopping depopulation in small settlements. You're welcome to develop the question, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u177	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mrs. Avramova, on May 30th, the media reported that at the International Architectural Conference you have stated that now the government's main task is to stop depopulation and create better living conditions in small towns because overurbanization continues and that soon we will not find ourselves in the situation of some neighbouring countries - 30, 40 to 50% of the population to be concentrated in just a few large cities, and in the country the tendency is to be in cities about 30% and up to six cities with a population of over 100 thousand people. In this regard, my questions to you are: Is the establishment of a special programme to stop depopulation of small settlements planned? If so, would you point out the main accents in it? Secondly, what specific measures does the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works intend to implement, and what deadlines for stopping depopulation in small towns? What projects will specifically be invested in? And thirdly, what will be the sources of funding for measures to stop depopulation of small settlements and in what size? I just remind you that the election PP GERB had announced that for small and medium-sized settlements there will be special policies, even a very serious financial framework has been pointed out so that there are investments in infrastructure, and this is fully correlated with what I ask you. In this regard: what is the position of the Ministry and what you would present to us, because it is important, as in Europe and on regionalism, that there be infrastructure that is in large cities, that there is also in small and medium-sized settlements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u178	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u179	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chakarov, ladies and gentlemen! The territorial location of the population is determined by natural growth, as well as by internal and external migration. According to official statistics at the end of 2017, 5 181,755 people live in the cities, or 73,5%, and in the villages, 1 868 279 people, or 26.5% of the country's population. With a population of over 100,000, there are six large cities living in 34.1% of the country's population. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works defines the regional development policy which has a direct effect on demographics, but should not be applied in isolation, as demographic problems are common, have a horizontal nature and require measures to be taken by all policy-making structures and departments concerned with demographic development. The National Mechanism for Coordination and Monitoring of the implementation of the horizontal, inter-institutional and cross-sectoral demographic policy is implemented through the established National Council for Demographic Policy at the Council of Ministers. The priority directions and tasks in the field of demographic policy are set out in the updated National Strategy for Demographic Development of the Population in the Republic of Bulgaria 2012 - 2030 and are aimed at realizing the strategic goal of slowing down the rate of reduction of population numbers with a tendency to stabilize in the long term and ensuring a high quality of human capital, including people with their health, education, qualification, abilities and skills. An integrated approach to maximum coverage of demographic problems shall be applied. The main objective of work in the field of demographic policy is to limit the negative impacts of demographic imbalances on public finances and social systems. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works takes action to improve the effectiveness of regional policy in Bulgaria by adopting a new approach in its development and implementation, providing for synchronization and closer commitment of strategic planning of regional development with the programming of European funds. As a result of the new approach in regional policy, a reduction in the imbalance in development is also expected both at an intraregional and interregional level, which will contribute to creating prerequisites for better living conditions in settlements, respectively, for reducing the rate of depopulation and migration processes. The new approach in the implementation of the regional development policy will also be implemented through the development of strategic and programming documents for the period after 2020, taking into account not only the existence of large disproportations in the development of Bulgarian regions, but also appropriate measures will be outlined to overcome them. Strategic documents are intended to have a clear focus and focus on specific objectives with increased content, efficiency and applicability, closely oriented to the needs and specificities of specific territories. The Ministry's competence has an impact on demographic balances through the implementation of the Operational Programme for Regional Development and territorial cooperation programmes. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'll keep going in the back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u180	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. Here you are, Mr. Chakarov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u181	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Minister, I have no way of expressing satisfaction with your reply in the light that what you have said is true and I assure you that we are familiar, including myself, with what you have presented. Rather, I expected from you, in view of what was stated in May, to have a slightly greater specific, which I would ask you to do. I am far from thinking that even with what you would do with the Ministry of Environment and Water in terms of infrastructure, that this would be a panacea, so that we would keep people, but I hope that you agree that we would create conditions that would attract even young people to stay there and some even return to these settlements. Bulgaria would be much more beautiful if this proportion, which you have presented, is far from the best in terms of 26% in the villages, and it is hardly necessary to state what trends are. Of course, when there's no infrastructure, when there's no employment, people... I share that this is not only in your competences, there are other ministries that have their competences, which form policies that they need to implement, and successfully to stop the process of depopulation of small and medium-sized settlements. I really hope these documents, as I understand from your exhibition, are yet to be prepared. It is worth it, no matter who is ruling, which opposition, these documents to be filled with content, to be effective, to do in a broad discussion and debate and to be effective, working, acting without regard to who is ruling in the future, so that the conditions for life, quality and standard can be normal in both large and medium-sized settlements. At this point, I believe that there are many things that need to be done with regard to the quality of standard and living in small and medium-sized settlements. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman! I say this not only as a representative of the DPS, because this goes within the policy framework and the visibility of the DPS, but because we have many people living in the villages, and I believe that we politicians are very obliged and obliged to do all this together. I hope there will be more concrete in perspective on your part as a minister. It would be good to hear exactly what steps are ahead, dear Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u182	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. Here you are, Madam Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u183	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Chakarov, in addition to what I have said so far, I will say that it is envisaged that the new Operational Program for Regional Development will focus on the territorial objective and work towards strengthening the role of the regional level in decision-making. That is to say, to encourage civil participation and the bottom-up approach in determining the key areas of public investment, taking into account local specifics and economic development potentials. I wanted to supplement it, because our goal is not to have white spots, as they were in this programming period, so that we could cover the whole territory, all the regions and find the right projects, those that will lead to economic growth in the whole region and in every single settlement. We will be transparent in defining all strategic documents, so we will have the opportunity to comment with you in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u184	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Third question from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov on completion of Belitsa Road from km 10+430 to km 18. Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u185	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Avramova, I address you as I have referred to your predecessors about the Belitsa road. This road section has a length of 7.6 km. I can specify the technical data and parameters, but they are for specialists, and are built since 1961 by providing funds at different stages. This road is not built anyway, but includes communication with the village of Belitsa, after the village of Belitsa, the municipality of Lucky, to the villages of Zagrazhden, Davidkovo, Valchan dol, Glugino, Mountain, Riben dol, Banite, Two poplars and others located in the territory of Plovdiv and Smolyan region. Unfortunately, it stops not only the economic development of these settlements, but also normal contact, because the road is very difficult, especially winter time, and after precipitation and landslides that occur, it is almost impregnable. I will not argue very thoroughly why it is necessary this time. Other colleagues from the districts of Plovdiv and Smolyan have also asked you a question about the construction of the road, but I would like to remind you that in response to a parliamentary question on 1 February 2019. You announced that on 4 December 2018 a contract was awarded and an engineering contract was signed for the completion of the road with specific parameters. I hope that all this is under way and funds are provided to finally build this time, because it is really very important and would literally revive the region and the settlements that I have pointed out. We will be very interested and we hope for a positive answer: how is the design or the possible award of construction activities going? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u186	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chakarov, according to the contract concluded between the Agency of Road Infrastructure and the Company of Road Engineering III-8611 Belitsa from km 10+430 to km 18 on the territory of Plovdiv, the contractor should carry out research and design works, develop a technical project and perform the construction works. Within the time limit set for design, the contractor carried out the necessary research and design works and developed technical projects for the site. The design documentation was submitted to the Road Infrastructure Agency and after examination by the Agency's experts it was found that it did not meet the requirements of the contracting entity specified in the design assignment. The Agency notified the contractor of the findings of the non-compliances and returned the draft adjustment and supplement. We expect the contractor to present as soon as possible the final design documentation for the repair of the road on the territory of Plovdiv region and after its approval will actually start the construction works. This is an object for which there is a budgetary contribution of nearly BGN 4 million. As regards the third-class section in Smolyan district. The Agency has taken action and has commissioned repairs in a section of a mile long between the border with Plovdiv district and Bound from km 18+050 to km 19+600, and the repair must be completed by the beginning of November this year. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. Two hundred and Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u188	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Chakarov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u189	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Avramova, this time as opposed to the previous question, I would say I am satisfied with the answer. As an MP from the district, I have a request because this concerns not only Plovdiv and the villages of Smolyan district, the adjustments in the project to be implemented in due time and to start construction, because a winter period is coming and not so that starting again, there will be compromise of the construction. So that these funds should go as intended and achieve the objective of building a road infrastructure as necessary and to be given. Perhaps the approach should be this way for the torn places. I'll take the liberty of saying a few words again about the road from South Inn to Lucky. To a large extent, this is a continuation of the road. This part of the Rhodopes is extremely beautiful. Besides, let's not forget that besides the business, besides the population that lives there, there's also a Cross Forest over Lucky. In view of the attendance there should be some normal conditions, there should be no risks of accidents, accidents and incidents.. there landslides are extremely risky. The road is indeed in extremely critical condition and I welcome you that you and the Road Infrastructure Agency have allocated funds to repair the most urgent activities in order to have at least one normal passage. I'll keep an eye on the process of designing the other parts of the road so they can move in a timely manner. Let us hope that funds will be provided in the budget for next year for the construction of this type of road infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u190	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chakarov, this is one of the special cases in our work in which there is funding and we cannot really begin construction activities. I would like to assure you that in the event that the contractor does not submit final project documentation, the Road Infrastructure Agency will consider options for a lawful solution to the problem and award of the necessary activities as soon as possible so as to fulfil the commitment we have taken to the citizens and to fix this section between Belitsa and Zagrajden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u192	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. We are moving on to a question from the MPs Stanislav Vladimirov and Vladimir Bonev about the state of the dam. Mr. Bonev, you're welcome to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Studena "Studena" dam provides more than 90% of the water supply of Pernik municipality. The facility was built in the mid-50s of the 20th century and its volume was 25.2 million cubic meters. For the time since its launch, the dam continues to be the main water source of the town of Pernik and the settlements on the territory of Pernik municipality. Despite heavy rains in spring and at the beginning of summer of several weeks, feathered systematically remain without water supply for more than 24 hours. In some of the neighborhoods of Pernik and the villages of the municipality, when there is water the pressure is so low that the taps become unusable. In view of the location, we have found that the amount of water in the reservoir of Studena. It has decreased dramatically and where water volumes are supposed to exist, in reality there are grassy vegetation. Pernicans are placed under a hidden, and perhaps already a clear water regime due to the fact that within a few days some of the population of the smaller villages do not have water. No one explains to my fellow citizens why their taps remain dry for so long. In this regard, Mrs. Minister, my question to you is: what is the state of the dam? What is the amount of water in the lake? What measures will you take for the normal water supply in the settlements for both the town of Pernik and the villages around Pernik? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u194	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bonev, Dear Mr. Vladimirov, Studena "Studena" dam was built between 1953 and 1955. It is designed to provide drinking water for the population of the town of Pernik, the town of Batanovtsi and the nearby villages, as well as for industrial water supply. The dam is concrete with a height of 53 m and length of the crown 259 m. With financing through an investment loan from the World Bank and co-financing from the state budget, rehabilitation of the dam will be carried out, which will continue the operation and security of the dam, especially taking into account its complex importance for the region, with the value of the construction works being 32 million. lv. Since the inhabitants of Pernik and Batanovtsi have no alternative water supply for drinking needs, the rehabilitation of the dam's water bay has been completed under water by divers without interruption of supply to consumers. At the moment the construction works on the wall have been completed, the reconstruction of the water tower will begin in October. The low water levels in the lake are not related to the construction and installation works on the facilities, but are due to the prolonged drought and lack of precipitation in the water district during this summer. At present, the water level cat is 828 meters, at a water level of 840 meters. The total volume of the dam is 25 million cubic meters, and the current volume is 10 million cubic meters. Due to the continuing drought and the serious cracks in the soil, there is indeed a violation of the water supply connections, an increase of more than 150 accidents compared to the previous period. The technological time to remove the damage and fill the system is also the cause of the frequent stops of the water supply to some neighborhoods of the settlements. The waters of complex and significant dams are used on a basis established by the Minister of Environment and Water schedule. In the September schedule, it is noted for the whole country that the available welded volumes in the dams in August decreased significantly compared to the previous month, but it is also stated that all water and water dams are with volumes sufficient to ensure the needs of water users in September. In order to improve water supply and sewerage services on 28 August 2019. "Water and sewerage" "Pernik" signed a contract for the construction of a water infrastructure under Operational Programme "Environment 2014" at the value of 106 million. lv. Nearly 40 million. lv. of these funds are for sites with which the replacement of water lines will be made and as a result the interruptions of water supply from frequent accidents will also be reduced. With the realization of this large-scale project is expected a significant improvement of water supply in the settlements of Pernik district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u196	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Here's a line for you, Mr. Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u197	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, in your response you have tried to shift the focus on the problem that we have asked you that settlements in Pernik municipality, neighborhoods in Pernik city in large periods of weeks, almost a month, are without quality drinking water. That is why I told you that we expected to discuss here with you a problem that stands in front of the Perniks, it appears that serious precipitation is not expected, which may be deepening. You quoted that the volume at the moment is about 10 million. I have a response from your colleague Neno Dimov and the volume of water that he tells us is currently at Studena Dam is much lower; and the report we have from Pernik is that the water in Studena Dam is somewhere around 8 million. With a monthly volume that is used for the needs of the municipality of Pernik about a million and a half, this means that within a month or two we will be in a much more serious crisis from the moment when we have a hidden water regime, as said colleague Bonev. You quoted it as a dry year. The data your colleague has provided me is that for June in the water district, which you have quoted, has dropped 153 liters per square meter. That's a huge amount. Here we should not justify ourselves, as quite often the administration tries to justify itself with subjective factors, but we should seek the objective reasons for whether the dam is well managed so that we do not fall into this water crisis, which is in Pernik. In such a hidden water regime we haven't fallen into tens of years at least I don't remember in Pernishko. If you can, in the subsequent answer in particular, explain to us: what measures you will take; are you well managed at Studena Dam; is the director of the water service appropriate, because he has an education that is not similar to what this post should be; is there a fault in the water company in Pernik in order to get Pernik into this water crisis that is at the moment; and what will be your actions? I'm asking for more specific answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u198	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. Here you are, Madam Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Vladimirov, I would like to assure you that the problem with dam levels is in almost all of Bulgaria and that such a problem with frequent accidents on the occasion of reduced quantities of water exists elsewhere. Any engineer or water engineer can tell you that in any accident that has occurred by plumbing or heating, as they work under pressure, each starting and stopping, when we have an old and depreciated network, leads to a certain hydraulic impact and this increases the number of accidents. I would like to stress that the problem of reducing water quantities is indeed a problem for the whole of Bulgaria because of the permanent drought. If you have specific data for poor management of the dam, which I do not have, please provide me with a check on this signal. At present, the cause is the permanent drought and the frequent accidents that are related to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u200	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. We move on to the next question by the National Representative Nikolay Tishev, about the implementation of unregulated materials in the construction of the road Burgas Sunny Beach. Here you are, Mr. Tishev, to develop your question for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u201	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! The Municipal Council of Pomorie Municipality, on a proposal from Mayor Ivan Aleksiev, sets places for the disposal of land masses from the construction of the road Burgas Sunny Beach. Among them is the site of Simeonova mound near the town of Kableshkovo. According to local residents who signaled me instead of depositing land masses, material is currently being seized from the Mogila and it is lying in bed on the road. The material has unregulated indicators. For more than a year now, I have been insisting to the Road Infrastructure Agency that an international laboratory should check the quality of materials used in highways already built, and in the above case we see that in the construction of new roads, poor materials are used which will very quickly compromise the road pavement and create a danger to the movement, as well as to the health and life of drivers and passengers. In this regard, my questions to you are: which authority or institution has authorised the use of materials from unregulated careers and, second question, what control will you carry out, what sanctions will you impose and to whom, given that the area of Simeonov mounds has historical value? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u202	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. Here you are, Madam Minister, for your answer, three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Tishev, the construction of the site road I-9 Sunny Beach 923 thousand. £664. The funds are provided by the budget of the Railway Infrastructure Agency and the construction works of the site are carried out by the Ministry of Education and Education 2015 and the construction supervision by the Road Consult 2000. Regarding the first question, I say to you that the implementation of the site does not include unregulated materials. The norms in the construction of roads from the Republican Road Network and of the road facilities are regulated in the technical specification of the Road Infrastructure Agency. They are a set of instructions and contain the relevant established technical requirements and conditions for materials and construction works. The technical specification shall form an integral part of all works contracts concluded by the Agency. Currently, the company performer of the tour of the town of Pomorie has submitted for inspection at the Road Infrastructure Agency (R &amp; D) and certified the implementation of ground and road works. The earthwork shall include the execution of stacks of material meeting the requirements of the technical specification. I note that the builder is obliged to apply a declaration of performance and test reports to the material from an accredited road construction laboratory and such are attached to this report. In addition, when building the spill is exercised constant strict control by the subject laboratory for both the qualities of the material and the way it is applied and its sealing. Regarding your second question concerning the control and sanctions for the disposal of material in the places of reclamation, I inform you that in connection with the implementation of the tour of the town of Pomorie in May this year, the builder of the site has submitted to Pomorie municipality an application for the recultivation of the land property 35-033.10.315 on the cadastral map of the town of Kableshkovo, representing agricultural land which is municipal property, and the municipality has granted permission for the recultivation of the property. In June, the contractor also submitted a project for the recultivation of the property, which provides for the disposal of hummus layer from the construction of Pomorie's tour. The project was reviewed and adopted at a meeting of the Expert Council on 25 July 2019 and a building permit was issued by the main architect of the town of Pomorie for the reclamation site. With regard to your question, the land masses are deposited in the area of Simeonova mound. I inform you that by order of the Minister of Culture, the boundaries and regimes for use of the territories and the security area of the archaeological monument of culture are defined by the order of the Minister of Culture. This area stands about a kilometer west of the land property designated for reclamation. After verification of experts from the Municipality of Pomorie in the technical archive of the municipality, no order of the Minister of Culture for the declaration of monument and the definition of borders and regimes of any object falling within the area of Simeonova mounds was opened. In addition, an extraordinary working meeting is held on September 17th regarding the alleged implementation of unregulated materials in the construction of the road, which was attended by the contracting entity, supervision and Regional Road Management Burgas. After the grant of the building permit, for the recultivation and approval of preliminary soil tests by the material engineer has started and the delivery of the materials for zone B from the road bed I'm gonna finish up in my asshole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u204	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Here you go, Mr. Tishev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u205	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I am not satisfied with the answer. Why? Because for the most part, it included the issue of the disposal of land masses, and that is not the problem I have not put it as a problem. Also, whether the area has historical status or not, in the case of the safety of drivers, passengers and traffic, is not of that much importance. However, I did not understand: did someone from the Ministry actually go to the place to check this signal that the residents of Kableshkovo gave me, or did someone from the contracting authority meet with the contractor and supervision and supervision also receive their money from this order, said to him: yes, there are no problems and it is all over? Did anyone check the signal at the scene? Are there any visible signs that Earth mass is being seized from these hills? And you know, there, besides rock mass, there's clay, there's limestone, there's dirt, there's dirt, so these roads then sit down and create a problem for the movement. That question was not answered to me: did anyone on the spot do a background check? Because then with physical control in five minutes, it would be established whether what people have signaled me is true or not. So one of the sides clearly doesn't tell exactly what the truth is. I don't think the people who signaled me were looking for me specifically because they have nothing to do and nothing to do. We had a meeting, they alerted me, they gave me information to ask the minister a question. I mean, I think they're telling the truth. What the other side says is already a question that I expect you to answer. But if there isn't one of your employees who went to the scene to check and find out, how can we then give a correct answer to the question I asked? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u206	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. Here you are, Madam Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Tishev, I just said that on September 17th regarding the allegations of the implementation of unregulated materials, a working meeting was held, an on-site inspection of the site, where the contracting entity, supervision and Regional Road Management are representatives of the Ministry, of the Road Infrastructure Agency, have carried out an inspection. For the issue of the building permit for the reconstruction and approval of preliminary soil testing by the material engineer has begun the delivery of material, as I said, for the site area of the site. The obtained material from the reclamation, for which the contractor has permission, covers the requirements and for the construction of lower layers of embankment for the roads. The soils of the reclamation have been pre-tested and checked at the Accredited Road Construction Laboratory, Aytos, and there are reports of indicators issued. During the extraction of material and the building of the flood, constant control shall be exercised by the laboratory for both its qualities and the method of laying and sealing of the object. For the tests carried out, protocols are duly formed. Taking over the post of Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, I started by saying that I would hold on to the quality of implementation of the sites that are at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. In conclusion, I would like to inform you that, by my order, the Scientific and Research Construction Institute, which is a 100% state-owned company and is a notified body designated by the European Commission for carrying out tasks related to the assessment of the conformity of construction products in accordance with the requirements of Regulation No 305/2011, will perform a test of the materials used in the construction of the Pomorie Tour, and I will personally inform you of the results.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u208	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the next question by the National Representative Pavel Shopov concerning new lanes for movement in both directions of the highway "Trakiya" in the section of Plovdiv Sofia. Here you are, Mr. Shopov, to develop your question. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, if we can make a grade for the most important road in the country. This is Via Diagonalis in practice, the road connecting Europe with Asia, a road that exists and has been legendary for two thousand years. Two and a half years ago, at the beginning of this governance, of this mandate, in the media, and there were talks with your predecessor, a new, third lane of movement in the Plovdiv section was discussed. In fact, 60 years ago, when the highway was designed this time, and about 50 years ago, when construction started, it reached Novi Khan, as far as there was a third lane of traffic. In recent years, the Plovdiv section has become extremely intense as traffic, there are traffic flows, there are very often incidents and despite the maintenance of the section, there is an extremely high need in Bulgaria to make a decisive of the existing highway reconstruction in the Plovdiv section. Did the work that was discussed in the design of such a reconstruction between Plovdiv continue and if there is a continuation, as is said then, where has the design already started? If not, is there any indication that this reconstruction is intended to take place with three active lanes for movement in the Plovdiv section of Sofia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u210	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Shopov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to assure you that at the heart of all investment intentions for development of road infrastructure is the presumption of providing conditions for safe and speedy movement, for seamless transport communication and comfort of travel. These are guiding principles in the planning and implementation of the Agency's construction-repairing program, which is also in line with the strategic documents concerning transport, infrastructure at national level. Before proceeding to the realization of an idea such as the provision of a third active tape of the highway "Trakiya" in the section of Sofia, Plovdiv should, of course, be done an in-depth analysis, both from the perspective of the possibilities that the existing route provides, wearability, and find a technically sustainable solution for the extension of the route. The results of these actions will justify the financial parameters for carrying out the investment intention. The expansion of the highway will require, of course, many means and arguments in the direction of efficiency, costs, benefits. The highway in the Sofia section is with significant, constant traffic, including heavy cargo. The movement increases in days of rest, the active summer season when a significant number of cars travel to the Bulgarian Black Sea coast. In order to resolve the issue of providing another active lane for movement, a study on the possibilities for its construction should be carried out. Using the emergency lane and turning it into an active motion bar is a hypothesis that is not technically sustained, and that is because when designing a motorway track, a forced stop bar must be provided. At the same time, in the near range of the road nodes, the emergency lane is transformed into a rushing and slowing transmission on the appropriate road node. Another road lane must also be verified through the openings of existing overpasses and underpasses. In the same way, it should also be done to check whether it is possible to build another lane through the Viaducts, possibly at the expense of the emergency lane. It is not irrelevant that through the flat part of the motorway close to its scope there are current irrigation and drainage channels serving rice plants. During the period of construction of the highway there were also trends for implementation of light road construction of the emergency lane. This assumption must be confirmed. It follows from the above that no action should be taken without serious examination to move towards a technical decision. This is why no concrete steps have been taken at this stage related to the preparation of a project for building new lanes for movement in the two directions of the highway.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u212	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u213	Indeed, your answer is literally desperate. My hopes were after intensive talking two years ago that there is something real, that something concrete is happening, and your response shows that you need to explore, to think, to project, in future times. In my question, I didn't think at all about the current backup option, the forced suspension tape, becoming an active motion lane. The idea two years ago, and my question was about building a brand-new active movement band that would ease traffic. However, everyone who travels in this section is aware that traffic is getting heavier, even in some moments it is a nightmare and it is necessary to do one of the reconstructions that were spoken of again, two years ago. In this regard, your predecessor was also very optimistic. Clearly, then all this was a good intention or speech or a press release of journalists who made their materials wishful thinking, but there is nothing specific about it. With this question, I cannot achieve anything more than to try to sharpen the attention of the Ministry, the Road Agency, the factors on which this depends, and to raise the question of a rib with all my responsibility that such an action must be carried out sooner or later. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This is required by life itself, by traffic, and the sooner this happens, the better. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And the obstacles are clear to be removed with the facilities around the road, and with the openings in the mountain or in the plane, the issue of design, of financing and of carrying out this not so complicated but very important road.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u214	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. A hole, Madam Secretary? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u215	Dear Mr. Shopov, there's no question. Just recently, Bulgaria's Prime Minister Mr. Boyko Borisov said that some highways have already been cut off. This is a fact, and we need to work on this. However, there are other priorities relating to the road sector that we are following. It is not a coincidence that at the moment priority is the construction of the highway of Hemus, which is in Northern Bulgaria, and that you will agree with me, should be a priority because of the development of Northern Bulgaria and catching up with the development of South Bulgaria. At the same time, the vertical links are a priority, the one that should connect Vidin and Danube Bridge 2 with the highways of Hemus. All these sites require a lot of money, a lot of effort both at the Road Infrastructure Agency and time for all procedures that need to be carried out. So the expansion of the highway is not an object on which it is not thought, but we need to prioritize in Bulgaria in the road sector we need to make an action plan and prioritize. However, this does not mean that I do not agree with you that the highway has actually expired. This suggests that we have citizens who can afford intensive travel on the roads of Bulgaria, for which we work to have good roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u216	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question to Minister Avramova is from the MP Smilyana Niva-Krusteva on water quality in Simeonovgrad, Haskovo region. You have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u217	Dear Minister, for 12 years the water in Simeonovgrad has been banned from drinking and cooking and the reason for this are the abnormal values of manganese in it. The only solution to the problem is to build a drinking water treatment plant because no other water sources can be found in the area. In 2008, a procedure was initiated by your Ministry for the construction of a new treatment plant, but was terminated. In 2015, a procedure was given to prepare a preliminary study for a water demancipation treatment facility, but to date, the problem has not been solved. My question is: when will funds be provided for the construction of a water treatment plant in Simeonovgrad?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u218	Thank you. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Krasteva, the water supply of Simeonovgrad is from the underground waters from the terrace of the Maritsa River. The water supply system consists of 10 pipe wells, two pump stations, four water tanks with a total volume of 4170 cubic meters, the external water supply of 10,33 km, and an internal water supply network of 51 km. The population of Simeonovgrad is about 6700 people. The monitoring of drinking water in Simeonovgrad has found a real increase in the levels of manganese indicator, which is why from 7 August 2019. Water supply and sewerage haskovo provides water with drinking qualities with tanks of regulated location. The manganese indicator is indicative, with its increase leading to changes in the organics of drinking water. Color, turbidness, smell and taste change. The water supply and sewerage company haskovo will supply water in drinking tanks until the levels of manganese in the water supply system are normalized. I note that the water service operator is monitoring the water in the system, in agreement with the Regional Health Inspectorate Haskovo. The quality of drinking water is controlled throughout the chain from the water source to the crane in the consumer. In the event of non-compliance with the regulatory requirements, state health control authorities shall assess whether there is a health risk and require action. As regards the reduction of manganese in the water supply system of Simeonovgrad and the improvement of water, the Ministry has financed a project of the Municipality of Simeonovgrad to assess the state of the groundwater bodies in the region of Simeonovgrad and the villages of Preslavets, Briagovo, Alexandrovo, Nova Nadezhda, Konstantinovo and Polyanovo to provide water supplies for drinking water supply to these settlements. The project has made six drillings for water supply for drinking water, but, unfortunately, five of them do not meet the standards in terms of chemical and radiological composition and is not suitable for drinking-bit purposes. The water from the sixth well is of satisfactory quality, but with insufficient quantity to meet the needs. The construction of a treatment plant could not be financed through the cost of services provided in the city, given the small population and low consumption. Such a project can be implemented with funds from the municipal budget, from the state budget or from the EU funds under the conditions of the funding programmes. For the construction of a water treatment plant, the Ministry asked the Municipality of Simeonovgrad to provide up-to-date information on the project readiness at the moment, as well as the amount of funds needed to realize the investment intention. We expect to receive this information so that we can plan appropriate funds depending on possible sources of funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u220	Thank you. You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u221	Madam Minister, I have addressed you with this question because it is important not only for the health of the citizens of Simeonovgrad, but it is also a social problem, as many people leave the city and therefore the quality of water. From your response I understand that the water supply haskovo water supply and will provide drinking water to normalize water quality and the level of manganese. However, I did not get an answer when and how will this happen, because the citizens of Simeonovgrad expect a solution to this issue?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u222	Thank you, Ms. Niva. Here you are, Madam Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just said that we expect information from Simeonovgrad Municipality to enable us to understand the degree of design readiness and how much the construction of a treatment plant would cost to solve the manganese problem. Once this information is provided by the Municipality, we will look for sources of funding, of construction of the treatment plant, and you and I may be in operational mode to provide you with this information, so we will look for a solution to the problem once we have clarity on the design readiness and the value of such a project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u224	Thank you, dear Minister. [[Smilyana Niva from BSP for Bulgaria is asking for a replica.]] There's no line. Perhaps I will give you the floor for the next question, and in the context of developing the question, you can start with something else. It's not forbidden. A question from Mrs. Smilyana Niva again about the water supply of the town of Haskovo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u225	Dear Minister, in April 2017, elevated levels of uranium above acceptable standards in the drinking water of the town of Haskovo were established. In May of that year, the government granted 2 million. lv. to build new wells. The municipality says wells are ready and on April 15th this year, additional water supply sites in Haskovo were to be put into operation. At the same time, the municipality's mineral water costs are approaching 1 million. lv. to serve the needs of children's buildings, hospitals and schools. My question is: why has it been two years and five months since the establishment of the elevated levels of uranium in the town of Haskovo not put into operation the sites for additional water supply, namely the new wells?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u226	Thank you, dear Mrs. Niva. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Krasteva, on 11 May 2017, the Council of Ministers adopted Decree No 91 approving additional transfers of 1 million. 930,000. lv. for the municipality of Haskovo for financing of the site of the additional emergency service in the town of Haskovo. On the grounds of the Order and of art. 112, para. Art. 3 and Art. 129, para. 2 of the Public Finance Act was signed Agreement on 11 July 2017 between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Municipality of Haskovo on the transfer of funds. According to the Agreement, all commitments for the implementation of the site are of Haskovo Municipality. The site includes five sub-units: a duplication of four wells in the range of the sanitary and security zone..Northern zone............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Three of the sub-units - four drilling wells in the North zone - two main main plumbing areas have been completed, and they have been granted a permit for use. At present, the remaining four wells have been completed. A process of establishing sanitary protection zones for these sites is ongoing and action will then be taken to put them into service. In terms of how much water quality will be improved, an analysis can be carried out after all sites are put into operation. The quality checks on drinking water will be carried out by the authorities of the Ministry of Health. In this sense, once the entire project is completed and the necessary samples are carried out, we will provide information on this vital issue for the population of Haskovo. In your exhibition you point out that the costs of the mineral water municipality are significant. Here I believe that the priority is the life and health of people, which needs to be taken care of. In fact, it is in the responsibility of Haskovo Municipality to complete this project it is carrying out. The Ministry and the government have allocated the funds, but in fact a contracting entity for the implementation of this project is Haskovo Municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u228	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Ms. Niva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u229	Dear Minister, please answer me if there is an additional time limit within which this process is finally to be completed and all wells such as normal water sources will be put into service in Haskovo City, or will the responsibility remain in the management of the Municipality? The same question was regarding the completion of the final process for the delivery of good mineral water in Simeonovgrad. Is there a fixed time limit for putting these facilities into service?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u230	Thank you, dear Mrs. Niva. For the doppelganger, Mrs. Avramova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u231	Dear Mrs. Krasteva, we as the Ministry, which is the principal of the water companies and to which there is a Directorate of Vikiwa, are following the process. We have provided the funds and our desire to complete the activities of implementation of the entire project as quickly as possible and the introduction of the other wells in operation. We'll continue to monitor the process. We want information about this from Haskovo Municipality, which performs the site. What we have as a last piece of information is that a sanitary security zone is being established and the rest of the wells will be able to be put into service, so we will monitor this process together. We will continue our communication with the Municipality for faster commissioning of the sites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u232	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. Last question to you by the National Representative Nikolay Ivanov about the repair activities and the limitation of the movement on the highway of Hemus. You have the floor to develop your question, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u233	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable MPs! Dear Mrs Avramova, we will talk about deadlines again. In August, the Road Infrastructure Agency announced that it had completed one of the important repairs at the Highway "Hemus". It's about the reconstruction of the viaduct at the 37th kilometer. At the same time, the traffic limit on the motorway continues due to repairs in other areas. From the information I have, it's about four sections, including, of course, those in some of the tunnels. This has already increased serious traffic difficulties. There is hardly any Bulgarian citizen who has not experienced discomfort from this with the clear awareness that the importance of these repairs is great. My question to you is: which sections and what repair activities are being carried out at the moment? More importantly, what deadlines will they be completed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u234	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Madam Minister, for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, in August this year the movement on the Viaduct was really launched............................. at the 51st km of the highway........ Hemus Motorway...................................................................... Repairing of the right lane of the facility was carried out lower and upper construction. The left lane was repaired in 2017. To restore the state of the Viaduct, which as a result of its long-standing exploitation was heavily depreciated, removed all layers of the pavement, asphalt concrete coating, protective concrete, waterproofing, flattening layer, removing the concrete on the pavement blocks. New matching concrete plate, new pavement blocks, new dilatation joints, change of bearings, new waterproofing, asphalt concrete layers, safety fence and railing. In the lower building was the restoration of pillars and chains. On 18 September the reconstruction works on the top construction and bottom construction of the viaduct were completed at 37 km left lane. The repair includes removing all layers from the pavement, asphalt concrete coating, waterproofing, flattening layer, removing the concrete on the pavement blocks, removing the fugues at pillar 4, new connecting plates at pillar 4 and so on. The value of the restoration activities of the viaduct at 37 km amounts to 7 million. 13,000. BGN 909. To date, the renovation activities of four sites from the highway continue...................................................................................................... These are: a road tunnel.Vitynja. a left tube at 32 km; a viaduct at 19 km at the village of Dup; a Viaduct at 36 km and the Shumen section from 393 km to 400 km at the right lane. These repairs are necessary and this stems from the fact that the facilities have not been repaired by their construction, which is too long a service period. Hemus Motorway is an important road artery and the traffic for North and North-East Bulgaria is being conducted and repair and reconstruction activities can no longer be delayed to ensure safe traffic conditions. Thanks to the funds provided by the state budget, the realization of the renovations became possible. The technical qualities of the highway increase, as repaired viaducts will provide not only comfort when travelling, but will meet the highest European criteria for earthquake resistance. An organization of movement has been established, which includes the complete closure of the repaired canvas and the establishment of two-way movement of the other, and for some sections a reversible movement has been introduced depending on the expected intensity of traffic on pre-emptive holidays. The movement from km 30 to km 35 is limited to motor vehicles over 12 tonnes only in the direction of Sofia due to repair and reconstruction activities in tunnel All repair and reconstruction activities of the specified sites, with the exception of the tunnel Vitynya (Vitynya) "left pipe," are scheduled to be completed by mid-December of this year at the latest. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The deadline for completion of the repair of the left tube of the tunnel is by the end of 2020, and I will give you some additional information, if there is time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u236	Now you won't, but I suggest you do it in the back, since you're already answering one minute more. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister Avramova, thank you for your reply. You will, of course, continue with the up-to-date information on specific repair activities in your reply to my reply. I hope that these deadlines will be met, because the impatience of drivers is already great. Indeed, on weekends and pre-emptive days, traffic jams are extremely heavy, even more so when an accident occurs or another problem on the road, the diversion of traffic through the pass is also creating extremely difficult conditions of movement. The condition of the road is extremely bad there. I hope that these deadlines will be met, although the deadline for the completion of a tunnel is not very optimistic at the end of 2020. People get the impression that the performer works slowly, and already folklore gives birth to anecdotes of the variety: Clearly, these repairs are extremely important. My appeal to you is to carry out control of the performance not only of the quality of construction activities but also of the deadlines, so that at last this important section of the highway is fully open to movement because it is extremely important for Northern Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u238	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Avramova, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, since we are fellow citizens and travel in the same direction, I assure you that I am also monitoring the implementation of these repairs in viaducts and the tunnel. Just a brief piece of information I'm going to add to what I've just informed you about. All activities in the above construction of the viaduct at 19 km must be completed by 15 December and the movement of this viaduct must be restored. For Viadukt, Korenishki dol....at 36 km and by 30 November 2019....they must complete the above construction activities in order to be able to restore movement. In the Shumen section Varna all activities on the above construction will be completed on 30 October to restore normal movement. And brief information about the Vitynya Tunnel, which, as you pointed out, has a longer duration of completion. There are serious repair activities being carried out there. The repair and repair activities of the right pipe were completed in 2017. The left that we are currently renovating is with completed partial repair and repair activities. The systems have undergone single tests by planning and tasking the design of a project for the following systems: road system for the removal of flammable liquids; technologies, modifications and additions for the destruction of the third lining; structures; structures with modifications and additions after the Kampad accident 94, geodesy, fire extinguishing, safety and health plan, and so on; construction for fan suspension, traffic control, ventilation, and to the implementation of the planned activities will be initiated after the necessary financial resources are provided. I would like to tell you that, in implementing a European tunnel directive, Vitynya, which is over 1000 meters, we must also make a connection between the two tubes of the tunnel, and we must make both a pedestrian connection and a road connection for fire cars, making the tunnel repair even more complicated. We are working and I hope that by the end of 2020 we will really complete this heavy tube repair and, in fact, the connection between the two pipes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u240	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. That's the end of the question for you. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. If I can afford a piece of advice to you and your team, simply take into account when preparing the answers to the limitations of the Rules, because otherwise we have to restrict you. Thank you again. We are now going to the questions to the Minister of Education Krasimir Valchev. The first question is from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva on prevention of distribution in the public domain of advertising of unlicensed kindergartens. Here you are, Mrs. Halacheva, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, the occasion to ask my question was extremely traumatic. I'm not going to remind you of that so that I don't bring both society and family back to shock. However, the reason for my question remains. The digital space is full of all forms of care for children using the name "Children's Garden" which are not licensed by your Ministry and this creates a real threat to both the life and health of Bulgarian children. So I ask you to answer me: is there a practice in the Ministry of Education and Science to prevent the appearance in the public domain of advertising of unlicensed kindergartens and establishments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u242	Thank you, dear Mrs. Halacheva. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u243	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Halacheva, Ministry of Education and Science maintains a public register of institutions in the system of pre-school and school education. The register contains data on state kindergartens, public and municipal schools, state and municipal centers for special education support and specialized service units, spiritual schools, private kindergartens and private schools. Access to the information in the register shall be provided through the website of the Ministry and any interested person could carry out a check and be informed whether the institution concerned is actually a private kindergarten. The entry of private kindergartens in the public register is a coherent procedure, signed in art. 331 of the Preschool and School Education Act. In this case, a check has been carried out with the injured child in the register, which has not identified the children's establishment committed to caring for the child, to appear as a private kindergarten, or as another institution in the preschool and school education system. An application for entry into the register of institutions by a registered legal person of that childcare establishment has also not entered the Ministry. In accordance with art. 251, para. 4 of the Law on pre-school and school education, the Minister of Education and Science exercises control over the activities of the institutions in the system of pre-school and school education. Children's establishments registered under the Commercial Law, which are not institutions within the meaning of the Law and train children from the age of three until entering the first grade, if they issue a document for completed pre-school training, shall be punished with a fine, respectively with a penalty of 5 to 10 thousand. lv. in accordance with art. 348, para. 1, t. 1 of the Preschool and School Education Act. For projects entering the Ministry of Education, recorded in the register of private kindergartens and private schools, the procedures described in the State Educational Standard for Institutions and the Preschool and School Education Act are strictly followed. If I have to sum up, we have registration, we have a public register and we can only control registered institutions. In most cases, the name of kindergarten is not used. We have many legal entities - either schools or other organizations that organize activities with children. The main prevention that we can do is by reacting to every single case when using the name for kindergarten. We do not have the opportunity to check these institutions, but we can say that in this case we have misleading advertising, because the notions of a kindergarten, a school, have legal meaning, they go with the whole volume of rights, obligations that are described in the Law and the regulation. Institutions with common competence such as the Consumer Protection Commission, the State Agency for the Protection of the Child and others may react in any particular case. Of course, we cannot make sure that we fully replace the responsibility of parents. The parent, especially when it comes to his child, should be cautious, maximum cautious in the choice of kindergarten and do this check in the presence of a public register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u244	Thank you, dear Minister. Would you like the word for a line? Here you are, Mrs. Halacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I have put my question in order to address both the institutions and the public that unfortunately we have let the merchants into the temple and in the brightest temple, namely, who cares for our children, for their lives, health and normal development. I will not comment on any specifics, camps, cooperatives, which you have also spoken about, which are not subject to any regulatory regulation or are registered under the Commercial Law. Mr. Minister, I suggest that you nevertheless actively prevent abuse of the term "Children's Garden." If necessary, I am here to make legislative changes, as for example the Ministry of Interior issues documents for driving, driving documents, and also monitors compliance with their use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u246	Thank you, dear Mrs. Halacheva. Would you like the word for the doppelganger? No. Thank you. We move on to the next question by the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov on the Bulgarian National Database for the academic quotes. Here you are, Mr. Stanilov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u247	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! For several years the Ministry of Education and Science has been conducting a reform which has an official purpose to make the Bulgarian research university community a full participant in the European academic space. Different tools apply to increase and the activity of Bulgarian science. One of these instruments encourages Bulgarian scientists to publish publications, referenced and indexed in world-famous databases of scientific information. Such an instrument gives a good result in highly globalized areas such as medicine, natural sciences or technical sciences, for which language and cultural boundaries are of no importance. At the same time, there is a danger of having a counterproductive effect in humanitarian and social sciences, which should by their nature create in their native language, explore topics that are not interesting to the outside audience, but are extremely important to national identity. In this regard, the need for a system to follow the quotes of Bulgarian publications is particularly acute. The problem has been raised in the last year of several discussions involving Deputy Minister Angeleva. On behalf of the Ministry, it has expressed its readiness to establish a national system for tracking quotes, a national index of citation. A positive opinion was also expressed by Deputy Minister Nikolov, who is responsible for implementing the Law on the academic staff. Such an approach is not a precedent. Two major scientific schools of both Russian and South Korean, which do not write in Latin, have created their own national index and have simultaneously integrated it into the world-famous database with the scientific information Web of Science. The representatives of the same database in Bulgaria are familiar with the discussion and have agreed in principle to integrate a possible Bulgarian index into their system for tracking the quotes. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: what has been done by the Ministry of Education and Science so far to create a National Index of Citations and what funds are planned in budget 2020 for its financial security? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u248	Thank you, dear Mr. Stanilov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stanilov, what you have exposed is very accurate and indisputable. The policy of the Ministry of Education and Science to ensure access of the scientific community in Bulgaria to the most appreciated world content of electronic and scientific publications is regulated in the Act for Promotion of Research. The information contained in the database serves to carry out modern and high-quality research for the benefit of society and the economy. At this stage, there is still no established practice in Bulgaria to track down the entire quote and audience activity of the authors in the scope of social and human sciences, allowing for a fairer measurement of their audience activity. The popularization of the scientific results of the Bulgarian scientists related to the national identity is a prerequisite for increasing the cythography of the publications in Bulgarian language. From March until now the Ministry organized and held a number of discussions with the scientific community on the topic. Specific possible solutions were discussed and agreed to take action by the Ministry both to refine the current legislation in favour of better science and possible approaches to solving the problems of visibility, categorizing the Bulgarian scientific publications and evaluating the quality of publications in the field of social and human sciences. On 10 September 2019 in the Ministry was held another discussion with the scientific community, where in addition to the good practices presented for monitoring and evaluating the scientific results from other European countries, the progress on the implementation of the Project lv. It develops a model of information system to increase the visibility of the publications of authors from Bulgaria and achieve a higher personal index in the field of humanities and social sciences. The system will also contain a quote directory to provide continuous access to the information about the quoted publications in Bulgarian by Bulgarian authors. After the completion of the project, the Ministry will discuss with the scientific community the possibilities for developing and implementing a single national database for the quoted. It will improve the processes, both for impartial and transparent evaluation of the achieved scientific results and will create the best conditions for the implementation of national policies for career growth of scientists in Bulgaria. Meanwhile, during this year, actions have been taken to create institutional storage facilities through the national scientific programme launched in 2018 on Information and Communication Technologies for a single digital market in science, education and security and the National repository and portal for access to open database of scientific information set out in the implementation of the National Information and Documentation Centre. In this way, the Ministry, for its part, will provide free reading access to scientific publications and scientific data on society and business, and, on the other hand, will fulfill the country's commitments to participate in the creation of the European cloud for open science. If I have to summarize, we must make such a platform with the database. This is a difficult undertaking and takes time, as it must be full and reliable enough. We are working in this direction, I have assigned the task at the end of last year to Deputy Minister Angeleva. We are ready to allocate funds from the budget when necessary, except what I have shown you that the insurance under the National Programme and the project is currently funded by the Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u250	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Stanilov? You won't take the floor. Thank you. This concludes the questions to the Minister of Education and Science. Thank you for your participation. Mr. Stanilov put a reasonable question in the parliamentary control message his question was put before Mrs. Halacheva's, but on the official list I have before me is back. I'm gonna go check on why this slip-up happened. We are now moving on to Minister Neno Dimov's questions. Before that, if we may, on behalf of the Members of the National Assembly, congratulate him on his birthday and wish him health and success! And along with that, let's move on to the first question of the MP Jevdet Chakarov on the policy of stopping depopulation in small towns. Here you go, Mr. Chakarov. Let's see if there are any differences in the views of the two ministers you asked on the same topic today. Here you are to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u251	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Dimov, yes, it is important. And the answer we hope to receive, Mr. President, is satisfactory to all of us and especially to the people who live in the middle and small towns. I am optimistic that we will receive a proper response from the Ministry of Environment and Water, but let's say that in May during an architectural conference the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Petya Avramova at her participation there announced that there will be work to stop the depopulation of the middle and small settlements. We share such a position because it is important in order to create conditions. It may have had in mind the construction of the much needed infrastructure in these settlements and competences in this regard more the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. But the Ministry of Environment and Water has some pretty serious options. At this point, the population is concentrated. She pointed out today: nearly 34% live in six large cities with a population of over 100,000, and the trends are not as good as in Greece and other countries. In view of this, Mr Minister, my questions to you are: is the Ministry of Environment and Water planning through the Environmental Action Management Organisation (AMDA) or otherwise taking specific measures to stop depopulation or countering it in medium and small settlements? If so, what are these measures and what are the deadlines for this to happen? Are projects of medium and small settlements currently financed by the PDOOS? If so, would you point out where the type projects are, respectively, with the specific financial resources intended for them, and would the POSO be included with specific measures in a national initiative to stop or counter the depopulation of small and medium-sized settlements? If so, what measures? Is there already a vision to stop or counter the depopulation of the middle and small settlements and whether in the next programming period the Ministry of Environment will include among the beneficiaries of the future Operational Programme such settlements and the funds it has in its budget from the state budget? I would also like to remind you of the election political party GERB announced that there will be a serious fund for building infrastructure precisely in the middle and small settlements, so in the overall macrogram what is envisaged? What could actually happen to help with infrastructure? Naturally, there must be other measures and actions to support the fight to stop and counter the depopulation of small and medium-sized settlements with a view to improving quality and standard of living so that there is a balanced development of all regions in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u252	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u253	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Through you to thank all MPs. Mr. Chakarov, I assume you are familiar with the National Strategy and the documents, so I will not dwell on them. I will try to focus the answer on the four directions in which the Ministry of Environment and Water has specific commitments and rather what they are, and from now on I say that my answer cannot be exhaustive because of time, but I will leave a more comprehensive written answer here. It's just the three minutes that limit me. The four areas concerned are improving the cleanliness of the environment, namely air, water, soil, development of the national environmental monitoring system, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions through funded programmes under the National Trusted Ecofund and the use of natural resources from protected areas and national parks. In this context, the Environmental Action Management Company financed several fields of environmental protection, which started with the environmental clean air, water, water, and several measures were financed there. The first is the conservation and improvement of water resources. By means of funds from the Environmental Management Organisation, projects are implemented at small water supply sites, the water supply and sewerage network of nearly 56 million. lv. and cover about 651,000 residents, including Burgas with two projects, Kirkovo, Pernik, Valcedrum, Devin, Lesichovo with two projects, Gotse Delchev, Dobrich, Mistridge, Mirkovo and Glavinitsa, Yakimovo and Gorna raspberry, Rakovski, Samokov, Burgas with one more project, Septemvri, Pravets, Gotse Delchev, Sevlievo, Varna, Stambolian, Etropole, Madan, Dupnitsa, Suvorovo, that is to say you see a variety of large, and small, and medium-sized. The next measure is the construction of a regional facility for environmentally friendly treatment and disposal of waste. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. BGN covering a population of 480 thousand inhabitants. Here among the municipalities, which I can quote, are Byala Rusensko, Blagoevgrad, Smolyan, Oryahovo and Petrich. The next measure is the closure and regeneration of existing landfills or municipal waste facilities which do not comply with the requirements of the existing regulations. As of August 2019 52 million were allocated. lv. to a total of 31 projects for municipalities. The next is Research and development of pilot models for environmentally friendly collection and temporary storage of hazardous waste from households. The project is implemented under the Bulgarian-Swiss programme and is worth about 15 million. lv. 360 thousand inhabitants are covered, and here we are talking about the municipalities of Shumen, Levski, Razgrad, Sozopol, Unity, Veliki Preslav, Smyadovo, Kaspichan, Hitrino, Loznitsa, Samuel, Isperih, Testament, King Kaloyan, Pordim, Nikopol, Belene, Maritsa, Kaloyanovo, Hissar. The last measure I will mention is the implementation of measures for environmentally friendly disposal of obsolete pesticides and other plant protection products with an expired expiry date, also under the Bulgarian-Swiss programme, with a budget of 40 million. BGN, the disposal is for 4387 tonnes and will cover a population of more than 2 million and 200,000 inhabitants. For the past 15 years, you know very well that the company is also conducting the Clean Environment campaign, as beneficiaries are municipalities and mayors with funding of up to 10 thousand. lv. and schools and kindergartens with funding up to 5,000. BGN, each year 3.5 million is allocated. lv. for this program. In the current year funding received 475 projects, 326 are in settlements below 10,000 inhabitants. Specifically for a municipal environmental protection program, if you ask me an additional question, I'll fit in over time, but I think it's already expired.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u254	It's your birthday today, I won't interrupt, but you can really move on in the back. [[Radio.]] Here you are, Mr. Chakarov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u255	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Dimov, thank you for your reply, but I would like to make a note at the same time. In fact, it is good that there are a lot of medium-sized settlements, small settlements, you pointed out large settlements, and in the question I asked you, I meant really for the next programming period to include real and really medium-sized and small settlements. Naturally, this depends on the preparation, consultation and dialogue that will take place with the European Commission, but at the present stage on the major cities that you have pointed out, they have opportunities under a number of operational programmes to apply, so that the sources of funding to the maximum must be used and implemented in this way. The aim of my question is to see what opportunities it has in view of a direct effect on the quality and standard of people, of our fellow citizens who live in the middle and small settlements. When I asked your colleague Avramova a question during parliamentary control, I said that it is good to make a strategy apart from these two ministries and from other ministries that have competence to form relevant policies. This is a serious problem for all of us. We should not look closely here, and we are not really just looking through the policy framework and interests for the people we represent from the DPS. Depopulation is a very serious trend, it is a serious, national problem and case. In view of this, I think it is good to build a strategy, but to be meaningful and effective and to achieve results on improving the quality and standard of people, to keep young people even to return them to medium and small settlements, to develop all regions. If we concentrate in the big cities, this leads to a depopulation of these places, secondly, additional problems for the big cities. We already have serious problems with air cleanliness, communication, traffic, environmental pollution in all components, so the case is really very serious and is a very serious challenge. We should not be divided into government and opposition here. It is good to have a serious discussion and debate with which to build such a strategy, as I have just said, to be meaningful, effective, to achieve the objectives, and they are precisely an improvement in the quality and standard of people living in these settlements, by the way, as is in most of the Member States of the European Union. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] When traveling to not point to specific countries, one cannot distinguish between infrastructure in large cities in Europe and the middle and small, that even in villages away from large centres. We must also achieve this in the name of a better life, even if we bring our fellow citizens back to Bulgaria, who are currently outside the country. I hope we can all do this together, and you, Mr. Minister, are in particular responsible in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u256	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u257	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chakarov, I completely agree with you. This is not a matter of left, right, center, it is a matter of national identity, security and future. So from this point of view, I completely agree. You know that this is one of the priorities of the United Patriarchs in particular of the IMRO, which I represent. One of the things I did specifically, I just didn't have time for the restriction, but now I'm gonna take it. You know, I've had cases to answer to you in the Commission that since January 1st this year we've given the opportunity to finance two to ten thousand, something that hadn't entered last year. So this is all directed in this direction. In general, looking at the development of the Operational Programme and what will be assigned in the next programming period, local communities are a key element because the local community is the one who lives in every place and has to make the decisions in this place. When you make a decision, you have to do it, which means you have to have financial resources to do it. Of course, here the combination between national policy, if you will, European policy, on the one hand, and regional or local policy, is extremely difficult. We need to find this Sanegra, and here we are not just talking about the waters that were mainly covered, here we are talking about the circular economy, which practically covers all spheres of influence. Within the Ministry we think very actively in this direction. Of course, this must be done not by the government or by the opposition, I really agree, and as broad a conversation as possible, in which citizens will be able to be the closest to what we aim, namely the preservation and, more precisely, the suspension and recovery of the demographic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u258	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the last question of today's parliamentary control by the National Representative Stanislav Vladimirov on pollution of the dam. You have the floor, Mr. Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, in the last few weeks we have received dozens of signals from citizens about the pollution of Pchelina Dam, the extinction of fish in the dam and in the Struma River. On August 30, citizens alerted for open mesh foam stains, for cloudy and brown water in the dam, as well as for dead fish near the shore. Fishing for several days, including the past week, signaled a number of dead fish in the waters of Pchelina Dam, as well as in the Struma River. During this whole time different associations continue to send signals to the institutions, but in their words there are no real actions to prevent pollution. Dear Minister, I recall that the Struma River under the Pchelina Dam falls within a protected area under the Habitats Directive designated for the conservation of priority species and habitats. In this regard, my question to you is: what measures have been taken by the Ministry of Environment and Water with regard to the sustainable solution of the pollution problems of the dam
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u260	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u261	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Vladimirov! The Ministry of Environment and Water has set out long-term measures in 2010 to address the problems of water pollution in the country, including the waters of Pchelina Dam. In 2010, the first river basin management plans were adopted, which are updated every six years. These plans for each body determine the ecological and chemical condition or rather the potential. The dam is a water body rated with poor environmental potential according to the current river basin management plan. Deviations are of the biological elements of quality and the main physical-chemical indicators. Following the last signal received on September 6th, 9 September, the Executive Agency carried out new measurements. The dissolved oxygen has been found to be below the minimum threshold. A high water temperature has been reported at 23.6 degrees on the surface, 21.3 degrees at 7 meters deep. The excesses of the indicators of biological demand for oxygen, nitrogen and phosphorus indicate domestic and fecal contamination, and the excess of ammonium nitrogen for fresh domestic and fecal contamination. The ammonia standard is exceeded 18 times in the surface water sample and 7 times in the depth sample at 7 meters. A permanent solution to water pollution problems can be discussed after the completion of construction, reconstruction and modernisation of the sewage system and the City Waste Water treatment plant in the town of Pernik. In August this year I signed a contract with the water and sewer infrastructure. With the implementation of the project the collection of waste water will be extended, water losses in the water supply network will be reduced and the water supply of the population will be improved. The project will build and reconstruct the sewage network to take the water to the reconstruction of the Cleaning Station in the town of Batanovtsi. Realized activities will improve the ecological condition of the water supply, namely the Struma River. The total investment amount is 105 million. BGN, of which 78.6 million are from Operational Programme "Environment". In addition, a review of discharge permits and complex permits is under way. I have explicitly assigned strict control of all permits and, in the event of non-compliance, immediate measures to be taken. One more thing, last October, I commissioned individual emission limits for discharge of waste water in surface water sites. Once ready, a procedure for amending Ordinance No 2 of 8 July 2011 on the issue of authorisations for discharge of waste water in water sites and the determination of individual emission limits on point sources of pollution began. This will set stricter waste water standards, discharges in surface water sites. The implementation of all these measures is key to the permanent improvement of the condition of the dam. The analysis of the results of the implementation of the measures will be included in the new river basin management plans currently being developed, together with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u262	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u263	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I am partly pleased that you did not go in the direction of replying to me in the way your Swimming Directorate and RIEW Pernik responded. The ridiculous explanations that the lack of oxygen at the dam is that the dam is oversufferable and the fish have breathed out their air, I think it is not serious to be an explanation by employees and a clerk who claims to have competence. I am glad that you have found that there is pollution at the dam, that you are taking the first steps to discover these perpetrators, because today, I have told you just now, I have a signal that the Struma River runs black in the city area and that the local RIEW is once again with chaotic actions and not with specifics to determine who is responsible. I've prepared another series of dead fish shoots for you, with the different colors the Struma River flows with. I'll give them to you. I will monitor every action of your Ministry and especially of RIEW Pernik, because I told you, this is one of the weakest places in your Ministry. Last week, we were dealing with air quality. Your unit in Pernik, unfortunately, does not see energy, I do not see the will to actually prevent it from solving the problems, and not to go after the events, as is the case with this genocide, as an association called it, which is trying to manage and guard by poachers dam. I am also glad that you did not again enter into the tone of your subordinates who wanted to pass the blame on to those volunteers who volunteered to end the long-standing poaching at the Pchelina Dam and to identify all those perpetrators who pollute the Pchelina Dam. I hope these people will be your partners, and not your subordinates will hardly transfer from the healthy head to the sick head, as was the case with these people for being guilty of lack of oxygen at the dam.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u264	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u265	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vladimirov, a few things. First, you know that the dam itself is designed as a sedimentary dam.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u266	He's become one. He's been production-deprecating.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u267	Yeah, it's a production run. As far as I've been informed, since 1970, it's been designed to collect water and settle down from all the heavy industry that was back then in Pernik and Radomir. What I do know is that about 60% of its useful volume is actually no longer, it's filled, it's backed up. When we talk about the measures to be taken, we must also bear in mind this pollution. Colleagues have no reason to talk about fishing and overfishing, as far as we have no competence in this area and we cannot pronounce ourselves competently. What I know for sure is that neither with the Regional Inspection nor with the Swimming Directorate is agreed, because the samples for a long time have shown pollution, which I have quoted today and which is problematic for the lives of fish and low oxygen, and the corresponding temperature. When doing such hooking, it is good to be coherent so that people who are hooking know what they have to predict what type of fish to put in. Again, we have no competence in this area and it is not right to comment. I understand your remark, I'll pass it on the proper way. What I mentioned last year was that I had stricter standards made. The regulation is from 2011, we are now 2019. In eight years there has been no update. There will be stricter standards and they have already been made. It's just that the regulation needs to be changed and that way we can also change the permits I talked about, the complexes and these discharges to have a stricter criterion. Again, as far as domestic and fecal pollution is concerned, and fresh and old, the main thing to see is that we have to solve this problem. We've also started joint inspections with the VAC. Either way, I'll keep you posted on other cases as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-20.u268	Thank you, dear Minister. That concludes parliamentary control for today. The next meeting of the National Assembly will be on 25 September 2019, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
