ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Good afternoon, Mr. Stoinev! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will present to your attention a draft work programme for the National Assembly, March 20, 2019. "1." Projects of decisions to complete the compositions of Standing Committees. Importer is the national representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov on 15 March 2018. 2. Election of President, Vice-Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission. The selection procedure shall be in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 21 February 2019. 3. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 25 October 2018. 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2019. 5. Hearing of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the following: The Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure, which introduces the requirements of Directive 2014/61, provides for the creation of a Single Information Point, how this platform will function and how it will meet the objectives of the Law The people's representative Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 15 March 2019. 6. Second vote on the Law on the Protection of Commercial Secrets. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2019. Adopted in first vote on 6 February 2019. Point 1 for Thursday 21 March 2019 7. Hearing of the Minister for Youth and Sports on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the Policy of the Ministry of Youth and Sports under the Programme for financial support for activities in conducting international competitions in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The representatives of the National Assembly are Stefan Apostolov and Georgi Dinev on 15 March 2019. Point 2 for Thursday 21 March 2019 8. First vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Cadastral and Property Register. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 1 March 2019. Point 3 for Thursday 21 March 2019 9. Hearing of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the progress in the construction of highways and roads in Bulgaria. Importer is the People's Representative Alexander Nenkov on 19 March 2019. Point 4 for Thursday 21 March 2019 10. The election of a sub-manager of the Bulgarian National Bank's Head of Management. The selection procedure is in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 8 March 2019. Point 1 for Friday 22 March 2019 11. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of a candidate for a vice-president, head of management, and of a candidate for a vice-president, head of management, insurance supervision, the Commission for Financial Supervision, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. Importer is the Committee on Budget and Finance, point 2 for Friday, 22 March 2019. 12. Hearing of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on measures taken and planned, new services and actions in the labour market, including within the framework of the active labour market policy to increase the supply and quality of the workforce and to reduce discrepancies in the labour market. The representatives of the National Assembly are Svetlana Angelova, Ralitsa Dobreva and Rumen Genov on 15 March 2019. Point 3 for Friday 22 March 2019 13. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the so-read Project for this week's programme. Vote 141 MPs: 129, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 13 March 2019 to 19 March 2019: Report on the activities of the Fiscal Council of Bulgaria for 2018. Importer is the Chairman of the Fiscal Council. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Importer is the national representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Importer is the national representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act. Importers are the national representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Education and Science. Messages: Honourable Members of Parliament, in relation to documents received from the European Parliament adopted during its monthly sessions, a module of documents of the European Parliament was created on the website of the National Assembly in the Section of the European Union. It shall publish all documents submitted by the European Parliament. In the implementation of the Plan for the preparation of the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2019 from 26 March to 12 April 2019 at Plovdiv airport will be held a flight training course. ..................................................... In relation to this and on the grounds of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by its order on the grounds of art. 13, para. 1, t. 1, t. 3 of the same law and art. 64, p. 2 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria has authorised the participation of: 1. Allied forces and means (aircraft with their crews and providing staff) by the armed forces of the Republic of Lithuania, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Czech Republic and the Kingdom of Spain, as well as representatives of the European Centre for Tactical Air Transport and representatives of the European Air Transport Command. 2. Special Forces shall reside on board foreign military aircraft for the purpose of exchange of experience, coordination of tasks and implementation of procedures used by NATO and the European Union military transport services. The exercise is not related to the conduct of military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the carrying out of activities to prevent military action conducted by other (other country or organisation) armed forces. The notification was received on 14 March 2019 and was made available to the Defence Committee. The National Assembly adopted Decision No 313 of 7 March 2019 on the file No KZK 982/2018 of the Commission for Protection of Competition, which adopted a Sectoral analysis of the competitive environment of the market for the production and realization of car gasoline and diesel. The material shall delete the information indicated by market participants as a trade secret. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee for Monitoring Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling, the Committee on Energy, the Committee on Agriculture and Food and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and is available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. The decision has been published on the Commission's website. In the National Assembly on the basis of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act have received: Report on the implementation of the Ministry of Tourism's programming budget as of 31 December 2018. Report on the implementation of the Ministry of Justice's programming budget for the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 Report on the Programme Budget of the Ministry of Interior for 2018 Report on the implementation of the 2018 programming budget of the State Agency for Industrial Operations. The reports are made available to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the relevant portfolio committees and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. And the latest announcement for today from the National Statistical Institute received information about: inflation and indexes of consumer prices for February 2019. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues, before we move on to today's agenda, I will read you Decision No 5171-NS to announce Georgi Nikolov Vergiev as a MP from the Thirteenth Election Region of Pazardzhishki. By letter I went in. Decision of the National Assembly of 14 March 2019 on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are terminated the powers of Slavcho Georgiev Velkov as a MP from the Thirteenth Election Region of Pazardzhishki, raised from the list of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria in the 44th National Assembly. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1 and Art. 1 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announces Georgi Nikolov Vergiev with the respective EGN as a MP in the 44th National Assembly of the list of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria from the Thirteenth Election Region of Pazadzhiski. The Quaestors, please invite the People's Representative to the Chamber. Colleagues, please stand up so Mr. Virgil can swear. [[Everyone gets up.]] Please repeat after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u2	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u3	Congratulations! Colleagues, please take your seats. We are continuing our work on today's agenda. There was an affidavit on behalf of a group. Mr. Toshev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On 18 March, 15 years have come from the adoption of the Law on ratification of the North Atlantic Treaty. On this day in 2004 the 39th National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria voted ratification. The President of the Republic signed the promulgation decree, in an extraordinary number of the Official Gazette. The Law was published, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the President of the National Assembly signed the ratification documents and the ratification procedure ended. It's said a lot, and you could say about this momentous day. Allow me to remind you by quoting the first sentences of the speakers in this House for this day. The Third National Assembly is responsible for accepting the most significant act in its term of office. The ratification of the North Atlantic Treaty of 1949 made the decisive step towards the implementation of one of Bulgaria's main foreign policy priorities. With the accession to the North Atlantic Treaty organization one of the strategic goals of Bulgaria is realized. Membership in the Alliance represents stability in troubled times, which also leads to more prosperity. Bulgaria has reached the final of a long road, which has been travelled thanks to the successive efforts of several Bulgarian governments, composed at national meetings, Bulgarian presidents, the majority of the Bulgarian society. Three governments and two parliaments targeted, supported and developed a national effort designed to change Bulgaria's international status, to ensure its future, to make it part of the protective system of the modern world. The ratification of the North Atlantic Treaty is a great victory of the Bulgarian democratic forces. She fulfilled a dream of our young civil society. Everyone had to go their way to NATO and we did. This is a significant day for Bulgaria, when we take the biggest step to break away from the past and open a new page in our history. Bulgaria's accession to NATO means, above all, collective security, stability and prosperity. We Bulgarians have proven that we can achieve strategic goals. Recognizing the merit of all who worked for today, we call on the political forces for greater constructiveism, as NATO creators have united in the Transatlantic military-political Union as a barrier to the possible danger of a possible third world war. The importance of Euro-Atlantic integration is growing. Modern threats, including hybrid warfare, require new approaches in NATO policy. Cooperation between NATO and the European Union must be deepened. GERB supports the Alliance's open door policy, believing that Euro-Atlantic integration achieves long-term stability in candidate countries. The biggest responsibility is the responsibility of the Political Party GERB. The party, which for the third time received the voter confidence and which, together with its coalition partners, bears the responsibility for the country's governance. The armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria are part of the NATO armed forces. We're part of NATO. Bulgaria shall build its armed forces in accordance with art. 3 of this contract, and its defence national strategy by relying on art. 5 of the Treaty. For 15 years, we have been proving to our NATO partners that we are worthy, predictable ally and that we share the democratic values of the Alliance. The current dynamics on the international stage pose challenges to European and global security. The cooperation between NATO and the European Union is an integral part of European security and defence. A stronger European Union and a stronger NATO, they strengthen each other. The need for the European Union to act as a global player is highlighted. Against this background, it is imperative that the European Union remains united. Strategic autonomy is needed, as defined in the Global Strategy. This requires a reliable, common security and defence policy, effective and effective action to develop sound defence capabilities of the European Union. We must avoid duplication of efforts and structures of both unions and ensure a stronger Europe within NATO. Strengthening political dialogue at all appropriate levels and deepening cooperation is essential. In the spring, we updated our National Security Strategy. We included new policies, including cybersecurity and crisis management policies. We have a national defence budget plan of 2% of gross domestic product. The funds are planned and provided in accordance with the state's capabilities and should contribute to the resolution of urgent personnel problems, to the purchase of arms and fighting equipment, to combat training, to operations, to the purpose of capabilities. We voted in the National Assembly the three major modernization projects of the army. We as MPs at this stage did what was necessary. The Ministry of Defence is moving forward with the procedures for signing contracts and implementing projects: 2018 and 2019 may and should be years for practical implementation of the Army's modernization. A significant amount of money has been set aside and there is a fair expectation of visible results in our society. These steps are in full sync with NATO's decisions. They are an element of consistent policy embedded in the Programme for Government Management of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021. And here we see the role of the National Assembly to go even further - to work for a lasting consensus on the main issues of security and defence, to ensure the necessary stability and continuity in building defence capabilities. We all have our political biases, we express and believe in the values of our parties and we insist on being accountable to our constituents, but when it comes to national security, our country's involvement as a predictable and loyal partner in the processes of preserving peace and order in international relations, we must work for a lasting consensus in the long term, for the truth about the decisions that we have made ourselves and for which we ourselves are responsible. With this declaration from the political party parliamentary group GERB, we call on you to be constructive and responsible for national security issues, the protection of the country and its future, together to find the best solutions for Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. Here you are, Mr. Tsonev, for a declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Let's also note on behalf of the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. This 15th anniversary, which, on behalf of the AG of GERB, was marked with a written declaration, not because we want to write down the name of the parliamentary group of DPS, but to remind us, first, some facts, and, secondly, to put some of the necessary things at the forefront of today. Yes, indeed 15 years ago a strategic goal of Bulgaria became a fact. However, let us recall that this strategic objective became a fact after all the political forces united their efforts and put this as a major priority for implementation before the country, regardless of who is ruling. I will return a little further back and remind you in the early 1990s when our Honorary President Dr. Ahmed Dogan uttered the famous phrase that Bulgaria's path to Europe passes through the Bosporus, and then everyone jumped him, so to speak, of slang, not understanding his strategic vision of Bulgaria. And I will recall what happened when we actually submitted, so to speak, my wish as a country for membership in the Alliance. What was the first country to support us for membership in the Alliance? [[Heckling]] Turkey! That's right, mate! Turkey has supported us. [[Noise and lines.]] And the words that Bulgaria's path to Europe passed through the Bosporus came true. [[Replications. Invocations.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u7	Please be quiet, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u8	Words have come true, and the facts of history cannot be changed, but that is not the point. Another thing is that today's weather is the same as in the '90s. The country faces the need to outline new strategic goals, new vision, new priorities behind which to stand all the political forces and those who are in parliament, and those who are outside the parliament, because this story with NATO and the European Union is absolutely eloquent that Bulgaria achieves its goals only when absolutely everyone stands behind them, and not when one, second or third party, and the others do not! And that is why we have been saying the same thing for two years: Bulgaria has no direction for 10 years! Bulgaria hasn't had priorities for 10 years that all the political forces have stood behind! Bulgaria is wandering between its European present and its nationalist future, including and maintaining movements, which in Europe call the....................................................................................... [[(YELLING TO THE RIGHT: (LAUGHS)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u9	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u10	That is why our call to all the political forces is to sit at the table and start talking again about Bulgaria's priorities, as we did in the 1990s and because of which we managed to achieve the most important things Bulgaria achieved in the transition... membership in NATO and membership in the European Union. And otherwise, on the right hand side, you can yell whatever you want, you can yell whatever you want. The story is before you and it is already appreciated. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u11	Declaration by Mr. Mareshki from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodolists. Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, our Honorary and Real Chairman Veselin Mareshki has long told you that patriotism is what will save Bulgaria. The examples in history are the more distant, not the close history, not the shameful history that has made Bulgaria poor and corrupt, but the slightly more distant when we have freed ourselves from slavery when we fought for Bulgaria to have it on the map of Europe, are really a reality and it is nice to look at them, to see more of this story than the one we are not satisfied with. We are glad that other parliamentary groups, in the case of the DPS, support our proposals for Bulgaria to be gathered, Bulgarian politicians should work for Bulgaria's priorities, only for these priorities to make Bulgaria a rich and prosperous state, the Bulgarian people a prosperous people. These are the real priorities that can bring us together at a table with any political party, not those priorities that we now boast that we have fulfilled, but the Bulgarians suffer, Bulgaria is in line in the European Union! Therefore, once again, we call on all Bulgarian parties and the parliamentary parties represented and the non-parliamentary ones to write down the new priorities, but those who will give a quick jump in the development of Bulgaria, a quick feeling by every Bulgarian in his pocket, that there is a sense of these priorities for which we have gathered, in the fastest way to implement them, and regardless of which party and which majority will come to power in the coming years, they will join together and implement them. In this makes sense the priorities that the Bulgarian feels in his pocket, the state stands proudly among the other European countries on the map of Europe. This is the point at all of our sitting here in Parliament and the existence of all political parties. Thank you. [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Any other declarations on behalf of parliamentary groups? I can't see. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: PROJECTS OF RESPONSIBILITY DECISIONS. On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 88, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly has been submitted a draft decision to fill the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Importer is the national representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Lilyana Pavlova as a member of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. Please, voting mode. 125 MPs voted: 125, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I would like to offer you another suggestion: On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 88, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been submitted a draft decision to fill the Committee on Legal Affairs. Project! DECISION completing the composition of the Committee on Legal Affairs The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Ljiljana Pavlova as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs Please vote on the proposal so made. They voted 122 MPs: for 122, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we move on to the next item on the agenda: SELECTION OF THE PRESENT, THE DEPARTMENT OF THE PRESENTAL AND THE SECRETAR OF THE CENTRAL ELECTRONIC COMMISSION. I will now read you the rules of procedure adopted by which we must move towards this choice. Election of Chairman, Deputy...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u14	Procedure, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u15	Yes, of course, Mr. Kirilov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u16	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Before the Rules of Procedure, I will make a procedure for admission to plenary on the basis of Section V. 1 sentence second of the decision of the National Assembly on the adoption of Rules of Procedure under the terms and procedure for proposing members of the Central Election Commission, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and their hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs, the proposal and election of a President, Vice-Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission, adopted on 21 February 2019 and promulgated in the Official Journal of the European Union, pk. 16 of 22 February 2019, for the admission of the following candidates for Chairman, Vice Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission: Stefka Savova Stoeva, candidate for President of the CEC, proposed by the Parliamentary Group Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs; Tanya Nikolova Yosifova, candidate for Vice-President of the Central Election Commission, proposed by the National Representative Valeri Simeonov, representing the Parliamentary Group............................................................................................................................................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Please vote on Mr. Kirilov's proposal for admission. They voted 122 MPs: for 122, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please invite the candidates to the Chamber. Colleagues, I will read you the rules of procedure for the election of President, Vice-Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission: "1." The meeting of the National Assembly is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates may be present in the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall submit a report to the hearing held. 3. Candidates shall be submitted by an importer of the proposal for a Chair, Vice-Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission in an exhibition within two minutes. 4. Debate on the nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be held. 5. The National Assembly shall elect separately the President, Vice-Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission. 6. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for one position, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 7. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the highest number of votes for the House shall be elected. 8. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 9. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. I give the floor to Mr. Kirilov to present the Commission's report at the hearing of the candidates. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members, honourable candidates for President, Vice Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on hearing the proposed candidates as members of the Central Election Commission At its meeting held on 14 March 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs held a hearing of the proposed candidates for members of the Central Election Commission, in accordance with Section IV of the National Assembly's Decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing members of the Central Election Commission, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and their hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs, the proposal and election of a Chair, Vice Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission, adopted on 21 February 2019, SG No. 16 of 22 February 2019 The meeting was attended by Transparency Association without borders. The President of the Committee on Legal Affairs submitted the procedure for holding a hearing of candidates for members of the Central Election Commission in accordance with Section IV of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Kirilov noted that proposals for members of the Central Election Commission from NGOs have been received in the National Assembly. He pointed out that Mr. Dimitar Dimitrov was proposed by the Management Board of the Bulgarian Political Science Association. Mr. Todor Galunov was proposed by the Association of National Movement for Bulgarian Citizens and Mrs. Todor Galunov was nominated by the Association for Human Rights. It was added that to the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria is a proposal from the Association of the Professional Association of State Employees, which proposes Mrs. Kamelia Neykova's candidacy. All the proposals received are made to the MPs and the parliamentary groups. The President of the Committee on Legal Affairs pointed out that within the time limit laid down in the Rules of Procedure twenty proposals were received for members of the Central Election Commission made by MPs, parliamentary groups, as well as parties and coalitions that have been selected with their candidate lists members of the European Parliament. He added that all required documents are presented to the proposals under Section I. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, which are published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. After verification of the submitted documents it is established that all candidates meet the conditions of art. 50, para. 1 of the Election Code for the Membership of the Central Election Commission. In accordance with Section III of the Rules of Procedure, a check has been carried out under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and on the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The check under art. 25 of the Law has not established the membership of the candidates for members of the Central Election Commission, and the results are reflected on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. After an official inspection carried out according to the requirements of art. 50, para. 3, p. 1 of the Election Code found that candidates for members were not convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature and were not exempted from criminal liability for a deliberate crime. The results of the check are published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. The French-Bulgarian Forum has addressed questions to candidates for members of the Central Election Commission. On the basis of Section IV, p. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, the hearing shall be held in accordance with the procedure in which applications are made. The candidate for a member of the Central Election Commission Mr. Ivaylo Ivkov was presented by Mr. Dimitar Delchev, representing a coalition of parties. He pointed out that Mr. Ivkov has more than 26 years of legal experience, in his professional development he has pleaded to all judicial institutions of the Republic of Bulgaria and has serious experience in the field of sports law with international arbitration and bodies. Mr. Delchev pointed out that Mr. Ivkov is a member of the Central Election Commission since March 2014 and has skills and experience in producing all kinds of elections, local and national referendums. The candidate added that the candidate is an exceptional professional, has a serious reputation and is a worthy candidate for a member of the Central Election Commission. In his presentation Mr. Ivkov added that he has experience in the electoral process, as he is a member of the current Central Election Commission, adding that a challenge in the work of the new composition will be machine voting and cybersecurity measures. He noted that to increase confidence in the Central Election Commission, it is necessary to respect the principles of independence, impartiality and competence. In response to the questions asked Mr. Ivkov explained that he had experience in holding elections, trained members of election committees and added that his work as an arbitrator in UEFA is compatible with his activities in the Central Election Commission. National Representative Krastina Taskova presented Mrs. Kristina Tsankova-Stefanova's candidacy as a member of the Central Election Commission. She pointed out that the candidate for a member, proposed by the parliamentary group Volja, is a master of economics and management of the trade in specialized finance and banking and has 14 years of experience in the banking sector. Ms. Tsankova-Stefanova has been a long-standing bank branch manager and financial analyst, as her professional experience passes into three banking institutions. Since 2017, she has been a member of the Central Election Commission. Ms. Stefanova emphasized on the need to conduct trainings to target both the members of the electoral committees and the voters themselves. Ms. Katya Ivanova's candidacy as a member of the Central Election Commission, proposed by Coalition "Bulgaria without censorship," VMRO-GNI, Agricultural People's Union, Gergyovden Movement, was presented by Mr. Yavor Haytov, who pointed out that Mrs. Ivanova is a current member of the Central Election Commission and has more than 30 years of legal experience as a lawyer in the Lawyer's College. He added that Mrs. Ivanova is a Master of Law from the Faculty of Law at Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski and holds an additional professional qualification. Master of International Relations.... European Union law....with specialty....International relations. In her presentation Mrs. Ivanova emphasized on her previous work as a member of the Central Election Commission and made a recommendation for compliance with the principle of continuity in the composition of the Central Election Commission. National Representative Hamid Hamid presented Mrs Sevinc Solakova's candidacy as member and secretary of the Central Election Commission, proposed by the parliamentary group Movement for Rights and Freedoms. He pointed out that Mrs. Solakova is a lawyer with more than 20 years of legal internship, graduated from the Law Faculty of Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski, with specialization in international relations. Its professional path passes as a legal consultant, Secretary of Legal Affairs of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria in the period 1997 and as Director of the Directorate of Legal Affairs in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. She was a member of the Central Election Commission in the period 1995-2005 and from 2011 until now she was appointed Secretary of the Central Election Commission. When presenting her views on the work of the Central Election Commission, Mrs. Solakova focused on the independence of the state body to become a guarantor of free, fair, transparent, democratic and legal elections to secure the electoral rights of all Bulgarian citizens. According to Mrs. Solakova, it is necessary to ensure stability of the electoral rules, not to forget the challenges related to information security. Mr. Erhan Chaushev's candidacy as a member of the Central Election Commission, proposed by the Parliamentary Group of He pointed out that the candidate has graduated from the Law Faculty of Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski and has worked as a legal consultant in the Metal Structures Board.Sofia, Sofia, and Chimko.Sc.Vratsa, has been a member of the Supervisory Board of the Agency for Post-Privatization Control in the period 2002 - 2010 and from 2007 until now is a member of the Central Election Commission. Mr. Chaushev emphasized on the need for more effective training of the members of the electoral committees and the simplification of didactic materials and added that a major challenge in the upcoming European elections will be the introduction of machine voting, the provision of technical specialists and security, the preservation and logistics of machinery, the development of technical specification and the preparation of procurement documents. National Representative Emil Dimitrov presented Mr. Boycho Arnaudov's candidacy as a member of the Central Election Commission, proposed by the MPs Valeri Simeonov, Iskren Veselinov, Yavor Notev, Christian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov. Mr. Dimitrov said that Mr. Arnaudov is a master in international relations and law with acquired legal capacity and added that the candidate has gained professional experience by consistently occupying the positions of a legal consultant, senior expert in the cabinet of the Secretary General of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and in the period 2014. 2016 he was an expert in the Directorate of the State Agency for Refugees at the Council of Ministers. The MP added that Mr. Arnaudov is a member of the Central Election Commission since 2016. In his presentation Mr. Arnaudov added that he was elected a member of the Central Election Commission in an active electoral period in 2016 and was an observer in elections in 2017. Ms. Tanya Yosifova's candidacy as a member and vice-president of the CEC, proposed by the MPs Valeri Simeonov, Iskren Veselinov, Yavor Notev, Christian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov, was presented by Mr. Christian Mitev. He pointed out that Mrs. Yosifova is an associate professor at the Law Faculty of the University of National and World Economy with over 19 years of legal internship and added that she has graduated from the Law Faculty of Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski. National Representative Hristian Mitev added that since 2008 Ms. Yosifova has been an associate professor of civil and family law and is a lecturer at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior and Southwestern University of Neofit Rilski, with a number of monographs, research articles and studios. He clarified that since 2008 the candidate has been an arbitrator of the Arbitration Court of the Bulgarian Industrial Association and since 2010 has been registered as an attorney at the Sofia Bar Association. In her presentation Mrs. Yosifova pointed out that she will work to strengthen the interaction of the specialized body with the state authorities, such as the State Agency of Electronic Governance and non-governmental organizations and stressed that successful training and explanatory campaigns under the authority of the Central Election Commission are needed.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u19	Mr. Mitev, please proceed with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u20	Thank you, Madam President. The National Representative Krum Zarkov presented Mrs. Silva Dukendjieva's candidacy, promoted by the parliamentary group BSP for Bulgaria. He said that Mrs. Dukendjieva is a Master of Law, with acquired legal capacity and more than 16 years of legal internship. She was a member of the Central Election Commission for Local Elections in 2007, of the Central Election Commission for the election of MPs in 2009, of the Central Election Commission for the election of Members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2009, as well as in the period 2011 - 2014. Mr. Zarkov added that Mrs. Dukendjieva's professional experience includes her work as a chief expert in the Legal Council of the Administration of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria and in the Department of Legal Affairs of the Ministry of Defence, and since 2012 she holds the position of legal counsel at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. In her presentation Mrs. Dukendjieva pointed out that thanks to her long-standing work as a legal counsel at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria she has gained experience and knowledge of the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, interpretation of the norms in the electoral legislation and their compliance with the supreme law. She added that she was an international observer and member of a sectary electoral commission and emphasized the need for transparency in the work of the Central Election Commission. The candidate for a member of the Central Election Commission Mr. Nikolay Nikolov, proposed by the parliamentary group "BSP for Bulgaria" was presented by the MP Krum Zarkov, who pointed out that Mr. Nikolov has graduated from the Faculty of Law at Sofia University. In 1995 Kliment Ohridski has 22 years of legal experience, of which more than 13 years in the state administration. He worked as an intern judge, legal counsel of the municipality and bank, lawyer in Loveska and Sofia Bar Associations. Mr. Nikolov was a member of the Commission for the Establishment of Property Acquired from Criminal Activity in the period 2005 - 2010, during the period 2011 - 2018 he was a member of the Commission for the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests and in the period 2010 - 2011 he was a member of the Legal Council of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. The candidate is a doctor of law since 2011, with issued monographs, scientific articles and studios. In 2001, he was a member of the Regional Election Commission for the production of elections for President and Vice President of the Republic. In response to the question Mr. Nikolov stressed that his professional development was mainly in the field of public law. He pointed out that his knowledge and experience gained in his work as a Member of the Commission for the prevention and establishment of conflicts of interest will help to draw up methodological guidelines on the existence of conflicts of interest. Mr. Nikolov added that his activities in the Central Election Commission will contribute to his professional and personal development in the field of public law. Mrs. Silvia Stoycheva's candidacy as a member of the Central Election Commission, proposed by the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and presented by the MP Krum Zarkov, who said that Mrs. Stoycheva is a political scientist in education with long-standing professional and political experience, as she was a MP in the 40th National Assembly. He pointed out that the candidate also has knowledge of local self-government, as he was a municipal councillor and chairman of the municipal council. The MP added that Mrs. Stoycheva is an analyst of public sentiment, actively helping in the work of the delegation of Bulgarian Socialists in the European Parliament, focusing on her professional, moral and ethical qualities, as well as tolerant attitude, including her political opponents. In her presentation Mrs. Stoycheva clarified that she has been involved in all electoral campaigns since 1997 as an observer, advocate and representative of a party and stressed that she knows the electoral process and has experience in preparing and training members of sectional election committees. People's representative Krum Zarkov presented Mr. Emil Voynov's candidacy as a member of the Central Election Commission, proposed by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and pointed out that Mr. Voynov is a specialist in information and communication technologies. Mr. Zarkov added that the candidate knows the election process in detail by practically participating in all elections held in the country. Mr. Voynov graduated from the Higher Engineering Institute Sofia, with a Master's degree in Industrial Production and Specialty. In his presentation Mr. Voynov added that he has been engaged in the electoral process for 29 years, participated and trained section and district election committees, organized selection of candidates and provided methodical instructions. It focuses on the need to improve the templates of election papers and the establishment of a training unit to improve and qualify the members of the electoral committees. In response to the questions asked, the applicant clarified that in the form of a test, the knowledge of the participants in the electoral process can be summarised from ordering the section to storing and logistics of the electoral materials and papers. He emphasized on the need for an immediate award of a public procurement contract to provide the necessary devices for the realization of the machine voting in the upcoming elections. Mrs. Tsvetanka Georgieva's candidacy as a member of the Commission, proposed by the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, was presented by the National Representative Krum Zarkov, who said that almost all of Mrs. Georgieva's work and professional internship is related to the elections and added that she was Head of the Department of the National Council of the Bulgarian Socialist Party and she was well aware of the electoral process. The proposed candidate is a graduate of Sofia University. Prof. Kliment Ohridski, specialty "Bulgarian philology" (Bulgarian philology) and qualification "Specialist in Bulgarian language and literature" (Bulgarian philology). He has more than 27 years of joint internship, of which 16 years in the Department of the National Council of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. Ms. Georgieva stressed that she has participated in organizing 15 national elections and not less than 300 new and partial local choices and added that she has participated in elections and as a candidate for mayor and municipal councillor. She joined the vision to improve the activities of the training unit of the Central Election Commission and pointed out that she had experience in holding elections. Mr. Krum Zarkov presented Mrs. Tanya Tsaneva's candidacy as a member of the Commission, proposed by the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and pointed out that she is an active member of the Central Election Commission. Ms. Tsaneva graduated from Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski, specialty of Law, and since 1994 actively supports the free exercise of civil and electoral rights through his activities in the Association.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In 2014, Ms. Tsaneva was a member of the Election Board for Transparent and Democratic Elections at the Council of Ministers, worked as an expert in electoral legislation at the 42nd National Assembly and participated as an observer in electoral procedures in over 20 countries. In addition to the presentation Ms. Tsaneva added that she is a member of the current Central Election Commission and believes that the activities of the training unit can be improved. In response to the questions asked Ms. Tsaneva added that the Central Election Commission did not designate her as a contact person with the Public Council, but was always involved in his work. Ms. Stefka Stoeva's candidacy for Chairman and Member of the Central Election Commission, proposed by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Danail Kirilov, was presented by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, who pointed out that Mrs. Stoeva is a lawyer with high professional and moral qualities, which her 40-year professional experience and work in all units and bodies of the judiciary testify to. He added that Mrs Stoeva was elected constitutional judge in 2009 from the quota of the General Assembly of Judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Administrative Court and enjoys impeccable reputation. She was a judge at the Sofia District Court, the Supreme Court of Justice of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Supreme Administrative Court. As chairman of the Fourth Division of the Supreme Administrative Court, she has gained considerable experience in administrative justice and electoral legislation. During the hearing Mrs. Stoeva announced that she will be a principled and impartial member of the Central Election Commission and will be subject only to the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria. She added that she will work to boost confidence in the electoral authorities while respecting the principles of continuity in work, equality between members and neutrality. A focus in the work of the Central Election Commission Mrs. Stoeva put on the challenge of learning and qualifying a large number of people for a short time. Ms. Stoeva pointed out that it is possible to analyze the invalid ballots and the reasons for their nullity and added that the principle of publicity at the meetings of the Central Election Commission should be respected. On behalf of the importers Mr. Georgi Bahanov's candidacy as a member of the Central Election Commission was presented by the MP Ms. Maria Ilieva, who noted that Mr. Bahanov has more than 20 years of legal experience. He began his career as a lawyer in the Lawyers' College in Blagoevgrad, and in 2003 he was President of the Municipal Election Commission. She pointed out that the applicant was a deputy regional governor in the period 2009 - 2013 and as of 2014 he was a member of the Central Election Commission. Mr. Bahanov is an excellent specialist in electoral legislation and with his knowledge and experience will contribute to the successful activities of the Central Election Commission. During the presentation of his concept Mr. Bahanov noted that the focus of the work of the Central Election Commission should be on the training of the members of the electoral committees, specifying that about 96 thousand citizens participate in the committees. In response to the question he added that in 2014 members worked under the terms of a new Election Code in several successive choices. On the occasion of the training of the participants in the electoral process and the adopted model of step-by-step training, namely: the municipal electoral commission to train the district and the district to train the section, he clarified that more effective training models should be sought. National Representative Anna Alexandrova presented Mrs. Yordanka Gancheva's candidacy as a member of the Central Election Commission and added that she has graduated from the Law Faculty of the Technical University of Varna, specialized in the Law of the Sea and was a PhD student in the Department of General Theory of Laws and Sciences, specialty of Criminology. The MP pointed out that Mrs. Gancheva has worked as a lawyer in the Regional Administration of Varna and the Ministry of Defence and since 2014 she has been a member of the Central Election Commission. Ms. Alexandrova stressed the experience of the candidate gained as an observer in the presidential elections in the Republic of Croatia in 2014, the regional elections in France in 2015, the referendum in the UK in 2016 on leaving the European Union, the municipal elections in Georgia in 2017, the presidential elections in Russia in 2018 and her participation as an observer in the local elections in South Korea. In addition, Mrs. Gancheva noted that she has participated in numerous trainings, conferences, scientific forums and projects related to the electoral process and was a member of municipal, regional and sectary election committees. She added that she supports the optimization of methodological guidelines and identified as important objectives the adoption of the roadmap for the experimental remote electronic voting by 31 March 2020, as well as the creation of a technical unit which, together with the State Agency, will ensure the introduction of this model of voting. Ms. Maria Boykinova's candidacy was presented by the National Representative Iglika Ivanova-Subeva, who pointed out that the candidate is a legal lawyer, worked in the Department of Municipal Property and the Alienation of Real Estates at Sofia Municipality. Since March 2001, he has been listed as a lawyer and was elected a member of the Central Election Commission in 2014. Ms. Sabeva added that Mrs. Boykinova is prepared a lawyer in the field of electoral process and believes that with her experience she will assist the work of the Central Election Commission. Mrs. Boykinova added that in the Central Election Commission she is the head of a group of complaints and signals. She was a member of the Selection Election Commission and noted that she supports the machine voting but believes that its introduction should take place in a gradual manner. On the occasion of the idea of analyzing the reasons for the formation of invalid ballots, she suggested that the verification be carried out on the point of error. On behalf of the importers, Mr. Alexander Andreev's candidacy was presented by the MP Dessislava Atanasova, who pointed out that Mr. Andreev has graduated from the Law Faculty of Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski, specialty "Law, and is a graduate economist in the specialty "Accounting and Control. The candidate is a lecturer in intellectual property law and is an assistant in international private law. Mr. Andreev has participated in numerous national and international projects and is an international observer in parliamentary, presidential and local elections and national referendums. The proposed candidate is the author of a number of articles and publications, he is a member of the Central Election Commission from 2009 to 2011, and from 2013 until now he is a member and spokesman of the Central Election Commission. Mr. Andreev pointed out that the main obligation of the Central Election Commission is the conduct of fair, transparent, democratic and free elections. National Representative Danail Kirilov presented Mr. Miroslav Dzherov's candidacy and added that he has graduated from the Law Faculty of Sofia University. Since then, the applicant has been practicing as a lawyer in the field of civil law and intellectual property. Mr. Dzherov is prepared a lawyer with years of legal experience and meets the legal requirements for taking up the post of member of the Central Election Commission, and with his experience will help the successful work of the Commission. Mr. Zherov thanked for the opportunity to be heard and laid out as a basic principle in the work of the Central Election Commission the continuity in the knowledge, practices and activities of the body in order to ensure fair, transparent and legal elections. On behalf of the importers, Mr. Dimitar Dimitrov's candidacy was presented by the Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, who noted that Mr. Dimitrov is an indisputable specialist with extensive professional experience in the field of electoral process and clarified that the candidate was proposed by the non-governmental organization. Mr. Dimitrov has a Master's degree in Speciality "Sociology" from the Institute of Sociology at Warsaw University and the Philosophical Faculty of Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski. Mr. Kirilov pointed out that between 1992 and 2018 Mr. Dimitrov took up the positions of assistant and chief assistant at Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski, Department of Political Science, lecturer in Departments of Sociology and Public Administration and conduct courses related to political behavior, electoral sociology, election and electoral systems. In addition, it was pointed out that the applicant was a member of four members of the Central Election Commission from 1994 to 2005, and from 1996 he was an expert at the Office of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, the Department of Election Observations in Mr. Dimitrov thanked the acting members of the Central Election Commission for his work and for his elevated candidacy. He added that he was involved in sectional, district and municipal electoral committees, describing the introduction of the engine vote as a discussion. After the hearing and on the basis of the documents presented, the MPs agreed that the candidates comply with the legal requirements for members of the Central Election Commission, with regard to them no data are presented to question their moral and professional qualities, and that all candidates have the necessary qualifications and experience, specific training and personal motivation, enjoy impeccable professional reputation and public support.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u21	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Colleagues, I will now give the floor to the importers to present the proposals for President, Vice-Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission within two minutes. First, the candidate for Chairman of the Central Election Commission... from the parliamentary group of GERB. Mr. Kirilov, please come in and introduce us to Mrs. Stefka Savova Stoeva within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u22	Madam President, honourable Members, honourable candidates for President, Vice-Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission! It is a great honor for us to present to your attention Mrs. Stefka Stoeva's candidacy for President of the Central Election Commission. We are convinced that she is a proven professional and is among the most respected Bulgarian lawyers. In the Magistrate circles Mrs. Stefka Stoeva held the highest position in the hierarchy of the judiciary. Ms. Stoeva was born in 1953 in Veliko Tarnovo. She graduated from the Law Faculty of Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski and holds postgraduate specialization in the Civil Process, starting his professional development as a lawyer in the Lawyers' College of Veliko Tarnovo. Mrs. Stefka Stoeva holds the post of Junior Judge at the Sofia City Court and is Chairman of the Kostinbrodski District Court. Consequencely he holds the positions of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Sofia District Court and in the Supreme Court of Justice of the Republic of Bulgaria. Since 1996 Mrs. Stefka Stoeva has been in office at the Supreme Administrative Court. She is Chairman of the Fourth Division of the Supreme Administrative Court and from 2004 to 2009 she is Vice-President of the Supreme Administrative Court. In 2008, Mrs. Stefka Stoeva was a member of the Council on Law at the 40th National Assembly. She was elected in 2009 as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the General Assembly of Judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Administrative Court. We believe that Mrs. Stefka Stoeva is a lawyer with high professional and moral qualities, proven in her long-standing judicial work and legal internship, as well as in her work as an administrative supervisor. She has demonstrated her high professional and moral qualities in her work in all units and bodies of the judiciary. Among his colleagues, he enjoys an impeccable reputation based on his moral and moral qualities. We are convinced that Mrs. Stoeva will meet the challenge of being President of the Central Election Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second, from the group of the United Patriarchs. [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] By the order of submission to the Office, Mr. Stoinev. Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Prof. Tanya Yosifova is a lawyer with over 19 years of professional legal experience and experience, associate professor of civil and family law. Graduated from the Faculty of Law at Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski with a specialty of Law and in 1998 consecutively from 2000 to 2008, he was an assistant at the University of National and World Economy. In 2005 he received a PhD degree and in 2008 he defended a thesis as associate professor of civil and family law. Currently he is a lecturer in Civil and Family Law at the University of National and World Economy, at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior and Southwestern University of Neofit Rilski. Prof. Tanya Yosifova is also an arbitrator at the Arbitration Court of the Bulgarian Industrial Association. She has a ten-year legal internship and is listed as a lawyer at the Sofia Bar Association. She has participated in numerous jurors for the award of a PhD degree, PhD. Opinions have been drawn on the interpretation decisions of the civil and commercial colleges of the Supreme Court of Cassation, as well as a number of monographs, articles and scientific works in the field of civil law. Visible from the rich legal experience of the applicant in practice and theory as associate professor of law with protective dissertation and habilitation work and from her rich administrative and professional experience, we believe that Associate Professor Tanya Yosifova fully meets the requirements for high professional and moral qualities and vice-chairman of the Central Election Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u25	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Third, Mr. Stoinev will offer us their candidacy as Vice-President of the Central Election Commission. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Coalition BSP for Bulgaria is proposing Silva Dukendjieva as Vice-President of the Central Election Commission. Silva Petkova Dukendjieva was born in Sofia. Lawyer by education, with very good knowledge, understanding and very good experience in electoral legislation and electoral process. She was a member of the Central Election Commission for Local Elections in 2007, of the Central Election Commission for the election of MPs in 2009, of the Central Election Commission for the election of Members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Bulgaria in 2009 and of the Central Election Commission from 2011 to 2014. She has proven her professional qualities, responsibility and high level in carrying out her duties. Competent, responsible and capable of seeking the right professional and impartial solution to all issues that arise in the course of the electoral process. With understanding and the ability to create and work as a team, this will be a worthy Vice-President of the Central Election Commission. I know her personally, a man of great qualities and high professionalism. I am convinced that precisely such people are needed in the Central Election Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. In order to present his proposal for Vice-President of the Central Election Commission, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Rhodoljuktsi.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u28	Madam President, honourable Members! On behalf of VOLIA, we propose as Vice-President of the Central Election Commission Mrs. Kristina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova. Mrs. Stefanova has a very good reputation as a publicist, a proven professional. He gained experience in implementing electoral legislation as a member of the Central Election Commission, knows the electoral process and electoral practices, participates in the activities of organizational and technical preparation of elections. She holds a Master's degree in Economics and Professional Experience for more than 17 years. He graduated from a language school in Lovech with an English language profile and a second German language. His higher education is acquired at the University of National and World Economy in Sofia. He is a Master in Economics and Trade Management and specializes in Finance and Banking at the International Banking Institute in Sofia. Its work is related to compliance with strict rules and procedures, acceptance of responsibilities, coordination and organization of work in a team of organisations with style and high standards, solution of cases, direct communication with people and decision-making with different issues related to our time and real environment. Mrs. Stefanova has received public authority and trust. It has the necessary professional and personal qualities to protect citizens' independent choices. With its management experience, knowledge, communication, honesty and correctness will participate in the work of the Central Election Commission and will contribute to establishing the high standards of work in which human potential is appreciated and given the opportunity for precise and independent solutions. We believe that the application submitted by us fully meets the requirements of the Vice-President of the Central Election Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u29	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. I give the floor of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms to present its proposal as Secretary of the Central Election Commission. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I present to you our proposal as Secretary of the Central Election Commission, which is: the DPS parliamentary group proposes Sevinc Osmanova Solakova as Secretary of the Central Election Commission. Sevinc Solakova is a lawyer in education with years of legal and administrative experience and practice. She graduated from the Law Faculty of Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski and specialization in international relations at the same university. He is a member of the Central Election Commission from 1995 to 2005 and from 2011 to this day is Secretary of the Central Election Commission. He's had over twenty years of legal internship. She has worked as a legal consultant as secretary for the legal affairs of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria in the period 1997-2002, as director of the Department of Legal Representation in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food with main functions in the development of draft legislative acts issued by the Minister, preparation of opinions on draft legislative acts of the competence of other authorities, implementation of procedural representation, preparation of opinions on draft administrative acts and others. He has years of experience in producing all kinds of elections and national referendums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u31	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Colleagues, you've heard the introductions of your colleagues. You have the floor for speeches, I'm opening the debate. Please come in. Mr. Kirilov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u32	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! This is the first procedure for the 44th National Assembly, even for the 43rd National Assembly, which we carry out under the 2014 Election Code. You are convinced that the procedure contains many obstacles, many ambiguities, contains prerequisites for conflicting interpretation in many of the procedural stages. However, by accepting this challenge, proposing to the National Assembly that we implement this procedure right now, our parliamentary group has made an effort, made the maximum legal effort to respect the spirit, meaning and, if possible, strictly comply with the law in its provisions. I would like to start with a legal analysis of this: who needed this challenge just before the start of the elections for MEPs? A debate was opened, which was entirely in the direction of the law, given that the National Assembly is the legislative body of the Republic, no one said that the Constitution was not respected. We have a solid, consistent practice of the Constitutional Court in relation to the counting, respect, duration of mandates. However, in order to overcome this premise, this temptation to claim that the next elections will be unfair, illegal, manipulated, for this reason we have undertaken the procedure and you see that its final is exactly the day the five-year term of the current Central Election Commission expires. Everything is speculated obviously at the beginning of the election process. For this reason, Madam President, I deviate from speech because this is the place to make a procedural proposal. In view of the draft decision, please, in all draft decision-making projects with regard to candidates for selection, the reasons to be aligned, as the procedure allows each of the candidates to submit a draft decision. We have also given as a Legal Commission a draft decision. In our opinion, the legal bases are art. 84, p. 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 46, para. Art. 4 and art. 47, para. 2, p. 1 of the Election Code. Therefore, my request is that you assign to the Directorate of Plenary Meetings in the decisions to be voted in the National Assembly to align the legal bases. My second procedural proposal, since, in the meantime, there is still legal intrigue going on, I will call it directly, in the debate on the mandate and on the exact day on which the mandate expires, my proposal is at the end of the decision to explicitly sign up the candidate for the respective position of the Central Election Commission, starting from 21. Once again, so that there is no unnecessary dispute as to the validity, the moment of entry, the termination and the start of the new mandate accordingly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u33	I'll put these two procedures to the vote, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u34	Thank you for that. I am returning from the procedural proposals to my speech, Madam President. As you can see, this procedure is, figuratively speaking, divided. Part of it is carried out in the National Assembly, the other part of which is the appointment of members of the Central Election Commission, should be carried out by decree of the President. The law does not comment in any way on the role of the President in this case. Since Mr. Rosen Plevneliev was president at the time of the adoption of the new Election Code in 2014, obviously the konncture then required that in this case a huge silence be left in relation to the actions and competence of the President in this case.............................................................................. Can it take into account, for example, because we have a case in this direction, with regard to candidates from formations that are not represented in the Bulgarian Parliament, but have representation in the European Parliament, can it assess the existence and legality of the candidates? How does he judge it? All these issues were left unsolved in 2014. Furthermore, if the President was a listener and an observer of the hearing procedure, would he be able to take part in one application or another? At what time could he react? We are all talking and here the last two days many lawyers have shared an opinion on the mandate. But I ask myself: what is the duty of the President to sign the decree at a certain time, at a certain date? It would be an unpleasant surprise if we had five elected members in the leadership of the new Central Election Commission tomorrow, but we have no membership. I hope the President of the Republic is in Bulgaria today. I hope that his legal advisors will observe not only the hearing but also today's debate and take appropriate action accordingly. These are part of it, not all the questions that have been asked. Then, personally, as a Member of the National Assembly and in the debates, I have warned the then President of the Commission on the drafting of a new Election Code for these problems. But you can see that when it comes to political konncture and deliberate, legal decisions are not good. Once again, we have approached absolutely in good faith from a legal party so that this procedure can be successful. We thank all political parties and civil organisations who participated in the procedure, nominating candidates. I also thank the candidates for having decided to participate in the procedure and to stake their name and authority. And thank the civil society organizations for being active. I will not comment, but only the Political Party GERB adopted the proposals of civil organisations, so we have nominated a prominent lecturer from Sofia University, who is a public figure and regularly participates in the debates related to electoral issues and problems. What's the new CEC gonna be? From this tribune, unfortunately, I have repeatedly criticised the composition of the previous Central Election Commission. I will not hide that we had a complex relationship, that there were times when the current CEC was trying to transfer responsibility to the legislator. Without repeating what I said about the 2014 Code, in some cases the CEC had reason to do so. However, the Legal Commission has never fought the Central Election Commission. We've always had a partnership, we've always sought the meaning and meaning of the Law. Our goal has always been to improve the electoral process and, above all, to restore confidence in the elections. What happens now? In practice, apart from our aspirations, I am referring to the Political Party GERB, to confirm continuity and consistency in the work of the Central Election Commission, we see candidates from opposition formations who have no particular experience in the electoral process, but obviously have party merit and must be appointed to the respective positions. I mean, the Central Election Commission, although upset as a composition, should not be a mirror of political processes, but should be a focus of professionalism and impartiality. We will see how the new composition of the Central Election Commission will work, but in any case we will face trials and the new composition, because it will have an extremely short time to react to the preparation of the upcoming elections. A good news in this sense is that the current composition has worked honestly and with responsibility on these issues and to a large extent are prepared the main drafts of papers and documents to be adopted for the next European elections. I will end up optimistic in the direction of what we are doing, honourable Members, as well as in the political space or in the forecast of success or failure, we should not blow up or embarrass the foundations of both democracy and the electoral process. If we want to be trusted, we need to work jealously and precisely to validate the Law. Thank you. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Replies to Mr. Kirilov's statement? I can't see. Before we go to the next speech, I put to the vote the procedures Mr. Kirilov proposed. The first was to align the legal bases as proposed by Mr Kirilov in the final texts, on the basis of the Constitution and members of the Election Code. They voted 105 MPs: 91, none, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. The second procedural proposal by Mr. Kirilov They voted 130 MPs: 118, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. We continue with speeches. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Mr. Simeonov has a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u36	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My speech will be brief. I hope to express the opinion of the majority of the MPs that the current composition of the Central Election Commission is working professionally, working conscientiously, working honestly in the interests of the state as well. This must be recognised, especially in the last phase of their activities, in a very complex situation of changing president, in a series of elections with serious confrontation and challenge, they defended professionalism in the work, worked in complete sync with both the Legal Directorate of the National Assembly and the MPs. I would also like to emphasise their contribution to the amendment of the Election Code carried out in the previous term and to say thank you. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u37	What about their illegal decisions?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u38	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Any lines to Mr. Simeonov's statement? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u39	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Without differing from what Mr. Simeonov said, I would like to add to his statement. Indeed, I repeat, because there is a risk that this has not been clearly understood, we express our gratitude to the work and operationality of the Central Election Commission, our disputes have always been constructive. You can see that the current amendment to the Election Code follows their report and their preconceptions entirely. Because of their findings, we are burdened with the current amendment of the Central Election Commission. Thank you, Mr. Simeonov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u40	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Another line? I can't see. A hole? There won't be. Next statement, colleagues? Mr. Tsvetanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to thank you for all that has been done by all the parliamentary groups so that they can actually participate actively in the selection and proposals that have been made for the Central Election Commission. I would also like to thank, like my colleague Valeri Simeonov, for everything that the Central Election Commission has done so far, because when a term ends, there are always more accusations than to say a big thank you. This Central Election Commission has been working under constant pressure from many political formations. This Central Election Commission was elected in 2014 by the then majority led by the Bulgarian Socialist Party. The so far Central Election Commission has been chosen by the principle of professionalism, so that there may be solutions that can be sufficiently well argued and not hinder the electoral process. All this time we have treated each other with respect and acknowledged every single choice that has been taken into account as finally completed and with the final announcement of election results. We have never questioned the potential for forgery or forgery of elections by the Central Election Commission. However, what has happened in the past few weeks is not entering the Bulgarian Parliament, even though it is involved with a proposal for the election of a Central Election Commission. I want to congratulate Dragomir Stoinev today [[Applause from GERB]] who has come to be able to really defend this proposal, but I would like to say to Mr. Dragomir Stoynev that today all MPs who come to work on a daily basis are faced with the question of whether we should exercise our right to vote in favour of this proposal for Vice-President? I can tell you that from the parliamentary group of GERB we will support this proposal of yours. I would like to make it clear that this should not be conducted as an agreement or any back-to-back conversation between the BSP and the Presidency.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u42	It's a deal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u43	You don't have to talk about a deal here at all...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u44	It's a clean deal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u45	...because in transactions and in attempts to fake an election, we know who are the ones who can do it best.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u46	We want the price! The price!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u47	My request to you, Mr. Stoynev, is that when you return to the headquarters of the.Positano, you simply ask all those who have nominated for the Central Election Commission because it was very clear to you that you do not hold on to continuity because the current CEC was the choice of the then political leadership of the BSP, the Ombudsman, who was a factor in the legislation that was adopted. But I would just like to address you: do not involve them saying things that will not correspond to the procedures, transparency and decisions that will be taken in the Central Election Commission. Let them work as they can apply the law, exposing their professionalism in the first place so that they can actually have the corresponding weight in the Central Election Commission. However, I would like to make a very clear clarification here. On the topics you are throwing into the public space by the BSP for upcoming falsified elections for European or local votes, I mean: let's not stick to the style and the way you are holding elections in an internal party format. We saw what you did on Saturdays and Sundays, what was the response from your party organizations and factors in the Bulgarian Socialist Party to question the counterfeiting of an internal party format and forum. This means that you may have such attitudes and thus want to strive to take power as well. Dear Mr. Stoynev, we treat with respect and, of course, we accept any decision that comes out of the Bulgarian Socialist Party.But do not try to fake the internal choice of your party, the assessment that your members and your party structures give it, to transfer it to national policy and to make it a key point of reference in the upcoming European elections. [[Applause from GERB.]] Because the political party GERB will participate in these elections, as it has always been. We are the party that always works only and only driven by the public interest. I can tell you that we are the party that is also seeking this unification of the democratic thinking Bulgarian citizens who sympathise and support the parties belonging to the European People's Party. Because the European People's Party has proved that it can solve the problems together with the main major political families in the European Parliament, both liberals and the Party of European Socialists. But we see that you in BSP do not appreciate the leadership that our country has in the socialist family. Of course, these are once again your internal political contradictions and struggles that you lead among yourselves. Please don't bother us in the upcoming elections with your internal political contradictions and problems you have. I hope that you will decide them very soon, you will give the freedom and opportunity of the MPs to come and exercise their right for what they have been elected to vote for in the Bulgarian Parliament. I can tell you that the inclusion in the weekly programme of item 3 for today's meeting is exactly the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act with importer Cornelia Ninova. I hope you will stay at least for this point to protect and present the Bill. Or perhaps then Mrs Cornelia Ninova herself will come?! Because I am convinced that the ban you have imposed on your MPs will only be to your detriment and betrayal to your constituents who have elected you to be MPs and to be in the current Parliament. We will support your application for Vice-President of the Central Election Commission. I believe that this is what we will all do to show that parliamentaryism and parliament is the one who decides and not your personal contradictions that you have in the Bulgarian Socialist Party. Thank you. [[Extreme applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u48	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Yachev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u49	Madam President, honourable Members! I will step away from the tone of tolerance and political correctness, which Mr. Tsvetanov demonstrated just now, and will cut out the position of the MPs from the National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria. We will not support BSP's candidacy for a member of the Central Election Commission with the main argument that we consider as an act of continued disrespect the lack of MPs from the BSP today, here in plenary, who with their own votes to support their own candidacy. The presence of Mr. Dragomir Stoynev, who made a presentation of the candidacy, is, in our opinion, simply a withdrawal of a number, lacking serious arguments, lacks the serious presence of members of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, who will give their vote in support of otherwise, I suppose, the worthy person and worthy candidacy, which they have proposed in the Central Election Commission. We believe that the four-week boycott of the MPs from the Bulgarian Socialist Party (Bulgarian Socialist Party) deserves to receive a lesson from the Bulgarian National Assembly because we are here, not only to do our commitments as representatives of different political formations, but we are here to defend the interests of the entire Bulgarian society, of the entire Bulgarian people. Therefore, the members of the National Assembly will not vote for the representative of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. We believe that their responsibility and their duty was to be here today and to support their candidacy with their votes. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Yachev. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Stoynev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Of course, I cannot help but overlook such speeches, although my desire was only to focus on the worthy candidacy of an outstanding professional, who I am convinced will work for absolutely everyone and for an honest election in the country. Where do I start? I am impressed that we quickly forgot how the ruling coalition did not want to comply with the law! We witnessed a political rot from morning to night on TV, when evening with the same spirit the same people explained how there was no need to change the composition of the Central Election Commission, and the next day they claimed the exact opposite. We consider this truly unprofessional, immoral, but in the end, this is the chaos we live in. We cannot be at any cost in the Bulgarian Parliament when there is a similar agenda in which we listen to four ministers. This is every week for a single and simple reason, ladies and gentlemen? You cannot fill this agenda! It is shameful when the Bulgarian Parliament and the Bulgarian MPs do not have enough bills and we do these political tricks to listen to ministers. It is unworthy of Bulgarian parliamentaryism! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Point three, which was said a moment ago, if it were true what Mr. Tsvetanov said, of course, we would have believed him. But notice, ladies and gentlemen, the point was tabled on 25 October 2018. On 25 October! What prevented this item from being viewed before the adoption of the budget, because it concerns public finances? The idea was to watch exactly then. We now believe that it is cynical to offer points, only and only to fill the agenda. And what are we to debate about when the debates have absolutely no meaning for you? If there was, if there was! We wouldn't be standing here for 10 hours to debate. You would have listened to the opposition's voice. The fact is, we're right.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u52	You weren't there!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u53	The fact is, we're right! That is why I believe that my presence today can be interpreted because the leadership of the new Central Election Commission is being voted and that our parliamentary group has become the honor of presenting Silva Dukendjieva's candidacy. Of course, we also believe that this is a step towards the specific political goal of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, namely the choice to change the model. This model in which you live, in which you produce yourself, is our main goal to replace it. The change of this model began with the change of leadership of the Central Election Commission. This model will be replaced by the change of politicians who are in this room! This model will also be replaced by the change of mayors in the local elections that are coming! [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] That's why I'm here. What concerns me and I see the possession of Mr. Tsvetanov by the Bulgarian Socialists, I can state the following: Mr. Tsvetanov...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u54	Possession?!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u55	...because you're possessed, I see, [[GERB noise and lines]] of what is happening with us, it is an honor for any political power to have so many politicians and to have a debate about the place of these politicians. I very much hope there will be such a debate with you. Unfortunately, I'm not sure it's gonna happen. With us leaders are up with elections and we all stand behind them as they descend with you. That's the difference between you and us! So let's get back to the Central Election Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u56	Come back, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u57	I have a statement, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u58	Of course, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u59	If you want, I can speak only to you, but I think I was called to speak to the Bulgarian Parliament. The presence of the Bulgarian Socialist Party in the Chamber will be after elections and indeed, when these early elections come, which are our specific goal, and really come and are chosen people not to reproduce, not to produce chaos, but to think about the future and prosperity of the Bulgarian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u60	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. First line, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoinev, I thank you for this zealous protection, but I can only say that it is very important for me to always have continuity. And if we look at all the nominations that have been made, you will see that the Bulgarian Socialist Party (Bulgarian Socialist Party) once again, because of the internal contradictions you have proposed only one of the six applications you have had. Political party GERB from seven as quota, repeat the mandate of four more to have continuity. The movement for rights and freedoms is of two, which preserves the best continuity. The United Patriarchs, by two, are one. And I'm going to have one. Mr. Stoinev, just to tell you, when you talked about fair elections and all that you said as false news, I just want to ask you: the main protection you have done in all these weeks and months was to have a machine vote. What you said was to have a list of voters. What you said was to have protocol of choice. I ask: about the domestic political choice that was on Saturday and Sunday, have you applied all this to ensure transparency [[Applause]] And the loyalty of the choice you made in your party? You just fake things there. At least this is the assessment given by your political persons, and at some point here you go out and say something else. As for nominations and election, I want you to observe with interest what a political party GERB does. I can tell you that the nominations are closed in our party, the final decision to be made is yet to come. But we are even opening up to dialogue with other parties that are part of the European People's Party, while you are shutting down for the President of the PES himself. So you make up your mind about who does what and how it develops. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u62	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Second line, here you go, Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u63	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! What joy there has been, joy in our soul, a representative of the left, who has shown a monospect. [[Laughter and applause]] And we've already seen this spectacle and we've heard it, as they say. They're talking about morality! Look at them, look at them! They talk about morality and they don't work. [[Laughter from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov.]] Where are they? Are they in the woods, are they in the Grounders, it's not clear, but when the time comes for...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u64	Mr. Kasabov, Mr. Kasabov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u65	...pays, they're here, they're getting very moral. What about the representative two thirds? You're putting them away. How do you explain these things to the hungry pensioners, your pensioners, for whom you fight in the chest, so you got bruises? The second act of your performance is from here on.. Change the model. Who's the model? What, take the guns and shoot, resurrect Stalin, Lenin, and start at the front lines: hey, we're here! Start with your...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u66	Madam President, get to your role!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u67	Not like that, please! Mr. Kasabov, please! Mr. Kasabov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u68	Don't call, don't call, and call in pure Bulgarian that I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u69	Please, Mr. Kasabov. Mr. Kasabov, behave yourself!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u70	So, Mr. Stoynev, please very much, we leave you the place to continue with this spectacle and tell the partisans that the dairy workers are finished coming to work! Thank you. [[Replications, laughter and applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u71	Thank you, Mr. Kasabov. Third line, Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u72	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honored guests! My question may no longer be as attractive and as important after the lines that have been put forward, but I will ask my colleague Stoinev about their reaction to the preferential vote and the preferential vote. First, the comments were from people who obviously do not know the Election Code or the mechanism of preferential voting, but I understand that it has been released districtly to all the faithful structures of the President for voting preferentially for certain people so that the competitor Stanishev can be thrown out of the electoral zone. Is this also true how it will affect the Bulgarian presence in the PES? [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u73	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Hole, Mr. Stoynev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! That's why we're not here! We do not see the point, given that there is such an important agenda of the Bulgarian society, and the entire plenary is dealing with the Bulgarian Socialist Party and is normal. This will be the winner of the next election and it is normal to have such interest! [[Noise and lines.]] Maybe after that we'll invite you to our convention to come and give the order. After all, much of you are also former members, unlike the MPs here on the left. Mr. Tsvetanov was talking about continuity. Mr. Tsvetanov, we also have continuity, but strangely how did this continuity happen on your part that a BSP candidate you recognized him as your own? Either you've been using it all along, or you just don't have qualified people?! Second of all, to my colleagues, so-called Patriots, I'm sorry, but this chaos and what's happening... What about pensions, gentlemen on the right, Patriots, what happens?! This chaos that is happening today is thanks to you because you voted and you supported this model. BSP has always been against this model and we have said it, but you are sitting here supporting the model that leads to a reduction of newly released pensions. [[Heckling]] Of course we're against this model of backstage. We want there to be laws on which to really debate at a much higher level, my desire is a spiritual level, but, unfortunately, seeing what the level is here, the insults that come in all the time and are insulted by MPs, I believe that no, our place is not here. Our place is here and yours isn't here! While you stand while such debates are being held until the agenda of the public is discussed, the BSP really has no place in the Chamber. Thank you. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Karadayi, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies proposed as members of the leadership of a new Central Election Commission! In the spirit of the assessments of the activities of the current Central Election Commission, including the assessments we have heard from MPs who have so far spoken, we understand that the so-called Central Election Commission has also had controversial decisions and decisions contrary to the law taken under pressure if I quote Mr. Tsvetanov, or with prejudice, if I may quote Mr. Kirilov. I hope that the new leadership of the Central Election Commission will contribute to the strict implementation of the law, and I hope that by your example you will set an example for the entire Central Election Commission, the new Central Election Commission will not take decisions under pressure or prejudice either to MPs or to political parties. Each of the proposed members for the leadership of the new Central Election Commission, as we have seen from their biographies, has proven professional experience, and we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Members of Parliament, whether it is a coincidence or not, the proposed members for the leadership of the new Central Election Commission are the more beautiful, the better, the better and more responsible part of humanity. All the proposals are ladies. We wish you luck! Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u77	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u78	There's a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u79	Yes, Mr. Panchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable candidates for CEC leadership! As Chairman of the Agricultural Union, Alexander Stamboliyski, a man who in recent years has had the opportunity to closely monitor the work of the current CEC, I would like to thank them for their excellent work. There have probably been some gaps, but I would like to stress that these years really did not have problems in the CEC, worked without any matter which of which political power is, in the interest of the law and in the interest of conducting proper elections in Bulgaria. So far on the CEC, there have been many good and prepared lawyers, people who knew the law well. In the remaining two months until the European elections, the new CEC will have to do a very serious job and I would like to congratulate the political forces for the fact that in the new CEC, colleagues who know well the Election Law, who know the work and who I am convinced will manage, in spite of the little time, so that on 26 May, when Bulgaria will vote for MEPs, to hold proper and honest elections. And, by saying that I thank the political parties for what they are doing, I would also like to thank the Political Party GERB, which appreciated by dignity one of the former members of the CEC, Alexander Andreyev, a longtime agricultural actor, a lecturer in law, a very prepared lawyer, who I believe, with his experience, with tolerance, with the fact that in these years around his name no bad word has been heard, will remain in the new CEC and with his experience will help the work of the new Central Election Commission to go smoothly, to be successful. I would also like to wish him success in this work and the new CEC successful work in the coming years, in the next elections that stand before our country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. Replies to Mr. Panchev's statement? Come in, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Panchev, thank you for this speech I can say that in the Political Party GERB and in the parliamentary group of GERB we always discuss people by dignity, by professionalism and finally put political affiliation. I want to thank you, Mr. Panchev, for this statement. That's basically not a line, it's just in support of what you said. I want to tell Dragomir Stoynev if he thinks he can join us. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u83	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Second line? I can't see. Will there be a hole, Mr. Panchev? No. Colleagues, any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. I'm closing the debate, colleagues. Let's move on to the vote. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I put to the vote the proposal for the election of Stefka Savova Stoeva as President of the Central Election Commission with the relevant legal bases under the Constitution and the Election Code. They voted 141 MPs: 141, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal for the election of Silva Petkova Dukendjieva as Vice-President of the Central Election Commission with the relevant legal bases under the Constitution and the Election Code. Vote 141 MPs: 131, against 5, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal for the election of Tanya Nikolova Yosifova as Vice-President of the Central Election Commission with the relevant legal bases under the Constitution and the Election Code. 135 MPs voted: 129, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal for the election of Kristina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Stefanova as Vice-President of the Central Election Commission with the relevant legal basis under the Constitution and the Election Code. 140 MPs voted: 134 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal to elect Sevinc Osmanova Solakova as Secretary of the Central Election Commission with the relevant legal bases under the Constitution and the Election Code. They voted 136 MPs: 122, against 2, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we have a leadership of the Central Election Commission with President Stefka Savova Stoeva; Vice-President Silva Dukendjieva; Vice-President Tanya Yosifova; Vice-President Kristina Tsankova Stefanova and Secretary Sevinc Solakova. [[Applause.]] Congratulations! I wish you a successful job! Colleagues, I suggest we take a break because the next item will also be subject to debate. Previously, colleagues in the Northern foyer will open a photo exhibition in NATO. The exhibition is within the parliamentary dimension of marking the 15th anniversary of the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to NATO. The photographs were taken at the site of the event by Bulgarian soldiers in their participation in missions and operations of the Alliance. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u84	I ask the Quaestors to urge the Members of the House to continue our work on the adopted agenda. Coming up next: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PUBLIC FINLAND, No 854-01-77, PUT BY CORNELIA NINOVA AND GROUP OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES OF 25 OCTOBER 2018 We begin with the Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u85	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act, No 854-01-77, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 25 October 2018. At a meeting held on 7 March 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 25 October 2018. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance Dobrin Pinzhurov, Director of the Directorate of Budget and Galya Nikolova, Head of the Department of the same Directorate. The Bill proposes the adoption of state budget bills, the budget of state social security and the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund to be adopted after the examination and adoption of the specific individual parameters. As regards the approval of additional costs/transfers at the expense of the central budget, it is proposed that the powers conferred on the Council of Ministers be defined as an exception to the rule of jurisdiction of the National Assembly, limiting the amount of expenditure to one in a hundred of the estimates of revenue under the consolidated fiscal programme for the year in question. A written opinion of the Ministry of Finance has been received under the Bill, expressing the following arguments for not supporting the proposed amendments: 1. The cancellation of art. 55a will result in the inability to finance priority for society delegated by the state activities in the field of health, education, social services and others, the funds for which they cannot be allocated by municipalities when preparing and adopting the state budget for objective reasons. 2. The change in art. 86 risks the adoption of a budget in a substantial deviation from the basic parameters proposed by the government, as well as unrealistic increases in revenue, deterioration of the budget balance and others. 3. The change in art. 109, para. 3 is contrary to the basic fiscal rule laid down in the provision of art. 26, para. 6 - 10, which does not allow the Parliament's sanction to approve additional expenditure by the Council of Ministers at the expense of overexecution of revenues. After the presentation of the bill, a discussion was held which ended with the following results:..................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Budget and Finance Committee proposes that the National Assembly should not adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act, No 854-01-77, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 25 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u86	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. There will be no importer's opinion due to the lack of importers in the Chamber. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you are, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u87	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! The amendments and additions to the Public Finance Act proposed under this point are reduced to three main directions. One is related to the change of order in the adoption of the State Budget Act and other budgets. The second proposal relates to the approval of additional costs and transfers at the expense of the central budget. The third direction is for annulment of art. 55a of the Law. These proposals clearly do not fit into the logic and philosophy of the Law, lead to internal disagreements of a related arrangement and would create ambiguity in the application of the Law. Let us consider what is proposed in the Bill. Art. 1 (2) (a) (ii) 86, para. 2 says that the general indicators of the State Budget Act are first adopted and then adopted on the budgets of senior officers. In general, the BSP's proposal is to change the order of not purely technical, but first to adopt the budgets of the authorising officers listed by point. 2 to t. Article 6 86, para. 2 and only then to be accepted by the generalized indicators. Why can't this be done? Article 1 of the budget reflects the overall forecasts for the development of the economy in the medium term and mainly concerning the budget for the year in question for the period in one year. If we change this order and before considering the overall indicators of the budget are examined and voted separately by the individual chief authorising officers of a budget, this could ultimately lead to a very difficult binding of these common macroeconomic indicators on whose basis art is established. 1. Once again, I would stress that this bill proposes a change in provisions relating to the adoption of the state budget and other budgets, which may lead to a disagreement with the underlying risks of non-compliance with the basic fiscal rules laid down in Chapter 2 of the Law, with which Council Directive 2011/85 of 8 November 2011 on the requirements for the budgetary frameworks of the Member States is transposed in national legislation. It is also a separate issue that the proposed changes are not in line with the reasons of a decision of the Constitutional Court of 2018. Decision No 4 on the need to coordinate the parameters of the state budget. What does these motives say in the Constitutional Court's ruling? I quote verbatim from the court's decision: The budget law adopts a public finance management plan based on objective indicators and forecasts for economic development within a certain period of time. A fundamental principle in budgeting is the achievement of a balance between revenue and expenditure, where each expenditure has a clearly defined financial source. A law which provides for the spending of funds outside the common budgetary framework adopted, including the established balance, would be internally contradictory and, in this sense, incompatible with the rule of law under Article 3. 4, para. 1 of the Constitution. Further down, the reasoning further states that: The text that the National Assembly, in the course of the second reading of a bill, cannot under any circumstances review a separate provision on which a vote has been held, even when the objective is to achieve synchronization with other provisions already voted, is unfounded. According to the Constitutional Court, the requirement of art. 88, para. 1 of the Constitution for two amendments to the law does not restrict the legislative authority to remove contradictions between its norms in the course of the parliamentary debates ongoing in the framework of the second reading until the procedure for adoption of the bill has been completed. It is no accident that the constitutional legislature here has commissioned the legislative initiative regarding the state budget bills of the Council of Ministers, which, given its constitutionally defined powers of leadership and implementation of the country's internal and foreign policy, is the body that can develop the state budget on the basis of macroeconomic assumptions, in line with the phases of the economic cycle and the risk scenarios for the sensitivity of the main macroeconomic and financial indicators. The acceptance of the indicators under art. 86, para. 2, p. 2 to 6 before the indicators under art. 86, para. 2, p. 1 poses a really significant risk of the adoption of a budget in a material deviation from the basic parameters proposed by the government, including unrealistic increases in revenue, deterioration of the budget balance and so on, as described in the Committee on Budget and Finance Report. According to the second heading, the second proposal contained in the Bill relating to the approval of additional costs and transfers at the expense of the central budget has one ambiguity, imprecisely follows the logic, the framework of relations relating to the implementation of the state budget. Perhaps there is some misunderstanding there, because this proposal gives the Council of Ministers an opportunity within 1% of the revenues under the consolidated fiscal programme to approve additional costs at the expense of overexecution. This article is amended as follows: 109, para. 3 did not comment at all on the overexecution of the budget. Here in art. 109, para. 3 it is about the provision of additional funds from the expenditure part of the budget, i.e. neither revenue has been changed nor expenditure has been changed, and the additional funds are at the expense of restructuring within the expenditure part of the budget. Therefore, in the Public Finance Act we actually have a text in art. 26, which says that the overexecution of the revenues cannot give extra money without the will of the National Assembly. In this proposed new version, the norm is contrary to a basic fiscal rule laid down in the provisions of art. 26, para. 6 to 10, which still do not allow without Parliament's sanction approval of additional expenditure by the Council of Ministers at the expense of overexecution of revenues. Moreover, the current legal framework is even more restrictive than the BSP proposed in this bill. Last, the third direction of the proposals is the cancellation of art. 55a of the Law. This article concerns not only the relations of municipalities with the central budget but also the relations of municipalities with senior officers. It is very difficult in the process of budgeting everything to be covered by the main budgetary relations, so over the course of the year there is a movement from the chief officers to the municipalities, from the municipalities to the chief officers, from the central budget to the municipalities. Here is an example given during the review of the Bill in the Committee on Budget and Finance, which is sufficiently eloquent. It's about the means of violent disasters. It is very difficult when we make the Budget Act, to say how these funds for non-born disasters are still distributed by municipalities. That is why these funds are in the budget and, along the way of such events, are provided by the Council of Ministers to the respective municipalities. Revocation of the provision under art. 55a would lead to the inability to finance priority for society delegated by the State activities in the field of education, health, social services and others, the funds for which for objective reasons cannot be allocated by municipalities in the preparation and adoption of the state budget. The preservation of this arrangement is also in the spirit of art. 9, p. 4 of the European Charter on Local Self-government, which provides for commitments for the countries to create sufficiently diverse financial mechanisms providing funds for local self-government bodies. My fellow Members, from the arguments and facts put forward so far, I think it is clear that the proposals in this bill are unclear and I would like to stress again that they do not fit into the logic and philosophy of the Law, lead to internal disagreements of related arrangements and would create ambiguity in the implementation of the Law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u88	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Are there any lines? There are no lines to the statement. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Tsonev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! We at the DPS understand what led BSP colleagues to draw up this bill, in what direction it is and in which particular problems they have imposed to create the Bill in order to set up more precisely budgetary technology. We also believe in our programme that in the future we will propose a change of the Public Finance Act in the direction of strengthening budgetary discipline by the executive, closing some options for circumventing the National Assembly in the allocation of budgetary accounts. The analysis of the colleague Angelova was quite thorough and accurate. We also do not share that the Bill describes the exact ways to solve the problems that we have seen in recent years, especially after the adoption of the new Public Finance Act, and the things that are happening with the budget. Firstly, as regards the order of acceptance, the first proposal. We also disagree that this order should be changed not only because of the Constitutional Court's decision, but we want to turn the attention of colleagues from GERB that this need is due to the distorted debate in the Chamber at the adoption of the budget. Of course, the proposals are not made as they were done in the past: each one of them contains a change in the corresponding parameter, let's say in art. 1 or art. 2 and the basis for this change. The order may remain the same, but the debate and the technology of making the budget cannot remain the same. Because in the last few years we have seen how in the process of adopting a second reading of the budget many of the proposals and their argumentation were rejected with the motive of this tribune that it has already been accepted art. 1 in respect of revenue and there is no way for it to be changed. In fact, what the colleague Angelova read in the motives is that art. 1 can be changed, and if you go back and review the transcripts, you will see that you, as governors, have, with these exact motives, rejected proposals to change certain cost parameters. So if we do not change the order, we must categorically change the way we conduct the debate at the second reading of the bill, both in the Commission and in the Chamber. With regard to the powers of the executive power. Yes, it is, but it's not reassigned without a sanction to overexecute the budget. Reassignments are being made to uncosted expenditure parts of the budget, but here another technique and technology are being used. When the budget is adopted, let's say, unrealistically high capital expenditures are adopted. For example, some of them depend on design readiness and it is clear in advance that they will not be reached. Secondly, another part of them depends on the degree of absorption of the euro projects and the corresponding budgetary co-financing, co-financing. It is clear that there will be no such absorption and by inflating these capital expenditures, there will eventually be a plaque, a buffer which is known in advance that it will not be spent and will be reassigned by the Finance Ministry by a decree of the Council of Ministers. It gets that practice that we all talk about: the prime minister gives, gives there, we give there and so on. If you want this to be avoided, a change of the Public Finance Act must be adopted and we will propose in the future, without, of course, breaking the principles that have been adopted so far. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Bill is born and motivated by a not very good practice to circumvent the National Assembly, where by law, where with no legal arguments, but does not specify the right decisions. Therefore, we will not support it, but we will abstain from voting. I would like to emphasise once again that, in the direction in which it is thought and with the arguments that I have made, we will be looking for a solution to strengthen budgetary discipline and not bypassing the National Assembly in its prerogative to take decisions on spending public finances. Yes, the Council of Ministers has only the legislative right to draw up and submit such a bill, but the final word is the National Assembly. Members of the National Assembly have the right to change the proposals tabled by the Council of Ministers and we must not run away from this responsibility. And yet another motive to vote abstentions, we do not think that it is appropriate for the drafters to be absent from the House and the MPs to deal with their legislation while they are working on their election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u90	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I, too, would like to express my view in the failure to support the proposed bill for reasons and motives that my colleagues have put forward before me by also confirming my opinion that the order should not be changed in the members of the Public Finance Act, and it should remain as it is at the moment, of course, with the arguments put forward that this does not cancel the debate on subsequent texts and should in no case contradict the Constitutional Decision of last year. I would like to go a little bit further on the proposal for annulment of art. 55a, for which there are no grounds for the bill. I'm going to start by reminding what Article actually says. 55a of the Public Finance Act, which says that, outside the cases of a previous member, budgetary relations between the budgets of municipalities and the central budget can be changed in accordance with Section II, Chapter 8 of the relevant body, including at the expense of a reduction in the budgetary relationship of a senior authorising officer with a budget under the central budget, in the implementation of policy areas, projects, programmes and the award of activities. Why do I remind the text of the Law? Because when we voted on the State Budget Act, if you remember, a BSP colleague said he had never seen the central budget and therefore could not vote for it. I would therefore like, although my colleagues are not in the Chamber, to tell those of you who are not members of the Budget Committee who have not been more expert in budgeting, that the country's actually consolidated fiscal programme covers the state budget, which in turn includes the central budget, the budget of the National Assembly, the judiciary, other executive bodies and does not include the budget of the municipalities. Accordingly, the budgetary relations with municipalities, social security funds and other budgetary organisations are included in the consolidated fiscal programme. It is for this reason that, with the change or cancellation of this text, we would reflect not only on the relations of the central budget with the municipalities, but also with the other senior officers. Within the course of the year, changes are required in the budgets concerned for various reasons and, in fact, the repeal of this text would lead to the inability to finance priority areas. Why can't everything be planned when the State Budget Act is adopted because of the nature of the various activities that cover the budget? In fact, perhaps we should remind here that the budget is the financial plan through which policies are implemented, so it is normal for there to be some movement within the year, to arise things that are not foreseen, it is possible to have restructuring, for example deinstitutionalisation of social homes. There may be a transfer of students from one school to another, which reflects on delegated budgets. It is possible, by no means, that disasters and vehicles may arise, which could also not be planned and are therefore not previously reflected in the budgets concerned, and subsequently the necessary resources need to be provided for a variety of situations that may arise within a budget year. Of course, this is all within the authority of the Council of Ministers. In other words, what is happening with the allocation of funds under a decree of the Council of Ministers is within the framework of the Law.................................. This also corresponds to the European Charter of Local Self-government, which, in fact, perhaps just reminds, says that the financial mechanisms providing the means available to local self-government authorities must be sufficiently diverse and to be developed to enable them to follow the natural increase in the cost of exercising their powers. Once again, I would like to remind you, this is not just about municipalities, it is about relations between the central budget and the senior officers, which means other executive bodies. This is, in my opinion, the reasons why this change should not be supported specifically, but also the others, as we have already said, for the exchange of art. 1, the order of the texts on the adoption of the Law, as well as the text in question on the allocation of funds of 1% of the revenue. There is indeed some misunderstanding here, because the Council of Ministers does not, in fact, redistribute the overexecution of revenues, but restructure the costs.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u92	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u93	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Ilieva, you explained quite in detail why GERB will not support this bill. I would like to ask you, as President of the Sub-Committee on Public Accountability and closely aware of the Report and the findings of the Court of Auditors and of its experts on the spending of funds from municipalities, are there any findings in this report to impose and determine, possibly, such a change precisely in the Public Finance Act? Could this be part of the motivation that fellow Members who are not in this House today have to draw up this bill, and is it contained somewhere in the Court of Auditors' reports? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u94	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Is there a second line? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u95	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, it is a fact that by decision of the National Assembly an audit was given to the Court of Auditors, whose aim was to establish whether the requirements of the regulations and internal acts were met when approving additional costs or transfers to the budgets of the chief authorising officers with a budget. This audit covered the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 January 2018. The Court of Auditors' report, which was presented to the National Assembly, and the main findings in it, are that the Council of Ministers has operational autonomy to approve additional costs or transfers, which are, in fact, powers given to it under the Public Finance Act, having the right to assess how much to approve them. With regard to the appropriateness of the requested s, they shall be decided by the Council of Ministers. In summary, I can say with regard to this report that a sample review has been carried out, of course, on the basis of the statistical samples used, on the main means which have been distributed with the Council of Ministers' decree, on how they influence the respective municipalities. One of the conclusions reached is that the allocation of the additional funds is uneven. The district centers Varna, Dobrich, Smolyan, Turnovo and Vidin are with the most used indicator for using funds per capita and with the largest amount of funds. At least they received Lovech and Ruse. I don't think there's any reason for reproach here. What the Court of Auditors recommends, since the conclusions are that the Law is respected, is to establish provisions in the Internal Rules of the Ministry of Finance to determine the order of verification and coordination of the relevant acts, so that a recommendation for a change in the Public Finance Act is not given and the audit concludes that the costs incurred are lawful.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. A statement? Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I take the floor for this speech, although we have heard arguments from our fellow Members about not supporting this Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act. I regret that the left side of the room is empty because it is the importers who led with Mrs Cornelia Ninova who did not consider coming and explaining even to the Commission their views on the changes so proposed. I fully support the comments that have been made by colleagues and also by the Ministry of Finance in failure to support the Law. I will also express my own reasons why I would not do so and why I call you, colleagues, to vote not abstention, but even against. In addition to the abovementioned Constitutional Decision of 2018 (the "Constitutional Decision'). No 4, namely that the body authorised by the legislator in the Constitution to have the legislative initiative concerning the formation of the state budget is the Council of Ministers with the respective directorates in the Ministry of Finance, where a budget forecast and the consolidated fiscal framework for the coming years are started from the middle of the year. It is in paragraph 3 that, if I am not mistaken, on the proposal of BSP and Mrs Cornelia Ninova, it is, firstly, to vote on the budgets of the chief authorising officers and to vote on the main indicators such as revenue and expenditure, the considerations of the Ministry of Finance and the department, of the people working in the formation of these indicators, to vote afterwards. In this proposal there is no non-financial, there is no mathematical logic and that is why I am calling for and will not support the proposal made by BSP colleagues. In addition, I will say the logical consistency observed so far in both this House and the Commission is going in a completely normal order, namely the macro-economic framework with the indicators that indicate revenue and expenditure for the coming years, and then the budgets of the authorising officers with them. For me it is also unfounded and does not contain logic the desired change in art. 109, para. 3 because it does not concern at all the provision of additional funds from the expenditure part of the budget, i.e. the fellow importers did not consider it necessary to read the Law and to accurately see that art. 109 is not a re-execution of the revenue side of the budget that is therefore to be re-distributed from there. On the contrary, the existing arrangements in art. 26 of the Public Finance Act is much more restrictive and says that budget funds cannot be redistributed without the sanction of the National Assembly. If there is such redistribution at the end of the year is on the expenditure part voted by the National Assembly. It is from what has been said so far and from those who have spoken before, that I do not intend to support the bill. Moreover, I am impressed that it may be a manifestation of populism by BSP colleagues, who I stress again, and today they are not working, they will take their salaries, and they did not feel it necessary to come and defend their bill. Mrs Cornelia Ninova, who signed it, could have come in and answered and at least participated in the debate we had today, even in her absence. I hope they will reconsider their views on whether they come to work or not and in what interest they defend the confidence voted on by the people who voted for them and express their views in this House and in the committees. Once again, I urge you, colleagues, not to support the bill proposed by Mrs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act, No 854-01-77, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 25 October 2018. Vote 84 MPs: 1 against 66, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. We continue our work on the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHILDERS IN BULGARIA. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2019 We begin with the Internal Security and Public Order Committee report. Here you go, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber: Krasimir Tzipov Deputy Minister of Interior, Nikolay Nikolov, Director of the Directorate of Migration, Bilyana Stoykova, Senior Legal Consultant in the Directorate of Legal and Normal Activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u100	There's a proposal for admission. Please vote. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. You're welcome to present the report, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u101	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 902-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2019. At its meeting held on 13 March 2019 the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 902-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2019. The meeting was attended by Krasimir Tsipov Deputy Minister of Interior, Biljana Stoykova, Senior Legal Consultant in the Department of Regional Affairs and Law of the European Union. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Krasimir Tsipov. In his exhibition, the importer noted that the reasons for imposing the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria are related to the need to refine texts and remove imperfections in separate provisions of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, the Law on the entry, residence and departure of the Republic of Bulgaria of citizens of the European Union who are not Bulgarian citizens, and the members of their families, as well as the Law on Asylum and Refugees. One part of the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria are imposed with a view to settling the status and residence in the Republic of Bulgaria of the unaccompanied alien children, namely by issuing a permit for long stay in the Republic of Bulgaria until the age of age. The authorisation will be issued in accordance with the rules of application of the law. There is a legal framework regarding the resolution of disputes between parents of alien children with regard to the granting of a right of residence in the Republic of Bulgaria to those children. In view of this, the Bill establishes a procedure to regulate the judicial proceedings for granting a replacement consent by the court in the event of a disagreement between the parents of alien children in granting the right of residence in the Republic of Bulgaria. In this regard, after receiving the final decision of the Court of Justice, the Directorate of Migration, Department/sectors/groups of the Ministry of Interior will decide on granting the right of residence by checking the other documents and circumstances relating to the legal status of the child. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria provides that a permit for long-stay residence in the Republic of Bulgaria will be able to obtain foreigners who hold a long-stay visa and are representatives of a foreign trade company with registered, after verification and evaluation of documents submitted, on economic activity and tax orderliness of the foreign company for a period of two years prior to the registration of the representation, as well as of documents concerning its planned activities, by the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Commercial Representation in the Republic of Bulgaria. The permit for continued residence will be limited to three representatives for each foreign trading company. The Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry will inform the Directorate of Migration on a change in the circumstances of the registration of the representation. Next, changes are also proposed related to achieving greater clarity and synchronization with the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility. In the additional provisions of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria is amended the definition of "School" in accordance with the requirements of the Law on Pre-school and School Education. The Law on the Amendment and Supplement of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria introduces amendments and additions to the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. It is envisaged that the permit for residence of a long-term resident member of a family of a Bulgarian citizen with the marking of a family member of a Bulgarian citizen and the permit for residence of a long-term resident in the Republic of Bulgaria a foreigner with the marking of an unaccompanied child will be issued by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior with a period of validity of up to one year. In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill are proposed amendments to the regulations of the Law on Asylum and Refugees as a preventive measure against the possibilities for the conclusion of fictitious marriages in order to circumvent the Law and obtain international protection. In this regard, the family members of a family of beneficiaries of international protection, the family ties between which arose after entering the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and after granting the protection, will be able to obtain permission for long stay and any resulting rights under the general procedure provided for in the Law. There is also a mechanism for establishing and detecting an infringement and the possibility of applying the measure provided for in the Law on Asylum and Refugees for accommodation in a centre or premises of a closed type of foreigner seeking international protection in the Republic of Bulgaria and leaving without permission the designated movement zone. In this regard, a change is envisaged, providing that these violations will be established by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior with a constant protocol drawn up in three copies for the relevant structure of the Ministry of Interior, the State Agency for Refugees and the Foreigner. In order to ensure compliance of the Bulgarian legislation with the provisions of Directive 2013/32/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on common procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection, the Asylum and Refugee Act shall also specify provisions in order to ensure compliance with the provisions of Directive 2013/32/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on common procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection. There is also a legal framework for issuing residence certificates for members of the family of Bulgarian citizens who are citizens of the European Union and who have exercised their right to free movement. There is also a framework regarding the possibility to refuse the right of residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria in the event of established and proven fictitious cohabitation or fictitious marriage. The bill provides for the introduction of European legislation, which is why tables of compliance with European law have been drawn up. The adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria and the amendments to other laws do not lead to the need to provide additional funds. On the basis of art. 79, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are asked for an opinion by the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. In their reply they inform us that the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria aims to achieve greater clarity regarding the references to the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, which was discussed at a meeting of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation on 24 April 2018. On the basis of the vote held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 11 votes in favour, without the votes of abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 902-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u102	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Next, a report from the Commission on Children, Youth and Sports. Is there a representative of the Commission in this House? Let us continue with the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee report. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u103	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! To your attention, I present: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 902-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2019. At its regular meeting on 6 March 2019, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. By means of the Law presented by the Deputy Minister of Interior Krasimir Tzipov, texts and imperfections will be refined in separate provisions of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, the Law on the entry, residence and departure of the Republic of Bulgaria of the citizens of the European Union who are not Bulgarian citizens, and the members of their families, as well as the Law on Asylum and Refugees. At the same time, the Bulgarian legislation will comply with the provisions of Directive 2013/32/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on common procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection. The main objectives set by the Bill are: 1. Stop the possibility of circumventing the Law by foreigners who hold a long-stay visa and are representatives of foreign companies registered in the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. It is envisaged to limit the number of commercial representatives to three. 2. To achieve a reduction in administrative burden on highly qualified workers and seasonal workers in terms of their residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. When changing employer during their residence in the Republic of Bulgaria, highly qualified workers and seasonal workers should apply for a new residence right, which is an additional administrative burden for these categories of foreigners, as it requires holding a long-stay visa. 3. To arrange for the status and residence of unaccompanied alien children by issuing a permit for continued residence in the country until the age of age. To clarify the powers of the competent state bodies with regard to the care to be taken in relation to this category of foreigners. To introduce a new kind of document which will be issued to unaccompanied children foreigners. There is also a need for legislation regarding the resolution of disputes between parents of alien children in granting the right of residence in the Republic of Bulgaria to these children. 4. To establish a legal framework for issuing residence certificates for members of the family of Bulgarian citizens who are citizens of the European Union and who have exercised their right to free movement. There will be an opportunity to refuse the right of residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria in the case of established and proven fictitious cohabitation or fictitious marriage. The amendments to the Law on Asylum and Refugees will limit the application of the procedure for the collection of families of refugees only to persons whose family ties precede their entry into the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. 5. Enter an additional period (2 months) to examine an application for a permit for continued residence in legal and factual complexity and the need to provide additional information on the requested residence. 6. To complement a new category of foreigners to which long-term residence status can be granted to persons benefiting from international protection. 7. To establish provisions with a view to introducing a new structure that is responsible for issuing permissions for long-term residence of foreigners to the Directorate of Migration or Department/sectors/groups of "Migration" at the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior. 8. To introduce the mandatory personal appearance of a foreigner who wishes to reside in the Republic of Bulgaria when applying for this right. 9. Provisions relating to the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union without an agreement shall be introduced. After its withdrawal from the European Union, the United Kingdom will be a third country and the entry and residence of British citizens in the Republic of Bulgaria will be carried out under the terms and conditions of the Foreigners Act in the Republic of Bulgaria and its implementing rules. An exception to this situation will be British citizens who have established themselves and have established lasting ties with our country and their family members, and in the cases referred to in the Bill they will be valid for the reasons that were valid on 29 March 2019. At the same time, the proposed framework is entirely reciprocal to the one that the British country will propose for the citizens of the European Union, including the Bulgarian citizens who, on 29 March 2019, have established and resided legally in the United Kingdom. A written statement expressing principled support for the bill was received by the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 902-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u104	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveclieva. Is there a representative of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports? Here you are, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u105	Madam President, honourable Members! The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports at its regular meeting held on 13 March 2019 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 902-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2019. At the meeting of the Ministry of Interior attended: Mrs. Rositsa Grudeva, Director of the Legal and Regulatory Activities Directorate, Mrs. Margarita Delcheva, Deputy Director of the Directorate of Migration, Mrs. Bilyana Stojkova, Senior Legal Consultant in the Department of Regional Affairs and EU Law in the Directorate of Legal and Normal Activities, and Mrs. Vladislava Radonova, Expert in the Department of Official Migration, Bulgarian Citizenship in the Directorate of Migration. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Grudeva. The reasons for amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria are the need to refine texts in separate provisions of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, the Law on the Entry, Residence and Leaving of the Republic of Bulgaria of the citizens of the European Union who are not Bulgarian citizens, and the members of their families, as well as the Law on Asylum and Refugees. The proposed amendments and additions govern the status and residence in the Republic of Bulgaria of the unaccompanied children foreigners by issuing a permit for long stay in the Republic of Bulgaria until the age of age. Rules shall be established regarding the resolution of disputes between parents of alien children, as well as the issuance of a new kind of document for unaccompanied alien children. The bill regulates the legal proceedings to give replacement consent by the court in the event of disagreement between the parents of alien children in granting the right of residence in the Republic of Bulgaria. The powers of the competent state bodies with regard to the care of children of foreigners shall be reviewed. The following discussion was attended by the national representative Svetlana Angelova, who asked supplementary questions about the activities of the Social Assistance Directorate, related to the preparation of an opinion to the court in which the desires and feelings of the child are objectively reflected, as well as the ability of the parents to take care of it. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the 12-vote vote, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 902-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u106	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Will there be an opinion of the importer? Mr. Deputy Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u107	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! A major part of the bill is the legal regulation which we must adopt in relation to the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. This part of the Bill governs the possibility that British citizens who are resident permanently in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, after the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, are legally resident as they were at the moment. I would like to draw your attention to you, Members of the National Assembly, that we have here used the principle of reciprocity and these amendments to the Law on Foreigners, which are offered to your attention, are identical to those which will be adopted for Bulgarian citizens who are permanently residing in the territory of the United Kingdom. After its withdrawal from the European Union, Great Britain will be a third country and the entry and residence of British citizens in the Republic of Bulgaria should be carried out in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Foreigners Act. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in the area of citizens' rights, a common approach has not been adopted at European Union level. In this way, we believe that we should apply this principle of reciprocity in the settlement of the rights of British citizens in Bulgaria, and it will appear the most serious guarantee that the rights of Bulgarian citizens who reside and work in the territory of the United Kingdom will also be regulated in the same way. As mentioned in the reports from the leading and supporting committees, special provisions are laid down for members of the families of British citizens where, in cases where the United Kingdom will withdraw from the European Union and the right to a family gathering has not yet been exercised. In such cases, it may be exercised within the date of withdrawal until 29 March 2022 and the conditions for exercising that right are that the holder has successfully completed his re-certification procedure and that the family relationship was available by 29 March this year. Within the same deadline they will be able to submit documents and British citizens who are members of families of Bulgarian citizens. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, with regard to these procedures, all the rules will be followed and a security check will be carried out. We will also respect the principle of reciprocity here, as the same verification will be carried out by the British competent authorities with regard to applicants for the so-called status in the UK. In recent weeks and months, the subject has been extremely up-to-date, especially with regard to the fact that there is no clarity in what will actually happen, honourable Members of the National Assembly. The European Council, which is due in the next two days in Brussels, will also have talks about whether it is necessary to extend the Brexit deadline, but nevertheless the bill that we offer to your attention provides for these provisions to enter into force on 30 March this year. I would urge you to support this proposal by the Council of Ministers with the agreement, of course, that if an agreement is reached at EU and United Kingdom level to postpone Brexit's date, the date from which the relevant provisions currently at your attention must come into force must be changed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u108	Thank you, Deputy Minister Tsipov. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u109	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor on this bill to draw your attention to something very important. This is one of the bills we are looking at in plenary, which is related to both security and care. Why the care? I'll start with her. This bill finally found a practical solution to a problem that began with the first migratory flows, continuing and now for children to be used in migratory flows in two directions. One of them to cover up groups, so-called unaccompanied persons, to be an aid in their migration. The second is that these same children, who are accompanied, are abandoned when they come here. Our country had to finally make a decision on this issue... how to proceed with them. How, who to take care of, what to do? Here, in this bill, I welcome it because it is a result of experience, of practice, as a result of the conclusions and of the analysis that the Ministry of Interior made. Texts have come out that will work, which will help take care of this. In this bill, honourable Members, there are also some other texts relating to statuses that are falsely trying to be worked, if we can say so. A person who has received status makes a fictitious marriage, and we must transfer this status to the members of this family. Unfortunately, many families in this direction have more than 10 members in the communities that migrate to our country and to Europe. We can't afford to do that. However, this, colleagues, is taught in practice and as a result of the analysis. Here it is, the text has it. There is also a text here that I very much like. I will try to recreate it for you without emotion, however. Remember, there was an election campaign for the President of Bulgaria, where so much was said about migrants, migration, dangers from these migrants where they would go, where they would move, how they would work? Here, the left side of the room, which is empty, was practicing on people's fears, but what scary things, but how Harmanli, I don't know what. Here, in this law. [[shows him]] there is a text that says clearly and precisely: if twice leaves the authorised area.. closed type! However, the manipulators are not there now writing some strategies for Europe, instead of dealing with laws that solve problems of both Europe and Bulgaria, and in one of the most volatile, most dangerous, most frightening topics, how to solve practical problems with migration and migrants. Solve them so that there are no fears in people, no manipulations on these fears, taking care of the one who deserves it, and not letting whoever has no place here take advantage of the common rules. To have clear, precise and specific rules. Colleagues, support this bill because it is practically the experience of the Ministry of Interior of Migration, of the services on this topic and it has a place here now to be voted, because tomorrow we may have streams and increased pressure again! Then we won't have time to react with legislative measures! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u111	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Tzipov! I take the floor to express the positive assessment and, above all, the positive opinion of the parliamentary group of the Committee of the Republic of Bulgaria on the proposed Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. The draft amendments and additions discussed clarify the texts and remove the imperfections in the separate provisions of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, the Law on the entry, residence and departure of the Republic of Bulgaria of the citizens of the European Union who are not Bulgarian citizens, and the members of their families. The bill aims to achieve compliance of Bulgarian legislation with Directive No 32/2013 of the European Union. Among the proposed amendments, detailed and detailed in the reasons of the Bill as necessary in view of geopolitical realities, I would consider the following positive things: First, the settlement of the status and residence in the Republic of Bulgaria of the unaccompanied persons by issuing a permit for continued residence in the Republic of Bulgaria, i.e. until their age is completed; Secondly, creating the possibility of allowing for long-stay residence in the Republic of Bulgaria to receive foreigners who hold a long-stay visa and are representatives of foreign trade companies who are also registered in the Chamber of Commerce; third, the introduction of a mechanism to resolve disputes between parents of alien children regarding the right of residence of those persons in the Republic of Bulgaria; fourth, the establishment of a legal framework for issuing a residence certificate for members of families of Bulgarian citizens who are citizens of the European Union and who have exercised their right to free movement, as well as the establishment of a framework for the possibility of giving up the right of residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria in the event of established and proven fictitious cohabitation or fictitious marriage of what the colleague before me has spoken; Fifthly, the establishment of legislation regarding the settlement of residence of UK nationals and their family members in the Republic of Bulgaria after the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. The analysis of the proposed changes shows that they will clarify at the legal level cases that arise in the practice and to which the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria in the current form and connection to other laws have not given precise answers. In this way, the possibilities for a different interpretation from the authorities implementing them will be reduced. In view of the need to settle the above issues, we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we will support this bill at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u112	Thank you, dear Mr. Ahmedov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Deputy Minister and Guests from the Ministry of Interior! We have heard the opinions of the committees, the opinion of the applicant I will draw attention to the expected results a little more orderly, because indeed this bill for amendment and supplement of the Foreigners Act in the Republic of Bulgaria is important. A lot of things have been said, but the emphasis I think is that four laws are changing, except for foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, the Law on Asylum and Refugees and the Law on the entry, residence and departure of the Republic of Bulgaria of citizens of the European Union who are not Bulgarian citizens and members of their families. In fact, we refine many of the individual provisions in order to better implement them. GERB has said it many times since this tribune, when it comes to power, is trying to bring legislation into good frames. Thanks to my colleague before me, he mentioned Order 208. This legislation, which we are currently looking at, is related to the security of Bulgarian and European citizens. I will not go far, but I also recall Order No 208 when they changed it from the caretaker government illegally; we had put order on it; they objected to it: what happens to migrants who come to the country? The mayors were told in detail what they do to these migrants who come to our territory. The caretaker government has changed it, it's good, but we're going to change some things. Whether they work or not, no one cared. Anyway, we had then put this decree on the table and it was helping order in the state. Something similar about the administration in the state at the moment, I pay attention to this, and the Ministry of Interior, and others who have worked, as the government is the importer, after the agreed offers us an improvement in these four laws. First of all, the possibility of circumventing the Law on foreigners who hold a long-stay visa and are representatives of foreign companies registered in the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry will be suspended. That's what I talked about. Colleagues talked about it before me. Just to highlight some important things about this change. Those representatives of foreign trade companies will eventually have changes in their status quo, after verification and evaluation of presented documents on economic activity, the tax work of the trading company, and this for a period of two years before the registration of the representation, as well as documents on planned activities which will be monitored by the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The authorisation to limit itself to three representatives of a trading company was also mentioned by colleagues. The Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry will inform the Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, which will be a kind of controlling body of these processes. These texts tighten the regime in defence of the interests of the state and the control by the Directorate of Migration. Next, a reduction of administrative burden will be achieved against highly qualified and seasonal workers. With regard to their residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, it has been said, I only stress that so far, when the employer is changing the new documents, we do not need this thing. All of Europe is struggling, some of them are obviously wrong, because it was about how many migrants to accept Germany or any other country, but everyone needs highly qualified personnel. Like America does with green cards, by the way. The idea of blue for Europe was not unnecessary. But this is the goal of making the regime easier for those who will be useful to our economy. So this proposal is also very good. The residence status of unaccompanied alien children will be arranged by issuing a permit for long stay in the country until the age of age. I have counted nine such proposals, which are a whole package, not to repeat it, because it was said in detail, including Brexit, which Deputy Minister Tzipov mentioned. The whole package of such actions and texts that help resolve these disputes, including forgery marriages, including the relationship between these children and their parents. Next, legislation is created, honourable Members, for issuing a residence certificate for members of families of Bulgarian citizens who are citizens of the European Union and have already exercised their right to free movement, which is the right of every European citizen and our achievement. As well as the provision on the possibility of giving up, I pay attention to the right of residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria in the event of establishment or proven actual cohabitation and fictitious marriage, very abused by this status. The amendments to the Law will limit the application of the procedure for the collection of families of refugees only to persons whose family ties precede their entry into the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. In this way, this circumvention of the Law on Next Fictitious Marriages will be stopped and they will remain in our territory. That is, we are tightening the regime again and improving the security of citizens. I have noted one last thing: compliance will be achieved, in the texts it has actually been mentioned..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I'm missing, of course, the long exhibition you've made. Thank you to Deputy Minister Tsipov for Brexit. Whether it will happen or not, and how it will become clear, but this has also entered the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. This, honourable Members, is a work, as I mentioned at the beginning, of many experts, an administration which is directly related to the security of Bulgarian and European citizens........................that this was one of our priorities during the Presidency. With your attention to these expected implementation results, I call on everyone to support the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, as we did in the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, I remember, 17 people were for the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, and no one was abstentioned. Such numbers have also been heard from colleagues who presented the reports from the other committees. So I'm asking you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u114	Thank you, Mr. Radev. Replies to Mr. Radev's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2019. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. You have fulfilled Mr. Radev's call! Moving on to the next item on the agenda: HEARING OF THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND MESSAGES OF BASIC TURN. 113 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORKING OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THIS: WITH THE LAW ON ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS AND THE PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE, WHICH REQUIRED THE REQUIREMENTS OF DIRECTIVE 2014/61, THE PRESENTATION OF A SINGLE INFORMATION POINT, THE FACTION OF THIS PATFORM, AND THE REPRESENTATION OF THE DEDUCTION OF EXPENDITURE AND THE ADMINISTANCE OF CONNECTION OF HIGH ELECTRONICAL AND COMMITMENTS, THE CONVERSATION OF CONVERSATION TO INFORMATION. The people's representative Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 15 March 2019. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the GIS-based electronic platform project is designed to ensure the fulfilment of the requirements of Directive 2014/61 EU on measures to reduce the costs of deploying high-speed electronic communications networks. The project aims at effectively planning the deployment of these networks, the use of existing infrastructures and the coordination of construction works in order to reduce investment costs. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. BGN, very little from the Operational Programme "Good management". The project created a GIS based electronic platform. It provides access to information on existing physical infrastructure, roads, railways, power lines, optical routes and others. The single information point systematizes information from different sources which can subsequently be used by all interested administrations, business and citizens. The GIS technology enables the accumulated data and information to be used to manage the resources of private investors, regional and territorial planning by municipalities and others, and in the first stage of the project a study of the state of the existing physical infrastructure and information on the planned construction of network operators, as well as the available information available to public sector bodies and the possibilities for its digitization. When building, it is necessary to use already established and free IT products to save budgetary resources and ensure the possibility of further supplementing the data, correction, update and more. The established database is integrated with the available databases of the Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, Agency The developed platform is built on the basis of the open code, which means that no additional funds will be given for licenses, maintenance and others. It is thus ensured that municipal administrations and private operators will be able to make maximum use of its functionalities without imposing additional costs on them. The portal shall provide complete systematized and free access to: information on the territory of the whole country, on procedures and regulations governing the deployment and maintenance of electronic communications networks; the construction and use of their adjacent physical infrastructure, including for authorities competent to issue the relevant acts and fees for issuing them; existing physical infrastructure for the deployment of networks, including high-speed electronic, communications networks; planning or ongoing construction activities; deployment and installation, model documents necessary to obtain authorisations or other acts relating to the construction of physical infrastructure; model documents for notifications, for the deployment of networks and models of applications for obtaining rights, criteria and deadlines where access to information on the preceding points may be provided, limited or refused, including reasons for imposing restrictions or refusal; contact details of competent authorities and network operators to allow the establishment of direct connection with them, including information on the specific powers of the authorities relating to the planning, design, deployment and maintenance of electronic communications networks and the construction of physical infrastructure; including contact details of existing electronic communications networks. In order to ensure transparency and maximum stimulation of the joint investments of the platform, two public and free registers shall operate, a register of planned or ongoing deployment and installation activities of network infrastructure containing location and route information, type of infrastructure and method of use and a register of notices providing access rights to and sharing of physical infrastructure. The platform offers several electronic administrative services. Provides conditions to complete, supplement by electronic means the applications and documents necessary for the deployment and maintenance of electronic communications networks and physical infrastructure and to obtain information on the course of their examination by competent authorities. In relation to the following, Dear Minister, please inform us of current information about the project and its current state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u116	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. The word is given by the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov, in ten minutes to brief us on the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, you highlighted in your introduction, in your introduction the importance of the project itself and its impact on social and economic relations related to the deployment of electronic communications networks. If you allow me to make one clarification, for which all of you as MPs who voted to adopt the Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure as transposing such a European Directive, are well aware of the objectives and the impact on public relations which are linked to the development of electronic communications networks, which carry extremely important data for modern life and technology, the platform of electronic communications, voice, audio, video, television, radio and whatnot in the field of electronic communications. An effective deployment of electronic communications networks and the possibility of shared use of the built physical infrastructure is a major starting point. As you know, there are many enterprises in the country that own physical infrastructure.. Starting from suppliers of heat, electricity, gas suppliers, providers of electronic communications and networks, infrastructure providers building such infrastructure. You mentioned at your exhibition port infrastructure, railway infrastructure, road infrastructure. Each of these entities has such a physical infrastructure and the aim of the legislator is to be jointly used in the deployment of electronic and communications networks, which, on the one hand, creates investment interest, on the other hand, significantly reduces costs, from a third party, assists consumers, and property owners, and those who use waitresses to... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u118	Mr. Secretary, just a moment. Colleagues, please take your seats and be quiet! Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u119	...have all the reliefs, facilities, including economic stimulus, for the deployment of electronic communications networks. You correctly mentioned that we are seeing some delays, and you also mentioned the reason. The delay was due to the delayed public procurement because of an appeal, which was in fact in the essence of the policy of building information systems using only open source software. This is a policy that is laid down in the Law on Electronic Governance.......................... the policy of the state. In the present case, the objective is to ensure precisely the interests of network operators which, to one extent or another, already maintain information about their infrastructure. The project itself has been implemented. At present, it is appropriate to fill in the specific data that will enable any entity having an interest in the deployment of such networks to have full data on the physical infrastructure and the opportunities it offers for the deployment of electronic communications networks, including issues related to access points, sharing, the capacity of these infrastructures and so on. The availability of such timely information enables each investor to speed up the planning process and coordinate the construction of such infrastructure. Provides the possibility to complete applications electronically, to obtain direct information on the course of the examination and provides an easier and more transparent way to implement the investment process. I do not need to stress that all this leads to a significant reduction in the administrative burden, and even more so allows transparency and predictability of the entire investment process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u120	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, we're starting a well-known procedure. The first have the right to ask a question within two minutes of the MPs from the parliamentary group of GERB. Here you go, Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, it has become clear that under the Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure, as well as the requirements of Directive 2014/61 requires the introduction of a Single Information Point. My question to you, Minister, is: is there a delay in building this Single Information Point under the Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure, and if there are, what are the reasons for this, and what will you meet the expectations of network infrastructure operators?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Valkov, as I mentioned in the exposé, there is a delay in this delay is not significant. The law was recently adopted within the transposition procedure within the time limits laid down in the Directive. Of course, the realization of such a platform, which constitutes an information system necessary for securing, with a huge in its scope and a set of databases, implies the conduct of the procedure under the Public Procurement Act. Such a procedure was carried out. Its value amounts to a million and 800 thousand. lv. There was an appeal, which, as I mentioned, was mainly because of the contracting authority's requirement within the meaning of the Law on Electronic Governance for the use of open source software. The requirement for the use of such software is laid down for the newly built systems awarded under the Public Procurement Act. The purpose of this requirement within the meaning of the Law is entirely linked to the possibility of subsequent use of the code with its upgrade, with its deposit in the repository of software with such an open source, where the codes can be re-used, and last but not least, the possibility that the State does not spend a huge resource on licences in respect of software whose licensing policy of the companies providing them is always linked to the commitment of annual payments to such software. This led to the delay, but everything is over. The procedure has been confirmed. The product itself is ready and the actual work on filling the database is ongoing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u124	Thank you, dear Minister. Next, a question from the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs." Here you go, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! In connection with the debate on the construction of the geographical information system and in particular the so-called Single Information Point, our question to you is: what measures will be taken by the Ministry about ensuring the security of the significant number of informations and the database, which will contain precisely this electronic platform, called the Single Information Point? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u127	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Stoyanov! Thanks for asking. Recently, the National Assembly adopted a designated Cyber Security Act governing public relations related to ensuring the security of networks and information systems. Each information system should meet the standards and requirements of the Law. This system is no exception. The same is protected by strict definition of different levels of access. However, we are talking about data of different enterprises and different providers of 100 public services. This access must be free, but must be protected in view of the different levels of accessibility, data protected in view of their integrity and their inalienability. In this regard, there are different levels of authorisation of users. System administrators shall manage these rights in accordance with their functional and administrative profile and shall be able to verify all data, including those accessing the system. The security of this system is fully based on relevant protocols that provide the necessary levels of protection. It is about data protection, database protection, customer server communication, protection from various cyber attacks and protection from breakdowns and system sustainability. To ensure this thing, all known standards and protocols are used at present. You could say that this is one of the most modern systems that exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u128	Thank you, dear Minister. A question from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! The Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure is a very important law and a very difficult law which we have adopted with great effort in the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. You were also involved in this process at the time as Chairman of the Communications Regulation Commission, of course you know all this matter. I hope the coworkers have figured it out by now. I have no doubt that the work that was planned to build the Single Information Point is going according to plan despite delays. Of course, this is part of the open and transparent management, so these are normal processes and mourning procedures. There were many controversial situations while we were looking at the Law in the Commission. Individual operators, individual interested parties argued quite a bit and some of the texts then dropped out. A little later in the Law on Device in the Area, if memory serves, these texts were re-entered and adopted again, of course, I say it by memory. This was about the distance, if I'm not mistaken, from the physical network to the distribution box or the point there as we had noted them then. The question was: is this policy in your coalition partner's idea to please, or is it in the public interest? Because the Law was in a kind when we adopted it in the National Assembly as the Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure, and shortly thereafter we begin through the Law on Device in the Area to change it. Do you think that this change protects the public interest and that it serves someone specifically? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u130	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Letifov! As far as the amendments to the Law do not contradict the directive, I do not think that there is any reason to believe that they are changing the policy in the area of shared use of network infrastructure. You yourselves understand that this is a new approach, this is a new regulation of public relations. So far, each of the infrastructure owners, as I mentioned at the outset, these are all utility providers, including the built infrastructures in a road, railway aspect, jealously guarded their built-up physical infrastructure on the one hand, in view of the feeling that this belongs and is a monopoly of the operating undertaking itself, on the other hand, so that, upon admission by another user, another participant or wishing to take advantage of that infrastructure, would collect a tariff price that is unilaterally determined by the owner of that physical infrastructure. That is to say, the objectives of the Law, to the extent that they are a final result, the deployment of electronic communications networks because it is no secret that technology is developing faster than the ability of any legislator to respond everywhere to the regulation of these new public relations arising from the development of technologies, I think that the way in which the Directive is transposed by the Law and its additions meet, on the one hand, the objective of developing the electronic communications network, on the other hand, of sharing the built infrastructure with the aim of reducing prices and more efficient use of an infrastructure by multiple providers of electronic communications services or networks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u132	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Donchev, come in from Volya's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! We know that we have put a lot of effort into the Commission and also in this House to adopt the Law that we are discussing today. However, we know that each law, in order to be applicable and to have its respective action and utility, requires the adoption of the necessary relevant legal basis. In this regard, I would like to ask, what actions have you taken and when can we expect the adoption of the legislative framework of this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u134	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u135	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Donchev! The Law provides for specific issues which should not be settled within the meaning of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Transport, Information Technology and Communications by regulations of the Minister for Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Currently in the Ministry are prepared, adopted, prepared and subject to adoption, to validation of the relevant regulations in close interaction with other regulatory authorities. I give an example with the Commission for Energy and Water Regulation, with the Communications Regulation Commission, with other administrations, with business, with stakeholders. At present, I have signed a Regulation laying down the methodology for the allocation of costs at certain prices, for providing access and for sharing of physical infrastructure. Next week I will sign the already drawn-up regulation for the waitouts that arise in favour of the operators of electronic communications networks. We're about to have a public discussion. The good thing is that all stakeholders are very active during the public discussion, which shows the importance of this topic of rules and norms for the design, deployment and disassembly of electronic communications networks. Allow me to open up one clamp - this is also important for all floor property, where in the newly designed, newly constructed buildings is built an infrastructure that can be used by all network operators to prevent the chaos of deployment of multiple infrastructures, for multiple networks of different operators and, above all, television content providers, Internet providers and so on. Public discussion of the Ordinance on the content, terms and conditions for the establishment and maintenance of specialized maps and registers, on facilities and related infrastructure is forthcoming. At present, the finalisation and public consultation in April of the Ordinance on the conditions and arrangements for providing access to information on existing network deployment infrastructure, including high-speed electronic communications networks, and including the format of the data to be contained. You can see that this is a fairly broad regulation affecting different types of rules, the purpose of which is to create the order, the forecastability, the transparency concerned and in no case to create the prerequisites for increasing the administrative burden. The basis of these regulations is to further develop the principles of the Law, not to create new ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u136	Thank you, dear Minister. Moving on to the second round of questions. From the parliamentary group of GERB come in, Mr. Milushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u137	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The requirements laid down by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications for the Single Information Point suggest too great a burden for municipalities, especially the smaller ones who have a limited resource, will this affect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u138	Thank you, dear Mr. Milushev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u139	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Milushev, I think it is appropriate to mention that your finding could cause a corresponding concern among the municipalities, but it will not be allowed to do so. We are in very close interaction with not only the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, but also with all stakeholders, the National Association of Municipalities, taking into account their recommendations and experience. We all know that municipalities are an extremely important part of administrative service not only for citizens, but for businesses and businesses. In the implementation of the Project Single Information Point they are the main source of information, as a large part of the information is created, maintained and updated by municipalities. The aim is to aggregate this information through this platform, to process and systematise it without additional costs by municipalities, I stress, without additional costs. Through the platform will be accessible all services of municipal administrations as a step towards effective e-government. You know that the most direct way for information of the citizens of the respective locality is the municipal administration. In this regard, the training of municipal teams was undertaken and implemented. More than 120 experts have already been trained and the necessary instructions for working with databases have been drawn up to guide municipalities to systematize and process the information, including for their own needs. Of course, the work of any new information system takes time, but the purpose of the information system is to save such that the resource in training, the resource in getting to know the system is favorable because it will then save time not only and not so much to the administration, but will save time to citizens and businesses, which is also the purpose of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u140	Thank you, dear Minister. From the United Patriarchs? We're listening to your question, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u141	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! Wouldn't it be the Unified Information Point another place where business will provide information? And another question: how will the security of this information system be ensured?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u142	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u143	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Ivanov, let me say this: this will not be another place to provide the necessary information, and this will be the only place to combine the available information. The aim is to reduce, as I have repeatedly said, the administrative burden and this is an approach with addressees, not only users, but also an approach to facilitating undertakings that maintain such information and public service providers. There are certain differences with regard to the data aggregation approach and where we have compatibility, it is done within the system, and where, for technical reasons, integration is not possible such as with the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency or with the Road Infrastructure Agency, mechanisms are being established to re-use the available information. I would like to stress that, at present, companies from the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications system are the State-owned Port Infrastructure and the National Railway Infrastructure Company, have already integrated their data with the system and integration with the rest, including various telecommunications operators, has been taking place. That is to say, we are already in the process of integration, and so far we have found no reason to doubt that an additional burden is being created, and we have no reason to worry about it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u144	Thank you, dear Minister. From the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? No question. From the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodolists? No question. Colleagues, we are moving on to the attitude of the MPs from the parliamentary groups. Here you are, Mr. Kirchev, for attitude on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u145	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, it is also clear from the discussion that the platform Single Information Point is extremely important for improving the business climate in the country. So far, planning and building the infrastructure has been linked to the administrative burden and filling in and submitting multiple documents to various institutions. Therefore, it is essential to systematise this information in one place to ensure the accuracy of the data presented and to give confidence to investors. Digitalisation is key for a small country like ours and we should make it as easy and stimulate the deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks by promoting joint construction and where there is already a common use of physical infrastructure. This will achieve really more efficient and lower construction costs. On the other hand, we understand that the Single Information Point will enable many operators to monitor infrastructure planning and investment, changes and upcoming repairs, and thus can improve the process of planning and coordinating the construction of physical infrastructure. This will put an end to the constant excavation of the streets, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, will significantly reduce costs. The clear rules and transparency that the platform will impose will ensure fair and equal conditions for all investors, both small and large. This will stimulate small and medium-sized enterprises, especially at local level, to develop jointly and provide new jobs. It is commendable that it is ensured that there will be no additional and unjustified costs for municipalities and businesses. We hope that this will continue in the future, because especially small municipalities need support and assistance, as has become clear. This platform actually shows what a one-stop shop is, which we've been talking about for so long. This is a proper step towards validating e-government in the country at the level of central and local government. The further delay of this project should not be allowed, which will stop the coordination process between sectors. The functioning of this platform is our obligation as a member of the European Union country, and we must make maximum efforts to fulfil the commitment made, and within a short period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-20.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirchev. Will other parliamentary groups take action? I can't see. Colleagues, thank you for participating in today's hearing of Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. We've run out of time for today's plenary day. Tomorrow, a regular meeting of 9:00 p.m. I'm adjourned today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
