ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, at the Conference of Presidents, we have decided that there will be an extraordinary meeting on Tuesday to adopt small budgets, so I will propose to your attention a vote decision. I propose that a decision be adopted on the basis of art. 48, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly as follows: The National Assembly shall hold an extraordinary plenary session on 3 December 2019, Tuesday, 11:00 to 20:00 on the following agenda: 1. Second vote on the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2019, adopted at first vote on 12 November 2019. 2. Second vote on the Draft Budget Bill of the State Social Security for 2020. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2019, adopted on the first vote on 12 November 2019............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Please vote. Vote 172 MPs: 165, against 3, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I would like to present to your attention another proposal. On the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that it be included in the weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly as follows additional item: Second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2019, adopted in the first vote on 14 November 2019 and I propose that it be the first item for today's plenary session, 28 November 2019, with the first item of the first vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Tourism, importer is the Council of Ministers on 26 August 2019, to become the second item for today's plenary session, 28 November 2019. Please vote. Vote 167 MPs: 150, against 3, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Two messages: Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 14 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly were held a general meeting of the MPs elected by the multi-mandated electoral districts with registration of the Political Party GERB at the parliamentary elections held on 26 March 2017, which I'm sorry. I'm He elected Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov as vice-president of the parliamentary group of political party GERB. Please carry out the necessary actions under the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly. Chairman of the Parliamentary Group: Daniela Daritkova. The National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 22 October 2019. On 25 November 2019 and on 25 November 2019 the report was reviewed and discussed by the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on 21 November 2019. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Colleagues, we move on to the first item voted: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR FISHING AND AQUACULTURES. Please, Mrs. Dimova, introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u2	Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please vote on the admission to the meeting of the National Assembly for persons: Lozana Vasileva Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry; Galin Nikolov Executive Director of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u3	Please vote on this proposal for admission. They voted 143 MPs: for 139, they won't mind, they abstentioned 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u4	"Report on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, No 902-01-50, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2019, adopted on the first vote on 14 November 2019, for a second vote. "Repair for amendment and supplement of the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act. " The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u5	Statements? I can't see. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. Vote 128 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 26. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u6	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. A proposal from MP Stanislava Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 24 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinei 5 and 6 are amended as follows: supplied fishing during the light part of the day shall be permitted during all days of the week, outside the period of prohibition under art. 32, para. 1. (6) Amateur fishing during the dark part of the day shall be permitted only from the coast during all days of the week, between 1 April and 1 November, outside the period of prohibition under art. 32, para. 1 and only in fisheries establishments under art. 3, para. 1, t. 1 and 2, defined by the order of para. 9. 2. The creation of para. 9. The order, the conditions and the objects under para. 6 which authorise recreational fishing during the dark part of the day shall be determined annually by order of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry on a proposal from the Executive Director of the IRA.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u7	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1, supported by the Commission, and the newly created § 2. They voted 133 MPs: 104, against 21, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u8	A proposal from the MP Yordan Apostolov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: In Article 3, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 66, para. 3 words................................................................................. The following points are inserted A proposal from MP Stanislava Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 4: ............................................ Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 48 the word "means" is replaced by "handcuffs and batons." 2. Point 53 is inserted: "53." The dark part of the day is the period: (a) 18.30 hours to 06.30 hours for the months November, December and January; (b) from 20.30 hours to 06.00 hours for the months of February, March and April; (c) from 22.00 hours to 05.00 hours for the months of May, June and July; (d) 21.00 hours to 06.00 hours for the months of August, September and October. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u9	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the new paragraphs 3 and 4; the name of the subdivision and the text of the importer for § 2, which shall become § 5, all supported and proposed by the Commission. Vote 128 MPs: 98 against 1, abstention 29. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u10	A proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 6: ........................................................... In the Agricultural Support Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9a, t. 2 the 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9b, t. 1 the 3. In § 12 of the transitional and final provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on support for farmers (OJ C 335, p. 2 from 2018) are created para. 3 and 4: For the initiated and unfinished proceedings under para. 1 in which the selection of applications under the measures and sub-measures under Article 1 shall be carried out. 9b, t. 2 of the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020: 1. no payment shall be made to users and beneficiaries of the aid for which there are circumstances for removal under art. 54, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 55, para. 1, t. 1 of the Public Procurement Act or which did not comply with an order of the European Commission to recover the unlawful and incompatible State aid granted to them; 2. no payment shall be made to users and beneficiaries of the aid 54, para. 1, t. 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the Public Procurement Act or which have not complied with an order of the European Commission to recover the unlawful and incompatible State aid granted to them; the grounds under art. 54, para. 1, t. 1, 2 and 7 of the Public Procurement Act refer to the represented municipality or the local branch of religion; 3. no payment shall be made to a user and a beneficiary of the aid, a local action group of which members of a board or control body shall be municipalities in respect of which there are circumstances for removal under art. 54, para. 1, t. 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the Public Procurement Act or which have not complied with an order of the European Commission to recover the unlawful and incompatible State aid granted to them; the grounds under art. 54, para. 1, t. 1, 2 and 7 of the Public Procurement Act refer to the represented municipality; 4. the regulatory requirements for users and recipients of grants relating to the application of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OB, L 298/1, 26 October 2012) shall not apply.), including the requirements for the application of documents. (4) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests may determine in the ordinance under art. 9a, t. 3 conditions and arrangements for granting and payment of aid in the proceedings under para. 1: 1. in the event of a change in the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020; 2. in the event of a change in the legal act relating to the programme under point 2. 1; 3. for the execution of effective judicial decisions; 4. in relation to the results of the audit checks carried out. A proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 7: .................................................... In the Law on Implementation of the Common Organisation of the Markets in Agricultural Products of the European Union (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 74, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 63, 64 and 73 63, 64, 73 and 73a Under § 3, there is a proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u11	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the newly created § 6 supported by the Commission; the new § 7 again supported by the Commission; and the text of the importer for § 3 which becomes § 8 also supported by the Commission. They voted 130 MPs: 102, against 3, abstention 25. The proposal is adopted, with this and the Draft Law at second reading. Moving on to the next point: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE TURISM LAW. The Economic Policy and Tourism Committee report will introduce us to Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u12	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Presenting: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, No 902-01-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 August 2019. At its extraordinary meeting on 14 November 2019, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act. The bill was presented by the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova. The bill aims to provide additional conditions for the sustainable development of tourism and the successful implementation of state tourism policy; optimization of procedures for the provision of administrative services and guaranteeing the quality of tourism activities and services. The rules regarding the applicable criteria and requirements for the activity in the territory of national resorts shall be specified. National resorts will be announced as such by a decision of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Tourism. Those who will operate in accommodation and entertainment establishments in the territory of national resorts shall be provided for twice as soon as possible for the operation of administrative services. The National Resort Regulation will set out: the criteria to be met by the resorts to be declared national; the order to announce a national resort; the organisation and management of tourist activities on the territory of the national resorts. National resorts are intended to carry out the so-called product zoning of functional zones. The product zoning and the conditions for carrying out tourist activities in the areas should be laid down in a regulation adopted by the relevant municipal council. The Law introduces a requirement for the municipal council to define the tourism development policy on the territory of the municipality, with a separate section containing a tourism development programme included in the programme for the realization of the municipal development plan. The role of tourism Advisory Councils is strengthened, including discussion and approval of the draft municipal tourism development programme. Tourist associations through which the representatives of the tourism business have the opportunity to participate in the work of the tourism management bodies will be registered in the National Tourist Register, provided that the association has operated not less than 3 years from its entry under the Non-Profit Legal Entities Act. The notions of local, local and professional association shall be reviewed. The currently existing Expert Committee on Categorisation and Certification of Tourist Sites is divided into two separate committees: Expert Committee on Categorisation of Tourist Sites and Expert Committee on Certification of Tourist Sites. The change takes into account the specifics of the two regimes and the need for the timely completion of the individual categorisation and certification procedures for tourist sites. The work of the Expert Committee on Registration of Tour Operators and Tourist Agents is also optimized. Following talks with the associations registered in the National Tourist Register in the field of winter sports, the need to clarify the rules for carrying out activities is established. The correct and safe technical operation and maintenance of swimming pools are detailed. The bill provides for a specific identification code of the classified accommodations to be generated by the National Tourist Register and will contain data on the classified tourist site. A National Register of tourist attractions, festivals and events is established to include the two existing registers of tourist attractions and the Register of tourist festivals and events. The provisions governing administrative criminal liability in the event of a repeated infringement shall be completed. In their written opinion of the Ministry of Interior insist on the cancellation of art. 28, para. 4 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, as the systematic place of the legal norm is in the Law on Tourism. The President of the Commission for Consumer Protection Dimitar Margaritov expressed support under the bill and said that the provisions optimize the plantation regime and create conditions for better coordination between the CPC and the Ministry of Tourism. The Bulgarian ski school is insisting, in terms of professional competence and qualification of ski teachers, not to refer to the regulation under art. 97, para. 6 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports. The Bulgarian Tourist Chamber expressed concern that texts from the Bill restrict their participation in the expert committees. The Law provides for branch travel associations to be separate for hotel and restaurant and for tour and travel agent activities, and the House is registered as a professional tourist association. That's why they insist on flexing art. 55 to make it clear that a branch travel association may include persons from both sectors. They also demand a change in the definition of a professional association from which to delete legal persons providing additional tourist services related to the profession concerned. According to them, they should not be included in the professional associations as they are commercial companies. The Association of Bulgarian Tour Operators and Tourist Agents declared against the cancellation of art. 98, para. 3 which introduces an obligation on the website of the Ministry of Tourism to publish information on a contract for compulsory insurance. They insist not to support the creation of a new item. 13 in art. 50, which provides for the maintenance of a public list of persons excluded by violation of the code of ethics of a tourist association. With the motive of duplication and disproportionateness of sanctions, they want to drop or decrease some of them. During the discussion the people representative Valeri Simeonov expressed doubts about the appropriateness of the text to announce national resorts to be carried out on a proposal by the Minister of Tourism with a decision of the Council of Ministers. The members of the Commission agreed on the opinion that the text of art. 56c on product zoning, which can be carried out on the territory of national resorts, and the conditions for carrying out tourist activities in the separate areas defined by the ordinance of municipal councils must be carefully refined. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results:....................... 11............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, No 902-01-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 August 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u13	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveclieva. Following is the Commission's report on children, youth and sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, No 902-01-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 August 2019. At its regular meeting on 9 October 2019, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports examined and discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, No 902-01-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 August 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Asen Markov, Secretary General of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Mrs. Sabina Krustanova, Director of Legal Administrative Service at the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Mrs. Irena Georgieva, Deputy Minister of Tourism, and Mrs. Lilyana Arsova. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Irena Georgieva, Deputy Minister of Tourism. This bill refines and improves legislation in the field of tourism. The bill sets three main objectives: providing additional conditions for the sustainable development of tourism and the successful conduct of state policy in tourism, optimizing procedures for the provision of administrative services and ensuring the quality of tourism activities and services. The regulatory provisions of the bill, which are within the Commission's competence, are the new Chapter 9a Ski Schools. The texts in this chapter determine that the training of tourists in winter sports is carried out only by ski schools entered in the National Tourist Register and professional competence and qualification for snow sports training have persons who meet the requirements of the ordinance under art. 97, para. 6 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports. The requirements to be met by ski schools in order to be entered in the National Tourist Register and the cases in which registration is terminated shall be laid down. For the purposes of the registration procedure, a new panel of experts shall be set up to assess whether the requirements for entry by the applicant have been met. Representatives of the Ministry of Youth and Sports participate in the composition of the Commission. The registration of ski schools is timeless. Given the importance of the matter concerning ski slopes and ski zones and their restraint, the importer provides for the establishment of a committee to determine the degree of complexity of the ski slopes as well as their safety. The scope with the inclusion of children's ski zones and snow parks is extended and the types of ski slopes are refined and used. The Commission is composed of representatives of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, of the Bulgarian Federation and of tourist associations in the field of snow sports. The Commission may also carry out ongoing checks on the safety and information security of ski slopes, on children's ski zones and snow parks, on ski roads and routes representing a link between ski slopes and sections for the movement of tourists, as well as the provision of tourist services on their territory. The checks shall be carried out during their period of operation. Following the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 9 votes for the vote, without the vote against the Council of Ministers, and 6 votes abstention, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposed to the National Assembly to support a first vote Draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Tourism, No 902-01-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 August 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u15	Thank you, dear Dinev. Mrs. Stoyanova, would you like to introduce us to the Health Committee Report?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! Presenting: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, No 902-01-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 August 2019. At its regular meeting on 19 September 2019, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, No 902-01-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 August 2019. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Hristina Getova, Director of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Health, Mrs. Irena Georgieva, Deputy Minister of Tourism, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Mrs. Georgieva. This bill should specify and improve the legislation in the field of tourism. For this purpose, three main objectives are set: providing additional conditions for the sustainable development of tourism and the successful conduct of state policy in tourism, optimizing procedures for the provision of administrative services and ensuring the quality of tourism activities and services. The proposed changes to the Tourism Act are essential for better regulation of the tourism sector and, accordingly, for improving the quality of tourism services. The bill details the legal framework regarding the applicable criteria and requirements for the activity in the territory of national resorts. This is aimed at implementing the "Monastery 790: Creating a modern legal regulation for the status and management of national resorts" which is part of the Programme of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021. The presentation of the Bill also highlights that the proposed specific framework of the requirements to be met by the national resort creates a better opportunity for the implementation of the state policy for the development of national resorts as a tourist destination. The new chapter in the Draft Law......... National resorts............................................................................................. According to the amended definition in the Tourism Act, the resort is urbanised territory within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 13 of the Additional Provisions of the Health Act, declared in accordance with Art. 76, para. 2 of the Health Act for a resort which may be situated on the territory of one or more municipalities and for which a decision under art. 56a, para. 1. National resorts are resorts of importance for the sustainable development of tourism, in which the necessary tourist infrastructure of a national resort is built and which are generally accessible and have natural, anthropogenic and cultural-historical resources to provide recreative, healing, restorative, cognitive, business, entertainment or other services and are primarily intended to attract tourists. The bill provides for the Minister of Tourism together with the Minister of Health to develop and submit for adoption to the Council of Ministers a draft regulation for national resorts to be laid down: the criteria to be met by the resorts to be declared national resorts; the order of the declaration for a national resort; the organisation and management of tourist activities on the territory of national resorts and others. There is an opportunity to perform the so-called product zoning on the territory of national resorts. The Committee on Health received an opinion from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria (NSORB), expressing support for the draft. The National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria expresses special support for: the envisaged possibility of product zoning in the territory of the national resorts, which will enable adequate development of the tourist product according to local conditions and specifics; the amendments to art. 11, which provides for the tourism development programme to become part of the programme for the implementation of the municipal development plan; the introduction of the requirement for the immediate entry of accommodation accommodations, which is a prerequisite for real control by municipalities; the establishment of a National Register of tourist attractions, festivals and events; a new chapter of the 15th chapter, which will create an opportunity for wider disclosure and advertising of events from municipal cultural calendars and local tourist attractions. On the basis of the discussion held and the vote taken on the following results: 15 votes for the Tourism Act, No 902-01-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 August 2019...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u17	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u18	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to draw attention to a fundamental point in this proposal, a bill amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, and it concerns the settlement of resorts. Although there is a definition of a national resort in the current Tourism Act with the proposed specific framework of the requirements to be met by a national resort, the new amendments create a better opportunity for the implementation of the state policy for the development of national resorts as a tourist destination. At present it is clear that there are problems related to the management of national resorts. A mechanism for their management has also been discussed for a long time and there is no detailed arrangement of status. The presented bill takes steps in the right direction to solve the identified problems. Sustainability of tourism policies is achieved as a priority and in implementation of the Programme of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021 and in particular "Myarka 790: Establishment of modern legal regulation for the status and management of national resorts and sustainability is achieved. The definition of a national resort in the Tourism Act differs in meaning and has a wider scope than the concept of a resort of national importance and a local entity of national importance to satisfy resort needs provided for in the Law on Health and the Law on the Administrative and Territorial Structure of the Republic of Bulgaria respectively. Specific provisions also provide the possibility of sustainable development of our national resorts, sustainable tourism development and competitive national tourism product. With the creation of the Fourth Chapter, the National Resorts are given the legal opportunity for resorts after the fulfilment of certain conditions, mainly related to the construction of the necessary tourist infrastructure, to receive the status of a national resort. This special status will have a positive impact on the development of their economy and will lead to an increase in the quality of the proposed tourist product. This, in turn, will lead to better regulation of the tourism sector and increased quality of tourism services. The Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Tourism Act proposes the Council of Ministers with a decision to appoint a national resort resort, announced in the list of resorts under the Health Act. The proposal to be made by the Minister of Tourism after applying by the local authorities. It is also envisaged that the national resort will be located on the territory of one or more municipalities. Here is the place to note that the procedure for announcing a resort as a national includes all members of the Council of Ministers, but since they are resorts of national importance for the development of tourism, the proposal for their announcement as such should also come from the Minister of Tourism. National resorts are resorts that are important for the sustainable development of tourism, where the necessary tourist infrastructure is built, which are generally accessible and have natural, anthropogenic and cultural-historical resources to satisfy recreative, healing, restorative, cognitive, business, entertainment or other needs and are primarily intended to attract tourists. An incentive measure for persons who will operate in accommodation and entertainment establishments in the territory of national resorts to receive administrative services under the Tourism Act as soon as possible. A regulation is to be drawn up jointly by the Minister of Tourism and the Minister of Health for national resorts to regulate the criteria for the resorts to be declared national, the order to declare and declare a national resort, the organisation and management of tourist activities on the territory of national resorts. Many opinions, other than branch organisations, were heard in the Commission by the persons affected by the Law, and I believe that this was the right way to achieve better precision through dialogue and this can happen between first and second reading respectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u19	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveklieva. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u20	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the BSP parliamentary group in the first vote will abstain from voting. The reasons are these: in the Law there are some positive things, but the majority of the proposals for us are, to put it mildly, questionable and quite controversial. I will give some examples of what is proposed in the Law. First of all, the essence of the proposal in the Law is the establishment of national resorts, as the speakers said before me, and also from the reports of the committees it became clear that a national resort exists at the moment and it is within the meaning of § 1, item. 13 of the Health Act. In our view, there is no need for further aggravating definitions and powers in this sense. As I said, I will give some examples of positive and negative proposals in this bill. First, the proposal to create national resorts. What is positive about this is that almost twice reduced administrative service deadlines are offered to economic operators operating in national resorts. So much for the good news about the national resorts. The negative is offered product zoning in national resorts, that is to say, defined areas where noise may occur up to 1 and 2 a.m., because not lying is the main design of this product zoning. Colleagues, can you imagine the right to decide the rules in these national resorts is given to the municipal councils? First, if we give municipal councils these rights, why do we call them national resorts? If they are national, they should be regulated at national level and not at municipal council level. Secondly, local elections just ended. We are all witnessing how the municipal councils in many municipalities entered purely local structures, associations that are entirely economic groups of interests. These groups should not be given the right to determine which area falls into the national resort, because by this logic, if you have a restaurant somewhere in the national resort, you will find yourself in the right area by paying for it. Given that the municipal councils in the national resorts are largely small with a capacity of 10.15 municipal councillors, it will not be expensive to pay to get into the right area, that is, creating an environment for corruption. About the matter of expert committees. The division of the Expert Committee on Classification and the Expert Committee on Certification is positive because we currently have a very serious delay in re-assessing and re-certification of the sites that we support. At the same time, we do not support the establishment of an expert committee for registration of ski schools, because this is more of the competence of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. The other proposal for the establishment of another Expert Commission for the definition of the complexity of ski slopes is also, in our opinion, one of the competences of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, because the Ministry of Youth and Sport deals with professionals, athletes, while the Ministry of Tourism deals with tourists. About the ski school proposal. What is positive about this proposal is that the profession is practiced only through ski schools. The opportunity to freely exercise the profession of a teacher is dismissed, which is positive because it avoids the possibility that a random tourist will accidentally hire a ski teacher with controversial competences, so that the ski school bears some responsibility and provides some guarantee that the ski teacher has the necessary competences. That's what we support. Regarding the negative impact, it is clear that the ski coach deals with professional athletes who train in high sports and prepares them for competitions, while the work of the ski teacher is to deal with amateur tourists who have gone to try to learn this sport, so they do not need such a competence as ski coaches do. We do not support this proposal either. Colleagues will also say about some other proposals that we also do not support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. Are there lines? I can't see. Mr. Iankov wanted, Mr. Boychev also wanted a statement, then Mr. Simeonov and Mrs. Alexieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u22	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! With regard to the proposed amendments and additions to the Tourism Act. First of all, what you're proposing is a skeleton. Skeleton, which you are yet to build through regulations; an empty box, a black box, in which it is not clear what exactly there will be and how the overall regulation will be carried out, which, in my opinion, after proposing regulations through regulations, will be aggravating in doing business in this sector, because excessive regulation hinders the sustainable development of tourism and the conduct of state policy in the sector at the same time. The rhetorical question is: why are you hiding what exactly you will do about this sector? The second rhetorical question is what have you done in three years as a minister, as a ministry and administration, to assist the sector, after you have reached the point that the sector needs additional regulation to date. You do not solve problems related to optimizing the processes of registering tour operators, travel agents, categorizing accommodation and dining establishments. The division of two of the Expert Committee on Categorisation and Certification of Tourist Sites is an administrative measure that does not compensate for the lack of capacity. Either you're covering up or you don't know the difficulties created by this expert committee at this time, or you don't hear the industry's recommendations? A shortening of time limits as you have written down is not imperative. Once again, the possibility has been left behind and it is envisaged to issue a temporary certificate. And I ask the question: do you know what difficulties these temporary certificates cause because of the failure to comply with the deadlines and inability to meet the lack of capacity of the Ministry of Tourism, and in particular this expert commission? Those who are busy in the industry know what the problems are and at the same time what you say with the so-made proposals: everything remains the same as the wishful thinking through the division of this expert committee to expect something to be improved. The repression of the state is a mandatory element in the administration of the government of Boyko Borisov from the first cabinet 2009 is increasing again. However, do you realize that the repression of the state hinders the free initiative to do business, the development of tourism? The increase in the amount of sanctions and their scope, I stress, you have recorded that: in the event of a first infringement, a fine or penalty. In the event of a second violation, both of them will be fined and charged. To help those involved in the sector provide the service, build the image of Bulgaria as a tourist destination and make a significant contribution to the provision of the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. What exactly are you going to achieve? You're in the way of this sector. Although you have written down in the reasons, I argue that through this proposal you do not provide additional conditions for the sustainable development of tourism and successful conduct of state policy, you do not optimize procedures for the provision of administrative services which are within the competence of the Ministry of Tourism and the dependent authorities under your authority and do not guarantee the quality of tourism and services. You are interfering with the proposals made to the entire sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I can't see. Here you are, Mrs. Alexieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! I will address the subject of reducing the administrative burden in the Tourism Act, which is the opposite statement by the colleague who spoke before me. I don't know which Tourism Act has read and which changes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u25	Where did you see this relief?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u26	You've got a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u27	We are not proposing excessive regulation, but with this bill we are implementing another step in implementing measures to reduce the administrative burden of citizens and businesses and the development of electronic governance. These are priorities that are laid down in the Program for the Management of Mr. Borisov and the Government. The need for optimization of the relevant expert committees was reported, as well as for finding a mechanism for achieving individualization of tourist sites by optimizing three of the procedures in the Tourism Act: registering tour operators and travel agents, categorizing accommodation and dining establishments, as well as certification of the adjoining centres and independent centres in the resort and urban environment for balneological, spa, wellness and thalassotherapy services. The documents relating to the application for registration, categorization or certification will be examined within 14 days of their entry by officials appointed by the Minister of Tourism on their compliance with the requirement of the Tourism Act. Only after the assessment of the regularity of the documents by the officials shall they be submitted to the relevant expert committee for examination and ruling. So I believe that these changes optimise administrative services and ensure the quality of the services provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u28	Thank you, my dear Mrs. Alexieva. - What's the line? Mr. Prodanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u29	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Alexieva! In your statement, you claim that this bill reduces the administrative burden of nothing like that. On the contrary, the administrative burden is increased and a corrupt environment is created. Here in this Chamber we talk a lot about corruption and the fight against corruption. Giving in the hands of municipal councillors and municipal councils to decide and manage national resorts, certification and categorization of local sites is precisely this creation of corruption environment. So I disagree with your claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u30	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. Is there gonna be another line? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u31	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! Dear Mrs Alexieva, just because a prepared statement should be read from the parliamentary platform does not mean that it is filled with content and arguments. Do you know what a reduction in the administrative burden is, not to relieve the regime, but to reduce the administrative burden? You don't know. That's why you're telling honest lies, the lie you apply to every proposal you have to pass as a vote...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u32	Mr. Yankov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u33	...from the majority, without hearing arguments. What is proposed is the possibility of the state exercising repression over an entire industry and reducing the administrative burden there is no. There is the creation of conditions for corruption, an increase in the corruption environment, but you clearly do not understand that.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u34	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Is there gonna be a third line? I can't see. Mrs. Alexieva, the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, honourable replicators! Mr. Prodanov, in his statement before me, also admitted that reducing the administrative burden and reducing the time limits for examining the applications submitted by industry organizations is also positive in this bill. So I think you should agree with me on this subject. I would also like to say that this law has been widely discussed and what we have commented in the Commission in the presence of all industry organizations of stakeholders and organisations in this sector is that there will indeed be a clarification of some of the texts between first and second readings. I think these are very good proposals that have been made particularly in this area, and there is no way to talk about corruption practices and repression or an increase in administrative burden. On the contrary, we're talking about the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u36	Thank you, my dear Mrs. Alexieva. Mr. Boychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we will strongly support at first reading the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Tourism because it meets the modern needs of the industry, this dynamically developing industry and fills gaps in the Law. The focus of the Law are the national resorts, and I would say fill with content the functioning of these national resorts, which are very important for the development of our tourism. I would just like to note to the Ministry that when establishing the regulation, which is delegated as rights of the Minister of Tourism and the Minister of Health, there should be a little more communication with the Association of Municipalities and Mayors, because in contact with the mayors, they had a lot of questions about the situation and regulation of these national resorts and their determination by decision of the Council of Ministers. For me, all the regulations are positive and will give good regulation to this business. I am certain that there is also a reduction in the administrative burden in the regulations, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that I would also like to see texts that regulate the reinvesting of funds in these national resorts. What do I mean? National resorts are located in the territory of municipalities and they form, I would say, a very large part of the budgets of the respective municipalities. I will give an example in particular with Sunny Beach. It is one of the emblems of our national resorts and emblems of our summer tourism in itself and as a brand. He, conditionally speaking, may form about 30% of the budget of the municipality of Nessebar, but accordingly, because there are no permanent residents in these national resorts, from this point of view they are not as attractive as voters in certain elections for the respective municipality and for the respective mayor. In good faith, the mayor reinvests in infrastructure. I would say that Sunny Beach is already at a critical minimum with the maintenance of its basic infrastructure, of alleys, of landscaping, of lighting, which depends on the municipality and is desirable. Yes, and in the current provisions of the Law, the budget, which is formed by tourist activity, such as: the tourist tax, as part of the concessions on the beaches, 40% of which enter into the budgets of municipalities, should be spent on activities related to the development of tourism, but alas, this is virtually not visible and it is desirable. I wish there were regulation of some of those taxes that form national resorts to be reinvested in infrastructures. In my opinion, we should think about it in this direction in the future. Between first and second readings, I would also like to draw attention to the need to think, together with the Ministry, and in the working group, about product zoning. I am also skeptical that these provisions can work from the point of view of the fact that there is already a built-up fund and I do not think that practically any areas can be created that are outside regulation if it is nightclubs outside the scope of the noise law that operates. If we are talking about newly created such and emerging national resorts, yes, but I do not think that this provision would work and between first and second reading should be considered in this direction. There are a lot of other positive things, like the coworkers said. Reducing the administrative burden is, in my opinion, a very good unification of the National Register for Tourist Landmarks, which will give a clearer regulation of these landmarks that are located in the regions concerned and the possibility of their development. There is also regulation in the provisions proposed to us to maintain the infrastructure, which is positive. As I said, at first reading we will support the Law and it meets the requirements of the industry in our opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u38	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Are there any lines? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova, for the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u39	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Colleague Petrov, I am very interested in listening to the questions with which you are constantly saying: national resorts and resorts of national importance. I'd like to ask the following question. With the Order of the Council of Ministers in 2005, eight resorts of national importance were appointed........................ two mountain and six seaside resorts. Later on with the Order of the Council of Ministers in 2012 under the Health Act, and here is my worry, I assume that you will develop it because you are a person chosen from an area that is seaside, with this decree No 153 the climate resorts of national importance are 18 and in your constituency are recorded: Ahtopol And now the expansion of this status?! The first is under the Law on the Administrative and territorial Device. Secondly, now it is written in the Law that the Ministry of Tourism with the Ministry of Health will make proposals in the Council of Ministers. So, how much are we gonna make out of 18? Let's announce the entire Black Sea coast as a national resort with this law. I would just like to hear your comment: from two to how many in your constituency, over eight in your constituency, and how do you see it in the next bill, what will happen in the one we are now looking at?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u40	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Second line? I can't see. Hole, Mr. Boychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u41	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mrs. Yankova, I do not think that these provisions in the Law are for creating more national resorts. On the contrary, in my opinion, the regulations give more detailed options for the situation of such resorts, when they are located, the possibility for these resorts to act as national resorts and act as an emblem for the development of our tourism. Your question was: how many more resorts will we create? I don't think that's the purpose of the bill. On the contrary, the aim of the Bill is to give more detailed provisions with the creation of such national resorts and, accordingly, to make them the emblem of our tourism and to function as such.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u42	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Mr. Simeonov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u43	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The Parliamentary Group will not support the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Tourism Act for a number of reasons, but, above all, in principle, differences and concepts related to the philosophy on which this text is drawn up. First of all, it is wagering one encapsulation, mainly on the topic of National resorts, which is one of the main proposed changes, encapsulating only within the Ministry of Tourism. The text of the item has been changed. 5 in art. 6, which is much wider and so far envisioned national resorts to be determined by a decision of the Council of Ministers, but on a proposal from the Ministry of Tourism, together with other state authorities, organizations and so on and so forth. In other words, the transfer of the right to offer which and which non-national resorts in the Ministry of Tourism is actually a form of tourist dictatorship, a dictatorship. I cannot accept and not only myself, and my colleagues cannot accept that a resort that has a rehabilitation purpose related to health recovery and so on can be competently determined by specialists of the Ministry of Tourism, which, as we know, there are no 100 people, and there are no such specialists. The same applies to the need for engagement of the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Environment and Water and so on and so forth. All these institutions, ministries, state authorities are excluded with the new text and the right to offer the Council of Ministers which national resorts is only the Ministry of Tourism. It's at stake in art. 6 as well as in art. Art. 56a. 56b, where the Ordinance on National Resorts is also defined and is still available only on a proposal from the Minister of Tourism, excluding the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Environment and Water. This, in my opinion, is not for the benefit of the professional tourist organisation in the Republic of Bulgaria in any way. The second, with which we strongly disagree, is again in art. 6, p. 5 The new proposal for a new point 37. It deserves to be read and given a little thought to it. It reads as follows: The tourism ministry announces a list of categories of information classified as a business secret for the field of activity of the Ministry of Tourism and the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Tourism. Do you understand? It is about the introduction of a complete information eclipse, and the lack of information is the best environment for creating and developing corruption. Such text in the 21st century, in 2019, I think it is not only not European, it is unacceptable. Unacceptable! I would like to remind you that with the votes of the majority in this Chamber, after several unsuccessful attempts, at last... several months ago, amendments to the Law on concessions were adopted, and the concessionation of the beaches was transferred to the powers of the Law on Construction of the Black Sea Coast. There was a very important detail that in the Law on concessions the full documentation on the conduct of competitions for concessions was public and available on the Internet. According to the Black Sea Coast Construction Act, however, related to concessions on beaches, this information is defined as confidential, confidential and each participant in each competition is signed that it is not entitled to distribute and export this information. Here, with a t. 37 now, with the new proposals for amendments to the Tourism Act, it is not just the beaches anymore, but any information that the Ministry of Tourism felt should remain secret. So, we have the two necessary conditions for a full dictatorship, and the initiative in the hands of the Ministry, in the leadership of the Ministry, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the introduction of an information curtain. It reminds me of some other times, as I said in the Commission, I will not repeat myself, not to politicize ourselves so much. From now on, there are also a number of other, smaller such unexplained proposals, unveiled texts which, probably, I hope, will be reconsidered and corrected, such as that representatives of the Ministry of Tourism and representatives of industry organisations, hotels and restaurants should enter into the Expert Committee for the categorization of tourist sites with an equal number of votes, but this is subject to change. The next thing I will focus your attention on is what the colleagues who have spoken before me have analysed in detail, the text which transfers the so-called product zoning for carrying out tourist activities is quite rightly defined by a regulation of the municipal council. Unacceptable! National property, especially national resorts, the regulation for their zoning and the conditions for carrying out the activity to be carried out by municipal councils. What will happen is I can tell you from now on, as I am also from an area where there is a developed tourism? one of the biggest resorts is there, perhaps the biggest? I can tell you that it will come to, as there is a fairy tale folk fight:? There will be no information, the municipal councils will decide which part of the resort to be a noisy zone and a quiet area and ask what will happen to this hotel owner who has intended his hotel, for example for a family holiday, and falls into a noisy zone? [[Heckling]] A struggle will begin, as Churchill used to say, on bulldogs under the carpet, to redirect the areas to those tourist sites, which benefit them from doing so and in any case will have affected interests. This will cause, again, a war of hotels, tour operators and the participants in the tourist process. With this, the state does not contribute in any way to the development of tourism, believe me. People owners, investors, have built their establishments, their hotels, accommodations. You point them at a certain category and now, with the existing infrastructure, distribution near the sea or the tracks and so on, making a new distribution is just insane in my opinion. I don't know who needs this. Naturally, I don't mind this text staying, but for the new resorts that are yet to be built, because when Sunny Beach is built, when St. Constantine and Elena are built, when Golden Sands are built and so on, they are designed and built as monolithic complexes, they are not created for different purposes of the individual areas and areas in them. I also rely on other texts that are related, for example, to ski schools, to their upliftment in one category, almost to an element of general education and to the Ministry of Education and Science, which should hardly be transferred, unlike other sports, I think this can be corrected and must be corrected. But in conclusion, it puzzles me, for example, in § 38, Article 38. 129, para. 1 where the following obligations have been included in the Ministry of Tourism's powers, note:.. number, date, authority to issue a permit for use or document for placing in service of an object, where required, under the Law on Construction in the Area or Number, date issued, authorisation for use of a surface water object and certificates of fitness of food or entertainment establishments located on pontons and other anchored near the coast of vessels................................................................................................................................................................................................................. There is no place for such texts to be left, because they again further introduce the right to incompetent, with regard to water management, officials to determine the right to categorization........................................................................................ These are the reasons, and especially the disagreement with the philosophy of the proposed law, because of which the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs" will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? I can't see. Next is Mrs. Dora Yankova's statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u45	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! I am looking extremely seriously at the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Tourism, as I made a reference. From January to August this year according to BNB data from international tourism around 2 billion. 800 million. EUR were in turnover in Bulgaria, that is, it is one of the sectors that is alive and which we as members of parliament need to give an opportunity to support. The destination of Bulgaria is whether national, local or other resorts or zones can be stimulated and developed. I expected from the Minister of Tourism a bolder approach in terms of national resort policy, and I will say why. As I realize that for me personally the Decree of the Council of Ministers of 2005, according to which there are eight national resorts in the country, which are local entities and which under the Law of the Administrative and territorial structure of Bulgaria have such status and are proceeding in this way. And what worries me in the new section, which is proposed by the Minister or the Prime Minister, as the Law has been tabled by him. Here we are declared that there will be a number of national resorts. It is declared that they will be announced by a decision of the Council of Ministers. It's been like this ever since. Further, the Minister of Tourism and the Minister of Health will write a regulation for national resorts. And right is Valeri Simeonov, who says that many institutions are excluded here. Colleagues, the chief architects, and now they're working on the territory of the national resorts. When the boom was, the government of Saxe-Coburg took this activity into the Ministry of Regional Development and any chief architect authorized by the National Expert Council at MRDPB, proceeding on the territory of the national resorts. Even the development plans of the national resorts go through a discussion in the municipal councils, but they are necessarily sanctioned by the National Expert Council at MRRB. And I have the great concern, I don't want to suspect a war between ministries, but I can't figure out how it's going to be from now on. Will this status remain, why should only the two ministers be the Minister of Regional Development? I accidentally made a reply from colleague Petrov from Burgas because with the next decision of the Council of Ministers of 2012, signed by Deputy Prime Minister Dyankov and Rosen Zhelyazkov, there is a determination of resorts of national importance, as I shared, mountain climate And my concern is how they will develop, how the device will be and how the national resorts will function. Their device must be ZUT yes, although they are very different. I closely follow the minister's statements, soon gave a similar interview that the status of Albena, Golden Sands, Pamporovo, Borovets, Sunny Beach is different. But if ministers are going to announce resorts of national importance, my expectation was to form and define the state's policy towards these national resorts. What will be the policy regarding the modernisation of national resorts, because the infrastructure there is very difficult and very expensive? We say: the municipalities make plans and with the tourism fee something to do there. It is necessary, Madam Minister, perhaps between first and second readings and we will make a bold proposal. We'll propose an interinstitutional government council for national resorts. Money is needed in order for them to become even better, there is a need for a policy related to the functioning infrastructure power. You remember, last winter, the blocking of Pamporovo due to the lack of electricity and the elementary braking of the water due to the lack of water supply of Mugla. We need a policy -- a comprehensive, complex one. Public state infrastructure policies are necessary, the state to put money into the budget and build and develop, because, however rich the municipalities are, whatever the municipalities are, they can't do that. That's the alarm! I was expecting a bigger step here. And in this budget we have no money for infrastructure policy for national resorts, let alone for the development of new tourist destinations, and this bill does not have this bold step. I don't understand why you're only shrinking at your Ministry? On the contrary, you must open the interests of the other ministries as well as the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Health in relation to the national resorts. I was very embarrassed by something that my colleagues said as a great joy that when you will be on the territory of the national resort, you will receive an administrative service under this law within time limits, shorter by one second of the planned. Can anyone explain what that is? That is, we want to provoke the young to live, we want to develop Bulgaria as a tourist destination, the national resorts are almost institutionalized and built. And now instead of all of us saying that through this law we will create conditions for faster administrative service, perhaps certification and categorization, when it comes to the Ministry, we say: about national services. Here it is incomprehensible to me, perhaps the Minister will say: in time, shorter by one second of the intended. I mean, if it's for 14 days, in seven days it'll probably be national. That's the worry, because there's a national resort on the territory of my constituency, it's a big one. In terms of municipalities. I have no worries that municipalities in terms of product zoning will do anything, but it's none of their business. If we comply with the Law that these are local entities of national importance, the two ministers of tourism and regional development, with the two mayors, or with one mayor, must define these areas. The Minister should not be here to run away from this responsibility, and that should be clear as politics. Colleagues are right that mayors can't get involved in national resorts in this way, except to make two orders to stop construction in terms of winter and summer time. The second question you direct through this law. You see, during the Municipality Development Plan there is a program "Tourism" yes, there is always a section "Tourism" and most of the money from the tourist fee to go almost for the national resorts. That's a little money, guys! There are places where there are many where they do not gather, but here I expected, if it is a settlement entity of national importance and hence collect the tourist fee, then there should be a board to stimulate this money to be collected and accordingly there to be invested. But on the territory of a municipality these money goes, they are few, to make information centers and to cause new localizations. Two more questions that I would like to raise regarding the issues that have been developed in the Bill. I have read carefully the great public discussion that has been applied to the Bill. We're not gonna solve the ski zone issues and the ski slopes with this bill. It takes a bolder step. With the restoration of land and forests, with regard to ski slopes, we need a much bolder statesman's track, and another question regarding ski schools. Finally, I would like to address the President of Parliament. Madam President, if you look at this bill and the other bills, I would like to tell you that this is a mix of regulations and regulations. If we look at laws, let them be regulation of public relations, and let the ministers make their regulations and regulations separately. Try to find a way to have a conversation with the Council of Ministers, not to be offered to us in part of the Law mix of regulations and regulations. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Kirchev's speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u47	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! I would like to take into account a problem that can be seen as a disadvantage in the current Tourism Act. And this is the active role of advisory councils on tourism towards municipalities in defining policies in the sector at local level. The proposed changes to the current bill strengthen the role of consultative councils on tourism. Additional opportunities are introduced to discuss and approve the draft municipal tourism development programme, including the report on the implementation of the programme for the previous year. There is an opportunity to make proposals to the mayor of the municipality and opinions on issues related to the development of tourism in the territory of the municipality. It also creates an opportunity for representatives of local authorities and community to be actively involved in the implementation of national tourism development and promotion policy and to create better conditions; an opportunity for consultative councils to prepare proposals and opinions on the amount of tourism tax and its spending; the municipality's membership in tourism management organisations; the priority separation and resolution of issues related to the construction and maintenance of tourist infrastructure in the territory of the municipality, and the acquisition of investments in tourism; the improvement of the state of transport services; the conservation, maintenance and development of green areas in the territory of the municipality related to tourism; as well as the personnel provision in the development of tourism in the territory of the municipality and the need for training. It is important to note that when there is a national resort on the territory of the municipality, the relevant consultative council may be committed to exploring, discussing and making proposals to the municipal council to take the necessary measures for sustainable development of national resorts as a tourist destination. In this regard, I think these changes are extremely useful and we need to support the Law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u48	Thank you, Mr. Kirchev. - What's the line? Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u49	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, I would like to thank everyone for the comments made, the proposals made, as well as criticism in relation to some of the texts in the amended Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act. I would like to remind you that for more than three years this bill has been discussed in the section on the status of national resorts, which is also the main part of this LID. I understand your remarks, but let me remind you that the Ministry of Tourism itself was created on 7 November 2014. It is precisely as a focus and prioritization of the tourism industry as one of the main and key for the Bulgarian economy that this ministry should focus on the main activities related to tourism. No doubt the national resorts are the face of Bulgarian tourism and within this long public consultation, and within all the co-ordination procedures with all the other departments, these proposals have been reached because it is extremely important to have clear legal status as a national resort and what are the rights and obligations related to both its appearance and infrastructure and advertising and the offering of specific tourist products, in general all elements of the activities of the national resorts. I don't accept that the Ministry of Tourism has no way of responding. The Ministry of Tourism was therefore created so that it could be a major engine in the sector of Tourism. Are you telling me that the Ministry, or any other ministry, sits down and writes its regulations without any public consultation without agreeing with the ministers colleagues without agreeing with the travel organizations?! I'm sorry, but this is total manipulation. You are all very well aware of how a legal and regulatory act is drawn up. Absolutely all the props of both public discussion and co-ordination with fellow ministers, who, within this coordination, make proposals, comment accordingly, give proposals for both adoption of texts and rejection of specific texts which somehow relate to their specific sectoral powers. From this point of view, I believe that this order is extremely clear and shows who is responsible. How do you imagine four, five, six or ten ministries to develop one regulation?! When will this happen, and what texts will appear and who will finally be responsible?! Yes, the portfolio minister, when there is already such a portfolio ministry, because all the decrees that you quoted about national resorts were adopted at a time when the Ministry of Tourism did not exist. It is normal, especially when the sector needs to have clear rules on the status of national resorts. I agree that on some of the proposals, such as product zoning, it is necessary to specify between first and second reading the text, of course, and with others you propose, so that the texts we adopt can be worked. I am sure that within the deadline that you will define, a working group will be established and all concrete proposals will be cleared for this, but in the end it is extremely key both for the sector and for the Bulgarian economy to have the status of national resorts. On the one hand, I have heard arguments as to why the Law almost resembles texts about rules and regulations, on the other hand, why do you make this law when you will then make regulations? Look, the goal is to create a maximum balanced legislative base to create the framework. This is in no way related to aggravating the situation, but to creating clear rules, clear rights and obligations for national resorts, which are the image of Bulgarian tourism. To recall, the Ministry of Tourism was the first to introduce electronic services 24/7 for all those offered under the Tourism Act. We continue with this bill to reduce and alleviate the administrative burden for citizens and businesses. In his previous amendment, 19 documents have been dropped, and we are currently continuing to shorten the deadlines. I cannot accept, without any arguments, but only with winged phrases and suggestions that this was creating a corrupt environment, that this was a lack of capacity and so on. It is very easy to speak this way, but let us remember the facts and figures. Since the creation of the Ministry of Tourism, there has been a 31% increase in international tourists who have visited our country. And this year, despite all the challenges in the sector, we currently have over 7 million in the first nine months. $800,000. foreign tourists. Since the creation of the Ministry of Tourism, there has been a 34% increase in revenues from international tourism. All these facts and the fact that Bulgaria is clearly positioned on the tourist stage shows that yes, perhaps not with the speed and steps that we all want, but things are happening. I really count on you, within the framework of first and second reading, the proposals you make to clear them so that we can find the balance in the sector both in terms of product zoning and in terms of ski teachers, ski runs, ski schools, so that there can be a working sector. I believe that everyone in this hall wants Bulgaria to be a preferred year-round tourist destination with a quality tourist product. Thank you for all the constructive proposals made and, I repeat for the third time, within the framework of first and second reading what you propose will be cleared and you can count on both my cooperation and all experts from the Ministry of Tourism. Thank you all for your support and attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u50	Thank you, dear Minister. [[National Representative Dora Yankova wants the floor.]] Mrs. Yankova, you are not entitled to a line or a statement. Procedure in the manner of conduct...............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u51	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to address you. The MPs know very well who the Minister of Tourism is. In parallel, it is appropriate for you, when making such statements, to make an adjustment. Yes, the Minister of Tourism runs such a ministry, but there is another minister with regard to the Law on Construction in the territory who manages the construction and thus the property is regulated by another law. So the suggestion that they tried to give us just now... There are conscious members of parliament here who know their place. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u52	Thank you. You're welcome, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u53	Dear Mr. Hristov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! To you, Mr. Hristov, is my procedure in the manner of conduct. You closed the debate and then gave the floor to the Minister of Tourism. After the Minister of Tourism spoke, you practically do not allow the Members of the National Assembly to react to the words spoken by the Parliamentary Tribune, provided that the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly do not exhaust the time of the individual parliamentary groups. Please, Mr. President, don't impose censorship on us to close the debate and then give the floor to a minister present, whoever he is, and there's no possibility that he can be caught in lie, manipulation or untruths. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u54	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. I think you're having a little trouble clapping, fellow Members. I will refrain from replying, I will only recommend to Mr. Iankov once again to see the procedures in the Rules of Procedure. There is no violation and are in line with the good parliamentary practice currently established. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, No 902-01-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 185 MPs: 104 against 13, abstention 68. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u55	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Madame Minister! I am making a procedure for the period between the first and second readings for the bill so adopted to be the maximum of 21 days. There were many suggestions, there were comments so that there was enough time between first and second readings to be considered more thoroughly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u56	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 174 MPs: 168 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: SECOND VOICE OF LAWPROECTION FOR MARKS AND GEOGRAPHIC Here you are, Mrs. Shevked, you have the floor for the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u57	Proposal of the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Dimitar Danchev and Stanislav Vladimirov: Article 2 is created. 117a: "Protection against unlawful registration of a trade mark in infringement proceedings Art. 117a (1) Within the time limit for replying to the application, the defendant may bring a counterclaim requesting the deletion of the registration of the trade mark subject to the main action where the registration is carried out in breach of the requirements of art. Art. 2, Art. Art. 11 or art. 12, or the use of the mark may be prohibited on the grounds of earlier law under art. 36, para. 3, p. 2. (2) At the request of the defendant, the court shall inform the Patent Office of the action brought by sending him a copy of the application with all subsequent clarifications on its subject matter. An entry in the State Register of Trade Marks shall be made for the proceedings brought under the counterclaim, which shall contain details of the applicant for the counterclaim, the case number and the court before which the action is brought and the grounds for deletion which shall be claimed and published in the Official Bulletin of the Patent Office. (3) Where the registration of the trade mark subject to the main claim is carried out in violation of the requirements of art. Art. 2, Art. Art. 11 or art. 12, or the use of the mark may be prohibited on the grounds of earlier law under art. 36, para. 3, p. 2, the court shall, by its decision, delete the registration while rejecting the application for infringement. (4) At the request of each of the parties to the case or of its own motion, the Court of First Instance shall send to the Patent Office a certified copy of the decision in force to delete the mark or to reject the application for its deletion, which shall be entered in the State Register of Trade Marks. A certificate shall be issued for the entry made to each of the Parties and published in the Official Bulletin of the Patent Office. The Commission does not support the proposal. The proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev has been made.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u58	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the Commission of the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Dimitar Danchev and Stanislav Vladimirov. They voted 102 MPs: 32, against 25, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u59	"Determining the compensation" art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 118. ? Specific cases of The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 119. "Resining of items.. subject to The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 120. "Wearing of responsibility" art. 121 (one hundred and twenty-one). The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 121. "Providing evidence in claims and security proceedings " art. OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 122.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u60	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for Articles 118, 119, 120, 121 and 122, supported by the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: 77, none, abstention 24. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u61	"Request of information on origin and distribution networks in case of infringement............................................................................................. 123............................................................................... The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 123: "Requirement of origin information and the distribution networks in the event of an infringement Art. 123. (1) The court may, at the request of the applicant, oblige the defendant or a third party to provide information on circumstances relevant to the case. (2) Third person within the meaning of para. 1 is any person who: 1. holding goods or goods.. subject to infringement, or 2. provide services leading to infringement, or 3. use services that constitute a breach, or 4. is indicated by the person under point 4. 1 "3" as a participant in the production, production or distribution of these goods or services. (3) The data under para. 1 may include: 1. the names and addresses of the manufacturers, distributors, suppliers and other persons previously holding the goods, goods subject to the infringement or services, as well as of the alleged wholesalers and retailers and retailers for which they were intended; 2. details of the quantities produced, delivered, received or ordered, as well as of the revenues received from the goods, goods or services covered by the infringement in question. (4) Paragraph 1 shall not apply where its execution may lead to a breach of a provision of another law. (5) Paragraphs 1 and 3 shall apply only to actions carried out for direct or indirect economic or commercial benefit. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 124 as in para. 1 t. 2 is amended as follows: "2." seizure of the property subject to the infringement which is alleged to have unlawfully infringed the right to a trade mark or geographical indication and of other evidence relevant for proving the infringement; Mr. President, the words "not necessarily carried" are deleted, as this is a technical correction.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u62	It's an editorial amendment. I'll put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u63	supposed to be indicted in a court of law, the Court of Justice of the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 125.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u64	Statements? I can't see. I will put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 123, and the text of the importer for art. 124 with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission in para. 1, t. 2, and the text of the importer for art. 125. They voted 103 MPs: for 81, against none, abstention 22. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u65	"Department II "Secrets for protection by the customs authorities." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 126, such as: "1." In para. 1 the text after the words "Regulation (EU) No 60' is deleted; 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: In implementing the measures, the customs authorities shall charge fees to cover the costs of the storage of the goods at the amount set by the Council of Ministers under art. 12 of the Law on the Services. Section III "Administrative Penal Provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III. "Administrative violations and penalties." The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 127: "Administrative infringements and penalties" Art. 127. (1) Person used in the business within the meaning of art. 13, para. 1 and 2 goods or services marked with a sign identical to or similar to a registered mark without the consent of its owner shall be punished with a fine from 2000 to 10 000 BGN and the sole traders and the legal persons with a penalty of 3000 to 20 000 BGN. (2) The punishments under para. 1 shall also be imposed on a person who, without the consent of the proprietor of a registered trade mark: 1. place a mark identical or similar to the mark on packaging, labels, markings, elements or devices for protection or authenticity, or on any other means and materials; 2. offer for sale, place on the market, store or hold for these purposes, import, export packaging, labels, markings, elements or devices for protection or authenticity, or on any other means and materials on which the mark is placed in order to use these packaging, labels, markings, elements or devices for protection or authenticity, or any other means or materials for goods or services in the commercial activity within the meaning of art. 13, para. 1 and 2. (3) The punishments under para. 1 shall also be imposed on a person who: 1. enter into the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria goods under art. 13, para. 3 without the consent of the proprietor of the registered trade mark; 2. use an indication which does not differ substantially from a registered geographical indication; 3. use a geographical indication registered under this law without being entered as its user. (4) In case of repeated and any subsequent infringement under para. One year after the entry into force of the previous criminal decree, the person is subject to a fine of 3000 to 15 000 BGN and the sole traders and the legal persons are subject to a penalty of 5000 to 30 000 BGN. (5) The subject of the infringement under para. 1.. 4 regardless of whose ownership it is, is taken away for the benefit of the State and transferred for the destruction of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, and the proprietor of the mark or person authorised by it may be present at the disposal of the destruction. (6) When the sign under para. 1 is used to offer or provide services, the intruder is indicated to remove it. (7) In case of systemic breaches, the place where they are carried out shall be sealed for a period of three to 6 months. (8) The preceding paragraphs shall also apply to goods transiting through the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (9) Alinei 1 s 8 shall apply regardless of whether there is any of the circumstances under art. 37. ...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u66	Are there any speeches, colleagues? I won't. I shall put the following texts to the vote: the text of the importer on the name of Section II; the text of the importer as art. 126 with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission; the text of the importer on the name of Section III; and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 127. They voted 108 MPs: 84, none, abstention 24. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u67	? Check for infringements??? art. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 128: ? Checking for infringements Art. 128. (1) Verification for the identification of infringements under art. 127 is carried out by: 1. initiative of the Patent Office; 2. a request by a prosecutor or the authorities of the Ministry of Interior; 3. a signal of the proprietor of the right on a trade mark or of the registered user of a registered geographical indication; 4. a signal of the co-owner of the right to a trade mark without the consent of the other co-owners; 5. signal of the licensee of an exclusive licence; 6. a signal of the licensee of an exclusive licence with the consent of the holder, unless otherwise provided for in the contract; 7. a signal of a person who is entitled to use a collective mark with the consent of its owner. (2) The alert for verification shall contain: 1. identification of the person who has given it a name, address for correspondence, fax and e-mail address, if available; 2. identification of the mark or geographical indication, the rights claimed to have been infringed; 3. identification of the proprietor of the trade mark or the user of the geographical indication; 4. identification of the alleged intruder; 5. exact address and type of the object where the alleged infringement takes place. (3) The verification signal shall be attached: 1. a power of attorney where the alert has been issued through an industrial property representative; 2. evidence establishing the circumstances for the persons under para. 1, t. 7. (4) A check shall not be carried out when the signal does not meet the requirements of para. 2 and 3 and after given instructions irregularities have not been removed. (5) After a ruling on the administrative criminal case file, the punishing authority shall inform the persons under para. 1, t. 2 "7" for the results of the verification carried out. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair of buildings, buildings and parts of buildings. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 129, as in para. 1 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'. The Office of the Officer shall be responsible for the performance of its duties. Proposal of the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Dimitar Danchev and Stanislav Vladimirov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle and it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 128. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle and it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 128. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 130: The powers of the official shall be exercised in accordance with the laws of the Member States Art. 130. (1) The official of art. 129 shall be entitled to: 1. requires access to the controlled objects; 2. require the necessary documents in relation to the checks carried out and to take samples for expert evaluation; 3. draw photos from the controlled objects. (2) The official shall: 1. shall accurately and fully reflect the facts of the verification carried out in the infringement act; 2. protects the professional, production and trade secret which became known to him in relation to the checks carried out; 3. shall not disclose data from the checks, except in the cases referred to in Article 3. 128, para. 5; 4. use the information from the checks only for the purpose of the infringement proceedings. ??? 131??????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 131.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u68	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 128; the text of the importer for art. 129 with the Commission's proposals in para. 1 texts for replacement; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 130 by importer; and the text of the importer for art. 131 by importer. They voted 109 MPs: 88, none, abstention 21. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u69	"Contribution for The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 132, as in c. 3 the word "goods' is replaced by "goods'. Proposal of the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Dimitar Danchev and Stanislav Vladimirov. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 128. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 128. "Enforcement of administrative penalties" art. 133. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 133, as in para. 2 words may be appealed. The appeal shall be replaced by the appeal. "Execution of administrative penalties" art. 134............................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 134. as in para. 3 the words "the goods" shall be replaced by the words "the goods." Application of the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments "Art. 135. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 135.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u70	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: text of the importer for art. 132 with the proposed text for replacement by the Commission; text of the importer for art. 133 with the proposed replacement text made by the Commission; text of the importer for art. 134 with the proposed replacement text made by the Commission; and the text of the importer for art. 135, supported by the Commission. They voted 112 MPs: 87, none against, 25 abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u71	"Additional provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... For the 1. The documents created by the President, Vice-Presidents or by an official of the Patent Office administration in the course of proceedings under this law, as well as documents of the Office and/or the Administration relating to the operational activity, such as orders, opinions, reports, report notes, etc. 2. He is a person registered in the Register of Industrial Property Representatives of the Patent Office or a person entitled to carry out the same activity in another Member State of the European Union. 3. "Representation of the brand' is its form of lensing which allows the use of publicly available technology to be reproduced in a clear, accurate, autonomous, easily accessible, understandable, sustainable and tangible way. 4. It is a trademark within the meaning of art. Six, two from the Paris Convention. 5. The official or officially recognized exhibition is an exhibition within the meaning of the Convention of 22 November 1928 on International Exhibitions organised in the Member States of the Paris Convention, with its amendments and additions. 6. "Import or export of goods' means the transport of goods bearing a mark identical to or similar to a registered mark or registered geographical indication, or imitation thereof, whether or not customs procedure has been activated in respect of such goods. 7. An agent or agent shall be a person acting or having to act in the interest of the actual proprietor of a trade mark on the basis of a legal or factual link with him with regard to the goods or services of the trade mark. 8. The State's expert is an expert within the meaning of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the 9. For the purposes of art. 12, para. 7 does not include the type of trader. The Commission shall support the text of the importer of § 2 and shall replace the word "Member States' by the "States' of the "Parties' of the "Parties' Agreement. The Commission shall support the text of the importer of § 3 and shall replace the word "orders' with the "reports'.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u72	Statements, coworkers? I won't. Before putting the texts to the vote, I shall clear the text of an editorial amendment. 4, § 1: "General known trade mark" is a trade mark within the meaning of art. 6, second of the Paris Convention. Is there anything back there? [[Reply: "This is how it should be written down. "]] Is that how it's supposed to be? [[Reply.]] Okay, I get it. So the text is consistent with the presentation. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 1; the text of the importer supported by the Commission for § 2 with proposals for replacement by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 3, with the text proposed for replacement by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 82, none, abstention 24. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u73	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Proposal of the National Representative Rumen Georgiev: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 4: 1. In para. 1 and 2 at the end after the word "request" is added to the Patent Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, other than the cases provided for in Chapter 4 and Chapter 5 of this Law. 2. In para. A sentence 2 is created: "The registrations which are related to the initiation or completion of a procedure under Chapter 4 or Chapter 5 of this Law shall not be terminated.' 3. In para. 4 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) the Patent Office of the Republic of Bulgaria shall be added after the word. (b) The second sentence shall be created: the proceedings relating to the initiation or completion of a procedure under Chapter 4 or Chapter 5 of this Law shall not be terminated. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u74	Statements? Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal that the Paragraph 4 texts be discussed and voted separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u76	Each of the texts under § 4? We haven't reached § 4, he hasn't been introduced. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I will put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division. Vote 94 MPs: 78, none, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on the proposal of MP Rumen Georgiev, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 97 MPs: 26, against 5, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. I would ask that, after reading the text, Dear Mr. Sabanov, you present your proposal. And now for a message. Dear colleagues, an exhibition will be opened at the Club of the National Representative, which is dedicated to the 100th anniversary of the New Year's Treaty. The author of the exhibition is Dimitar Shalapatov, who presents photos of the Bulgarian Christian temples in Belomore Trakia, which remained outside the homeland. All MPs are invited to the opening. Thirty minutes of interruption. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u77	Please continue with the presentation of the version of § 4, Mrs. Shevked.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u78	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 5: ............................................ (1) This law shall apply to applications for registration of trade marks and geographical indications for which no decision has entered into force until its entry into force. (2) This law shall apply to requests for revocation and deletion of registration of trade marks and geographical indications for which no decision has entered into force until its entry into force. (3) The registrations of geographical indications under the repealed Law on trade marks and geographical indications for spirit drinks falling within the scope of Regulation (EC) No 110/2008 for products under art. Paragraph 1 of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 and for flavoured wine products falling within the scope of Regulation (EU) No 251/2014 shall be terminated as from the date of entry into force of that law. (4) Applications for registration of a geographical indication for spirit drinks falling within the scope of Regulation (EC) No 110/2008 for products under art. Paragraph 1 of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 and for flavoured wine products falling within the scope of Regulation (EU) No 251/2014 or applications for the entry of a user of such a geographical indication on which no decision has entered into force until the entry into force of that law shall be terminated. (5) The proceedings concerning infringements of rights of registered geographical indications for agricultural products and foodstuffs falling within the scope of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 in respect of which no decision entered into force until the entry into force of that law shall be terminated. (6) A holder of rights of registered geographical indications for agricultural products and foodstuffs falling within the scope of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 shall not bring an infringement action pending the entry into force of that law. (7) No administrative criminal proceedings shall be formed and the proceedings shall be terminated for infringements of rights of registered geographical indications for agricultural products and foodstuffs falling within the scope of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 carried out until the entry into force of that law. (8) Within three days of the entry into force of this law, the Patent Office shall notify the International Bureau of the termination of national registrations of geographical indications on the basis of which international registrations have been made. (9) Up to 6 months after the entry into force of this law, all circumstances subject to entry into the State Registers of Marks and Geographical Indications shall also be published in the Official Bulletin of the Patent Office.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u79	Thank you. Statements? Now you have the floor, Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal that the texts referred to in this paragraph be discussed and voted separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u81	That's nine paragraphs. Could we group or hold nine paragraphs one by one?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, and I've made a proposal to drop the fifth and sixth, so by the fifth and sixth we have no problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u83	We will vote on the paragraph by paragraph the texts of § 4. Are there any other statements? I will now put the procedural proposal to the vote. 110 MPs voted: 99, against 1, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. I shall put the text of para to the vote. 1 of § 4 of the proposed version by the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 99, none, abstentioned 16. The motion is accepted. I'm putting it to the vote now. 2 of the proposed version of § 4 in the version of the Commission. They voted 121 MPs: 98 against 2, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. I shall put the text of para to the vote. 3 of § 4 according to the proposed version. They voted 121 MPs: 96, against 5, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on the text of para. 4 of § 4. Vote 116 MPs: 95 against 5, abstention 16. The offer is accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposed text for para. 5. They voted 118 MPs: 19 against 27, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the proposed text for para. 6. They voted 120 MPs: for 6, against 24, abstention 90. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposed text for para. 7. They voted 114 MPs: 96, against 7, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposed text for para. 8. Vote 113 MPs: 98 against 7, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. I shall put the text of para to the vote. 9. They voted 121 MPs: 98 against 8, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Please continue with the presentation of the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u84	.................................................................................. The Law on Trade Marks and Trade Marks (prom., SG No. ...)... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 4. ........................................................... In the Law on Patents and Registration of Useful Models (prom., SG...)... The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In the Law on Patents and Registration of Useful Models (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 1 sentence first, the word "local' is deleted; 2. Article 1 is inserted in Chapter 1. 5b: supplier Art. 5b. (1) The Patent Office shall maintain for each invention, useful model and certificate of additional protection a file on paper and electronic media, which shall include all documentation on the issue of the security document and subsequent entries. In the case of art. Art. 67, Art. Art. 72a, Art. 72b, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 72 in the file shall include all documentation relating to the actions provided for in this law. (2) The applicant, the owner, the industrial property representative, the legal counsel from the administration of the applicant or the holder and a lawyer authorised in writing by the applicant or holder shall have the right of access to the file of the invention, the useful model and the certificate of supplementary protection. Access to the file shall also be granted to a person who is expressly authorised by a notary certified power of attorney by the applicant or holder. (3) The parties involved in the proceedings shall have the right of access to the administrative file in dispute proceedings, the representatives of the industrial property, the legal counsel from the administration of the applicant, the holder or the applicant, a lawyer authorised in writing by the applicant, the holder or the applicant, and a person expressly authorised by them by a notary certified power of attorney. (4) Each person shall have the right to information on the data contained in the invention file, utility model and supplementary protection certificate to be entered. (5) After the publication under art. 51 each person has the right to have access to the patent application as submitted. (6) After the publication under art. 77, para. 1 each person has the right to have access to the application for registration of the useful model as filed and on the report under art. 75e, para. 3. (7) Third parties, in respect of which circumstances are entered under the law, shall only be entitled to access the documentation on the basis of which the entry was made. (8) The right of access to a file shall include the right of persons authorised under this law to be acquainted with and to receive copies of all materials and documents which are kept in the relevant file, with the exception of internal documents within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 1 of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications. (9) The order to grant access to the files and to obtain references or extracts from the registers shall be determined by instruction of the President of the Patent Office. 3. Articles 51a and 77a shall be repealed. 4. The name of Chapter 8 is amended as follows: 5. Article 83a is amended as follows: "Acceptances and scope Art. 83a. (1) The customs authorities shall apply measures to goods under customs supervision or customs controls which are presumed to be in breach of a patent, certificate of additional protection or registered useful model, under the conditions and procedures of Regulation (EU) No 608/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 June 2013 on the protection of intellectual property rights carried out by the customs authorities and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1383/2003 (OJ L 181, 15 of 29 June 2013.). (2) Paragraph 1 shall also apply to goods, whether or not they are subject to a customs procedure which has been opened as a result of an inspection carried out by the customs authorities in the exercise of their powers in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (3) In the implementation of the measures, the customs authorities shall collect fees to cover the costs of the storage of the goods in amounts fixed by the Council of Ministers in accordance with art. 12 of the Law on the Services. 6. Article 83b is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u85	Thank you. I'll interrupt for a moment, dear Mrs. Shevked. Colleagues, one message. Guests of parliament today are members of the Senate's foreign policy committees and the Chamber of Deputies of Romania and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. They are in Bulgaria to participate in a trilateral meeting of the MPs from the parliamentary committees on foreign policy of Bulgaria, Romania and Turkey at the invitation of the President of the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Policy Gemma Grozdanova. Please welcome them. Welcome. [[(Everyone's up. (Applause)]] Please continue with the performance of § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u86	Paragraph 7. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In the Industrial Design Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 all over the word "local" is deleted. 2. Article 7 is amended as follows: supplier Art. 7. (1) The Patent Office shall maintain for each industrial design a paper and electronic file, which shall include all documentation of registration and subsequent entries. In cases referred to in art. 50 "53 files" shall include all documentation relating to the actions provided for in this law. (2) Right of access to the industrial design file shall have the applicant, the owner, their industrial property representative, a legal counsel from the applicant's administration or owner, and a lawyer authorised in writing by the applicant or holder. Access to the file shall also be granted to a person who is expressly authorised by a notary certified power of attorney by the applicant or holder. (3) The parties involved in the proceedings shall have the right of access to the administrative file in dispute proceedings, their representatives of industrial property, legal counsel from the administration of the applicant, the owner of the industrial design or the applicant, a lawyer authorised in writing by the applicant, the owner of the industrial design or the applicant, and a person expressly authorised by them by a notary certified power of attorney. (4) Any person shall be entitled to information on the data contained in the industrial design file which is subject to entry. (5) Third parties, in respect of which circumstances are entered under the law, shall only be entitled to access the documentation on the basis of which the entry was made. (6) The right of access to a file shall include the right of persons authorised under this law to be acquainted with and to receive copies of all materials and documents which are kept in the relevant file, except for the internal documents within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 1 of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications. (7) The order for granting access to the files and for obtaining references or extracts from the State Register of Industrial Designs shall be determined by instruction of the President of the Patent Office. 3. The name of Chapter 6 is amended as follows: 4. Article 62 is amended as follows: "Administrative Field" Art. 62. (1) The customs authorities shall apply measures to goods under customs supervision or customs controls suspected of violating an industrial design right under the conditions and procedures of Regulation (EU) No 608/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 June 2013 on the protection of intellectual property rights carried out by the customs authorities and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1383/2003 (OJ L 181, 15 of 29 June 2013.). (2) The protection measures shall apply to all goods presented to the customs authorities, whether placed under a customs procedure, including goods moved under the transit procedure. (3) Paragraph 1 shall also apply to goods, whether or not they are subject to a customs procedure which has been opened as a result of an inspection carried out by the customs authorities in the exercise of their powers in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (4) In the implementation of the measures, the customs authorities shall charge fees to cover the costs of the storage of the goods at the amount fixed by the Council of Ministers under the procedure of art. 12 of the Law on the Services. 5. Articles 63, 63a, 64 and 64a are repealed. 6. Article 66 (2) shall be repealed. 7. In § 1 of the Additional Provisions: (a) c. 4 the word "local' shall be deleted and the words "the patents' shall be replaced by "the patents' and the registration of utility models'; (b) c. 5 the words "Patrents' are replaced by "Patrents' and the registration of utility models'.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u87	Thank you. Statements? I won't. We are going to vote on the following texts: the text of the importer for § 5, which becomes § 4; the version proposed by the Commission for § 6; and the version proposed by the Commission for § 7. Excuse me, but aren't they renumbered? [[Reply: No, they're only exchanged.]] Just swapping places, okay. Please, voting mode. Vote 113 MPs: 95 against 1, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u88	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In the Law on the Protection of New Species of Plants and Breeding Animals (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. 1 the word "local' is deleted; 2. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 5a, 5b and 5c: "Register of certificates of new varieties of plants and breeds of animals Art. 5a. (1) The Patent Office shall maintain a Register of certificates for new varieties of plants and breeds of animals. (2) The register under para. 1 contains: 1. number and date of submission of the application; 2. number of the certificate issued; 3. AXON code; 4. number of the Official Bulletin of the Patent Office and date of publication of the application; 5. number of the Official Bulletin of the Patent Office and date of publication for the issued certificate; 6. name of the variety of plants/breed animals; 7. Latin name of the variety of plants/breeding animals; 8. name and address of the applicant; 9. the author's name; 10. beginning of operation of the certificate; 11. annual fees paid for the maintenance of the performance of the certificate, the date of payment and the year to which it relates; 12. current status of the certificate; 13. name and address of the representative of intellectual property where authorised. Access to the register Art. 5b. (1) The register referred to in art. 5a is electronic and public. It is published on the website of the Patent Office. (2) The Patent Office shall collect, organise, make public and store data subject to entry, including any personal data necessary for the purposes of maintaining the register and carrying out its activities under this law. (3) Any person may request a reference or extract from the contents of the register. File Art. 5c. (1) The Patent Office shall maintain for each new variety of plants and breed of animals a paper and electronic file, including all documentation on the issue of the protective document and subsequent entries. (2) Right of access to the files of the new varieties of plants and breeds of animals shall have the applicant, the owner, their representative for intellectual property, a legal advisor from the administration of the applicant or holder, and a lawyer authorised in writing by the applicant or holder. Access to the file shall also be granted to a person who is expressly authorised by a notary certified power of attorney by the applicant or holder. (3) The parties involved in the proceedings shall have the right of access to the administrative file in dispute proceedings, their representatives of intellectual property, their administration's legal counsel, a lawyer authorised in writing by the applicant, the holder or the applicant, and a person expressly authorised by a notary certified power of attorney by the applicant, the holder or the applicant. (4) After the publication under art. 41 each person has the right to have access to the application for a new variety of plants or a breed of animals as submitted. (5) Each person shall be entitled to information on the data contained in the dossier of the variety of plants or the breed of animals subject to entry. (6) Third parties, in respect of which circumstances are entered under the law, shall only be entitled to access the documentation on the basis of which the entry was made. (7) The right of access to a dossier of a new variety of plants or a breed of animals shall include the right of persons authorised under that law to be acquainted with and to receive copies of all materials and documents which are kept in the relevant dossier, with the exception of internal documents within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 1 of the additional provisions of the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications. (8) The order for granting access to the records of varieties of plants or breeds of animals and for receipt of references or extracts from the register shall be determined by instruction of the President of the Patent Office. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 9: ..................................................... In the Law on Topology of Integrated Circuits (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 all over the word "local" is deleted. 2. Article 6 is amended as follows: supplier Art. 6. (1) The Patent Office shall maintain for each topology a paper and electronic file, which shall include all documentation of registration and subsequent entries. (2) Right of access to the topology file shall have the applicant, the owner, their industrial property representative, a legal counsel from the administration of the applicant or the holder, and a lawyer authorised in writing by the applicant or holder. Access to the file shall also be granted to a person who is expressly authorised by a notary certified power of attorney by the applicant or holder. (3) After the publication under art. 29 each person shall be entitled to information on the data contained in the topology file to be entered. (4) Third parties, in respect of which circumstances are entered under the law, shall only be entitled to access the documentation on the basis of which the entry was made. (5) The Patent Office shall not grant third parties access to the material identifying topology or to parts thereof designated by its owner as commercial secrecy, except by order of the court, where those persons are parties to a trial for the deletion of registration or violation of exclusive right. (6) The right of access to a file shall include the right of persons authorised under this law to be acquainted with and to receive copies of all materials and documents stored in the relevant file, except those under para. 5 and internal documents within the meaning of § 1, point 1 of the additional provisions of the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications. (7) The order to grant access to the files and to obtain references or extracts from the register shall be determined by instruction of the President of the Patent Office. 3. In § 1 t. 3 of the additional provisions are amended as follows: "3." He is a representative within the meaning of art. 3 of the Law on Patents and Registration of Useful Models. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 10: ..................................................... In the Copyright and Related Rights Act (prom., SG No. 56...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Reg. 94c, para. 2 words.............................................................................. 95e, 95e, 96b and 96d 95e, 95e and 96b. 2. The name of Chapter 12 is amended as follows: 3. Article 96b is amended as follows: "Acceptances and scope Art. 96b. (1) The customs authorities shall apply measures to goods under customs supervision or customs controls suspected of breach of a law protected by that law, subject to the conditions and procedures of Regulation (EU) No 608/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 June 2013 on the protection of intellectual property rights carried out by the customs authorities and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1383/2003 (OJ L 181, 15 of 29 June 2013.). (2) Paragraph 1 shall also apply to goods, whether or not they are subject to a customs procedure which has been opened as a result of an inspection carried out by the customs authorities in the exercise of their powers in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (3) In the implementation of the measures, the customs authorities shall charge fees to cover the costs of the storage of the goods at the amount fixed by the Council of Ministers under the procedure of art. 12 of the Law on the Services. 4. Articles 96c, 96d and 96e shall be repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u89	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for § 8, the version proposed by the Commission of § 9, and the version proposed by the Commission for § 10 They voted 125 MPs: 95 against 1, abstention 29. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u90	The Commission proposes to set up new paragraphs 11 and 12: ..................................................... In the Civil Procedure Code (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 518a, para. 6 words................................................................................. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. § 12. In the Law on Transliteration (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 3, para. 3 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 1 to amend the Annex The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become §13: ...... 13............................ 13. The Council of Ministers shall, within 6 months of the entry into force of the law, adopt the regulations governing its application. Until their adoption, the regulations on the application of the repealed Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications shall apply, insofar as they do not conflict with the law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u91	Statements? I can't see. I put the following texts to the vote: the Commission's proposal to create two new paragraphs - 11 and 12, with a text according to the Commission Report; the version proposed by the Commission for § 11, which becomes § 13; and the text of the importer supported by the Commission for § 12, which becomes § 14. They voted 116 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 27. The proposals have been accepted. Thank you, Mrs. Shevked, for presenting the long texts. Colleagues, we continue with the next item of the work programme: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR OIL AND OIL PRODUCTS. Importer is the Council of Ministers. We begin with the Energy Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted to the House Mr. Stanimir Peev, Chairman of the State Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u93	I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission made in this House. They voted 103 MPs: 99, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Peev to the room. Please continue with the presentation of the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u94	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Oil and Oil Stocks Act, No 902-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2019. At its regular meeting on 21 November 2019, the Energy Commission discussed and voted on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Oil and Oil Stocks Act, No 902-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2019. The meeting was attended by the State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks: Mr. Stanimir Peev, Chairman, and Mrs. Koina Harbova, Head of the Legal and Normal Service Sector. Mr. Stanimir Peev, Chairman of the State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks, presented the reasons to the Draft Law for amending and supplementing the Oil and Oil Stocks Act. The proposed bill introduces in the Bulgarian legislation the provisions of Directive (EU) 2018/1581 of the European Commission of 19 October 2018 amending Council Directive 2009/119/EC on methods for calculating stock obligations. The proposed amendments and additions focus on updating the references to Regulation (EC) No 1099/2008 on energy statistics. It is essential to introduce a definition of the products in use, a new version of the definition of the definition of the gross domestic supply and a more detailed identification of the various petroleum products, which are included in calculating the obligation to maintain stocks and taking into account the implementation of the stocks already created. The amendment to Annex 1 to the Directive has also been adopted and the methods for calculating stock obligations are presented more clearly and the amount of net imports of primary components is reduced by the largest of the three corresponding quantities. The texts concerning the calculation of the stock levels under the Oil and Oil Stocks Act, which the debtors must create and maintain, are reviewed and refined. When calculating the average daily net imports and intra-Community arrivals, the types of energy products to be taken into account in calculating and determining stock levels are included, including all energy products. A change has been proposed in the period in which debtors must establish and maintain their individually defined levels of stocks as set out in the Amendment Directive; this change provides longer technological time for debtors to organise their obligations under the Oil and Oil Stocks Act. A more flexible change from stock type to other stock under the Law has been proposed, which is considered to create a more rational opportunity to fulfil obligations. In the subsequent discussion were the MPs Valentin Nikolov, Dimitar Boychev and Ramadan Atalay. The guests included representatives of the oil and gas association. In the course of the discussion, it was decided between the two votes of the draft to hold a working group with representatives of the importers of the bill, representatives of the interested associations and MPs of the Energy Commission, to specify the texts in the draft so as to create a mechanism working for all interested parties. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote, the Committee on Energy with 14 votes for the Council of Ministers, without votes, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Oil and Oil Stocks Act, No 902-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. The next report belongs to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Here you go, Mrs. Dimitrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Oil and Oil Stocks Act, No 902-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2019. At its regular meeting on 27 November 2019, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Oil and Oil Stocks Act. The draft, presented by Stanimir Peev, Chairman of the State-owned Reserve and War-time Stocks Agency, has been drawn up to introduce the requirements of Commission Implementing Directive (EU) 2018/1581 of 19 October 2018 amending Council Directive 2009/119/EC on methods for calculating stock obligations. It is envisaged that the calculated net imports and intra-Community arrivals, through the software product of the European Commission, will be presented to the State Reserve and Wartime Stocks Office by the National Statistical Institute. When calculating the average daily net imports and intra-Community arrivals, the types of energy products to be taken into account for the calculation and determination of stock levels are included, including all the energy products referred to in Chapter 3.4 of Annex A to Regulation (EC) No 1099/2008 and heavy fuels for the calculation by the method of net imports, subject to the requirements of the Directive. In order to provide technological time for debtors to fulfil their obligations under the Law, a change is proposed in the period during which they must create and maintain their individually defined levels of stocks. A more flexible change from stock to stock is given, aiming at greater rationality in fulfilling obligations. The additional provisions of the Bill update the references to Regulation (EC) No 1099/2008 on energy statistics and further define the various petroleum products to be included in the calculation of the stock maintenance obligation and taking into account the implementation of the stocks already created. The Association of Merchants and Bituminous Products argued that the implementation of the conservation obligation provided for by the Bill for any person importing or producing bitumen would lead to additional costing of the product and the construction of all national infrastructure sites, respectively. They also objected to the envisaged maintenance of stocks for the production and import quantities of bitumen produced and imported for 2019, which in practice means the entry into force of the Law with a back date and insisted on the exclusion of this product from the scope of the Law by making practical reference to it by a Member State of the European Union. The President of the State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks (Stanimir Peev) stated that since 2017, bitumen has been included as a product with an act of the European Union and added that by amending between the two votes of the Bill there will be proposed maintaining stocks of 100% of another type of petroleum product. In the course of the discussion the people representative Hristo Prodanov asked: "Is there a capacity for the storage of such quantities of stocks and how will this affect the price of bitumen? " National Representative Stoyan Mirchev asked: "Why, if the state does not have the opportunity to invest in the construction of warehouses, requires this from the debtors? " National Representative Dimitar Boychev asked a question: After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Oil and Oil Stocks Act, No 902-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Dimitrova. Report of the Commission for Monitoring Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling. You have the floor to present the report, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u98	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Oil and Oil Stocks Act, No 902-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2019. At its regular meeting held on 14 November 2019, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Fight against the Grey Economy and Smuggling discussed the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Oil and Oil Stocks Act, No 902-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2019. The meeting was attended by the State Agency "State Reserves and Wartime Stocks" and Mrs. Stanimir Peev, Chairman, and Mrs. Koina Harbova, Head of the Legal and Normal Service Sector. The bill was presented by Mr. Peev. He briefed the Members of the National Assembly on the draft legislation which transposed the requirements of Commission Implementing Directive (EU) 2018/1581 of 19 October 2018 amending Council Directive 2009/119/EC on methods for calculating stock obligations, hereinafter referred to as the Implementing Directive. It is addressed to the Member States which are to adopt and publish the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to harmonise their national legislation with its requirements. With a view to fulfilling the obligations arising from EU law, the State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks and the Responsible Institution for the implementation of this European regulatory act has taken the appropriate measures and actions to draw up a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Oil Stocks and Works Act to introduce the provisions of the Implementation Directive into national law. The focus is on updating the references to Regulation (EC) No 1099/2008 on energy statistics. It is essential to introduce the definition of the products in use, a new version of the definition of the definition of the gross domestic supply and the more detailed identification of the various petroleum products, which are included in calculating the obligation to maintain stocks and taking into account the implementation of the stocks already created. The amendment to Annex 1 to the Directive has also been adopted as the methods for calculating stock obligations are presented more clearly and the amount of net imports of primary components is reduced by the largest of the three corresponding quantities. The wording concerning the calculation of the levels of stocks under Law, which debtors must create and maintain, is revised: - the automatic calculation of net imports and intra-Community arrivals by means of the EC software product for reporting to the Directorate-General of the European Commission on the levels of oil and/or petroleum products reached shall be submitted to the State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks by the National Statistical Institute; the change will avoid taking account of differences between the calculations made so far by the Agency and those of the European Software Product; full compliance will be achieved with the calculation methods to be applied by the Member States; - when calculating the average daily net imports and intra-Community arrivals, the types of energy products to be taken into account for the calculation and determination of stock levels, including all the energy products listed in Annex A, Chapter 3.4 of Regulation (EC) No 1099/2008, and heavy fuels for the calculation according to the method of net imports, as required by the Directive; this change achieves full compliance with the calculation methods set out in the Implementing Directive; - the period during which debtors must establish and maintain their individually defined levels of stocks, as set out in the Amendment Directive, while providing longer technological time for debtors to organise the performance of their duties; - after public consultation and public consultation with interested parties, a more flexible change from one stock to another stock under the Law is offered, which is considered to create a more rational opportunity for fulfilling obligations. The proposed changes will lead to the fulfilment of our country's obligations as a full member of the European Union, in the area of the creation and maintenance of stocks of oil and petroleum products for a minimum of 90 days, in cases of difficulties and/or significant disruptions of supply, in the context of security of supply falling within the priorities of the European Union's energy policies and compliance with the requirements of European Union law. The discussion was discussed and proposed the creation of a new art. 21a, regulating the cases of force majeure and the need to avoid and/or reduce the risk of interruption of the production process in which the debtors can carry out replacement without permission on proposals in the Bill art. 21, para. 16, only if they occur on a non-work day, for a period of not more than 10 calendar days. On the day on which the replacement is carried out, the debtor shall notify the Chair of the Agency in writing and shall apply all the documents required. The creation of para was also proposed. 3 in art. 68 where the size of the fine and the property penalties are determined in the event of infringement of art. 21a. Mr. Emil Dimitrov said he supports the proposals made at the meeting and committed himself to submitting them between the first and second votes on the bill. The discussion was attended by the MPs Stefan Burgeev, Kolyo Milev and Christian Mitev. Following the discussion and the vote held: with 10 votes for a vote, 1 vote against a vote and 6 votes abstentioned, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling proposes that the National Assembly adopt in first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Oil and Oil Stocks Act, No 902-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u99	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. The latest report is from the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Mehmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, to your attention, I present a Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Oil and Oil Stocks Act, No 902-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2019. At its regular meeting on 20 November 2019, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Oil and Oil Stocks Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. The draft presented Mr. Stanimir Peev, Chairman of the State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks, and Mrs. Koina Harbova, Head of the Legal and Normal Service Sector at the same agency. The proposed bill introduces in Bulgarian legislation the provisions of Directive (EU) 2018/1581 of the European Commission of 19 October 2018 amending Council Directive 2009/119/EC on methods for calculating stock obligations. The time limit for transposition shall be 19 October 2019. The importers point out that the bill aims to specify and detail certain provisions in the current legal framework, which give rise to a number of administrative and legal problems, on the one hand, to the subjects of the Law and, on the other, to the control bodies. As such, the importers point out: the failure of the debtors under art. Seventeenth para. 1 and 2 of the Law on the Establishment and Storage of Their Reserves by Administrative Act; the disproportionateness of the penalties imposed for non-compliance with the Oil and Oil Stocks Act, as well as the very failure of the administrative acts rendered by the Chair of the Agency due to the extended appeal procedure, which in most cases exceeds the period for the implementation of the decision. In the discussion that took place, there were discussable discrepancies between the impact assessment attached to the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Oil and Oil Stocks Act and the reasons for the same Bill, which is in reference to the wrong directive. The importers made a commitment to address the case in question and to remedy the discrepancies. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 2 votes..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u101	Thank you, dear Mrs. Mehmedova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. I can't see. I'm closing the debate. [[Noise and lines.]] You raised your hand after I closed the debate. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Atalay, I will break the rules for you. Here you go. [[Noise and lines.]] I'll take that responsibility. You have the right to protest, Mr. Chenchev. I hope I won't regret it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I apologize for violating the Rules of Procedure for a very serious bill. Given the dispute that was taking place in the Commission, I thought that GERB would be active and will take the floor, but still, let us say a few sentences because you have heard three reports. One of the three reports showed that they did not accept the bill, which is disturbing. It is embarrassing that the directive, which had to be transposed through this bill, should have ended in October. Therefore, colleagues, my request is that we adopt this bill at first reading so that we do not have the appropriate sanctions that have already started by the European Commission. However, this does not mean that we should not say about the concerns we have about this bill. A bill that's really drawn up, but there's a lot of nonsense. This bill dissatisfied both importers and those who, for one reason or another, must create those 90 daily stocks, which are necessary in the event of severe emergencies for Bulgaria. It is disturbing the innovation that the Council of Ministers or the Ministry must immediately require a derogation for bitumen, otherwise the highways we will be building will be twice as expensive as they are now. Especially the requirements and proposals to replace the stock of one type of fuel with another type of fuel, what we offer at the moment to manufacturers and manufacturers have certain claims in this regard. That is why I have taken the floor, Mr President, not so much to spit on the bill itself, but to express concern that we must keep up with the legislation so that we do not have sanctions from the European Union. At the same time, we should not be forced to accept such nonsense as to increase the price of both fuels and derivatives. There are still stocks of marine fuel in our bill, which is currently not being used anywhere in Bulgaria. Therefore, my request, Mr. President, is to extend the period between first and second readings to give the relevant proposals so that the National Assembly can create a working group headed by the President of the State Agency, the State Reserve and Wartime Stocks, to propose after the New Year a bill that is needed for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u103	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. I assume that once the vote is over, you will make an official proposal for what you just said. I will put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Oil and Oil Stocks Act, with No 902-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 113 MPs: 87, against 10, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. You are entitled to a procedure, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm taking procedure in the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman, and I'm addressing you. I'm sorry, but we've been wanting to make a statement. You have given colleagues the opportunity to speak, and therefore you have not given us the opportunity. We had something important to say about the Bill, proposals with which we would have convinced colleagues, who emphasized in their speech what the problems of the Bill were, proposals to make between first and second readings. Therefore, I think it is not right to give some colleagues the opportunity to speak and others to restrict them.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u105	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Yes, you have reason. I broke the rules. Mr. Atalay, I'm sorry! That was because of the exception I made. I won't let it happen again. To my own justification, I have actually waited long enough for all who are in this Chamber. Mr. Atalay came in after that. Here you go, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal, in accordance with the Rules of Organisation and Procedure of the National Assembly, to extend the period between first and second readings of three weeks so that the working group can clear all issues at issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u107	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. I shall put the proposal to the vote. [[Heckling]] Cancel the vote. Here you go, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u108	I apologize, Mr. Chairman. To explain to my colleagues a total of three weeks. The deadline will be three weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u109	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 107 MPs: 105 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Let's move on to the next point: LAW PROJECT FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT ON THE REPRESENTATION OF THE DEVELOPMENT POLICY OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA BETWEEN BULGARIA, OF THE ONE PART, AND THE ECONOMIC COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATION (COA) OF ANOTHER COUNTRY. Report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the Implementation of the Review of the Investment Policy of the Republic of Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria, of the one part, and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (DCI), of the other part, No 902-02-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 November 2019. At its regular meeting held on 20 November 2019, the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on the Implementation of the Review of the Investment Policy of the Republic of Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria, of the one part, and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (DCI), of the other part. The bill was presented by Lachezar Borisov "Deputy Minister of Economy." Reviewing our country's investment policy is a mandatory condition for our membership in the OECD and a necessary condition for joining the OECD Declaration on International Investments and Multinational Enterprises, which precedes our accession. The aim of the review is to attract more foreign investments that will lead to economic growth and sustainable development of our country. The stages of the review are: organizational, creation of a working group that will provide information on questionnaires proposed by the OECD and provide questionnaires to contact persons from the Bulgarian side to assist the OECD Secretariat in carrying out the review. The agreement contains clauses regulating financial obligations for the Republic of Bulgaria "in the amount of EUR 300,000 and settling possible disputes between Bulgaria and the OECD in a Permanent Arbitration Court in Paris. This requires its ratification by law. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above and on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for ratification of the Agreement on the Implementation of the Review of the Investment Policy of the Republic of Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria, of the one part, and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (DCI), of the other part, No 902-02-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 November 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u111	Thank you. The next report belongs to the Budget and Finance Committee. Mrs. Ilieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will introduce you to ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the Implementation of the Review of the Investment Policy of the Republic of Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria, of the one part, and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (ODA), of the other part, No 902-02-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 November 2019. At a regular meeting held on 21 November 2019, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined a draft law for ratification of the Agreement on the Implementation of the Review of the Investment Policy of the Republic of Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria, of the one part, and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (DCI), of the other part, No 902-02-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 November 2019. The bill was presented by Mr. Lachezar Borisov "Deputy Minister of Economy." The implementation of a review of our country's investment policy is one of the mandatory steps along the path of Bulgaria's membership in the OECD and is a necessary condition for Bulgaria's accession to the Declaration of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development on International Investment and Multinational Enterprises, which precedes accession. The aim of the review is to mobilise more private investments to support the country's economic growth and sustainable development and to contribute to economic and social prosperity. The investment policy reviews carried out by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development are an analysis of investment trends and policies in order to establish whether a country respects the principles shared by the OECD Member States. It will also enable our country to gain experience from the countries with the best economies in the world, which, in turn, will support reforms in all sectors of the socio-economic life of Bulgaria and will send a positive message to investors about the stability of the economy and the financial system. The review is worth 300,000 euros and will be financed through funds provided by the budget of the Ministry of Economy for 2019. The agreement as an international treaty contains clauses regulating financial obligations for Bulgaria and settlement of possible disputes between Bulgaria and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in a Permanent Arbitration Court in Paris, France, which requires that after its conclusion the Agreement be ratified by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution. Following the discussion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for the so- proposed bill, ending its discussion with the following results: The Committee on Budgets and Finance proposes to the National Assembly with 17 votes for.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u113	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mrs. Ivanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the Implementation of the Review of the Investment Policy of the Republic of Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria, of the one part, and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (DCI), of the other part, No 902-02-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 November 2019. At its meeting held on 20 November 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft for ratification of the Agreement on the Implementation of the Review of the Investment Policy of the Republic of Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria, of the one part, and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, of the other part, No 902-02-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 November 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Economy Mrs. Elena Pistovkoveva, Director of Directorate, Promotional Measures and Projects. The bill was presented by Mrs. Pistovkoleveva, who pointed out that on 2 October 2019 there was confirmation of an agreement reached between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Development and Cooperation, with which the OECD agreed to carry out a review of the investment policy and business climate in our country, with the aim of the review being the creation of conditions for the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Assessment. She added that after ratification of the Agreement, a working group will be established in the Ministry of Economy to assist the processes and distribute the work on the preparation of the evaluation by the Economic Cooperation and Assessment Team. Mrs. Pistovkoveva explained that the review of investment policy is a report on investment trends and policies, issues of public governance and other sectors, and after its preparation our country will gain experience from the countries with developed economies and will send a positive message to potential investors. The agreement provides for the preparation of expert analysis and commitment of various departments, with the financial obligations for the Republic of Bulgaria worth 300 000 euros provided under the budget of the Ministry of Economy for 2019. An arbitration clause is also envisaged in case of possible disputes between the parties. As a result of the vote taken, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 18 votes for abstention and non-voting proposal of the National Assembly to adopt, on the one hand, the Draft for the ratification of the Agreement on the Implementation of the Investment Policy Review of the Republic of Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (DCI), on the other hand, No 902-02-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 November 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u115	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ivanova. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Are there any speeches, colleagues? [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] I'm waiting, Mr. Lazarov, so there won't be another misunderstanding. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the Implementation of the Review of the Investment Policy of the Republic of Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria, of the one part, and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (DCI), of the other part, No 902-02-27. Vote 101 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u116	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members on the grounds of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on the Implementation of the Review of the Investment Policy of the Republic of Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria, of the one part, and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (DCI), of the other part, No 902-02-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 November 2019, be adopted on the second vote, as no proposals for amendment and supplement of the bill were made during the discussion of the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u117	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 98 MPs: 97, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please submit for a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement on the Implementation of the Review of the Investment Policy of the Republic of Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria, of the one part, and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (DCI), of the other part A single member. Ratifying the Agreement on the Implementation of the Review of the Investment Policy of the Republic of Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria, of the one part, and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (DCI), of the other part, concluded by Exchange of Letters signed on 18 September 2019 in Sofia and on 2 October 2019 in Paris. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-28.u119	Statements? I can't see. I will put to the vote the following texts: the first......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The proposals have been accepted. Parliamentary control announcements on Friday 29 November 2019: 1. The Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer four questions from the MPs Georgi Mihailov and Desislav Taskov two questions; Valentina Naydenova and Desislav Taskov; Georgi Yordanov and Georgi Mihailov. 2. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer six questions from the MPs Lyubomir Bonev, Nikolai Ivanov, Dora Yankova, Vasil Antonov, Georgi Gokov and Manol Genov. 3. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer a question from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov. 4. The Minister of Culture Boel Banov will answer two questions from the MPs Ivan Chenchev, Alexander Simov, Chavdar Velinov, Nona Yotova and Anastas Popdimitrov; and Kristina Sidorova and Alexander Simov; and one question from the National Representative Anton Kutev. 5. The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer two questions from the MPs Mihail Hristov and Milko Nedyalkov. 6. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov. 7. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov will answer three questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova, Georgi Gokov and Slavcho Atanasov; and one question from the MP Dora Yankova. 8. The Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov will answer a question from the MP Anton Kutev. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva to a question with a written answer from the MP Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov to a question from the National Representative Kristian Vigenin; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on three questions with written answer from the MPs Valentina Naydenova; Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; and Nikolai Ivanov and Lalo Kirilov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on two questions with written answer from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov; and a question from the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Manol Genov, Atanas Kostadinov, Lubomir Bonev, Milko Nedyalkov, Vasil Antonov, Ivan Valentinov and Tasco Ermenkov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Elena Pesheva; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on two questions from the MPs Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Jeleva; and Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva of a question by the MPs Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Jeleva; - Culture Minister Boel Banov to two questions with a written answer from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Lalo Kirilov. The next regular plenary session on 29 November 2019 at 9.00 in accordance with the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
