ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Please register. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, the first point of the day is: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT FOR THE CHANGE OF THE AGREEMENT ON MULTIPAYED PAYMENTS IN TRANSFERRAL ROBLES AND THE ORGANIZATION OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION, AS AND THE REPRESENTATION OF THE BANK AND OF THE AVOIDATION OF THE AGREEMENT ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION OF 22 OCTOBER 1963 (With THE CHANGES IN THE DECEMBER 18, 1970, NOVEMBER 23, 1977 AND DECEMBER 18, 1990) AND ON THE STATUTE OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION (with THE CHANGES IN THE DECEMBER 18, 1970, NOVEMBER 23, 1977 AND DECEMBER 18, 1990)). Importer of the Council of Ministers, 26 November 2018 One communication: on 24 January 2019 with entry No 953-16-01 from the Commission on the interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints received a Report on the Commission's activities for the period 1 July 31 December 2018. The report was sent to the MPs of their service e-mail and is available in the Library of the National Assembly. The First Point Report will introduce us to Mr. Ivanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to propose a procedure under art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for Ms. Marinela Petrova's admission to the Deputy Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u3	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 157 MPs: 152 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the guest to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I will present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement on multilateral payments in translation rubles and the Organisation of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation, as well as the Statute of that Bank and the Protocol amending the Agreement on the Organization and Activities of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963. (as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990) and the Statute of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation (as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990).), No 802-02-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 November 2018. At a regular meeting held on 24 January 2019, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement on multilateral payments in translation rubles and the Organisation of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation, as well as the Statute of that Bank and the Protocol amending the Agreement on the Organization and Activity of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963. (as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990) and the Statute of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation (as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990).), No 802-02-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 November 2018. The bill was presented by Mrs. Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The International Bank for Economic Cooperation (IBIS) was founded in 1963 in Moscow under an international agreement. The Agreement on multilateral payments in translation rubles and the Organization of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation, as amended by Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990, and Bulgaria has the status of a founding country. The legal capital of the MBIS is currently 400 million. EUR and the imported part is 200 million. Euros. Bulgaria's participation in the statutory capital of MBIS amounted to 30.2 million. The Bank's capital was EUR 7,56 per cent of the Bank's capital, with the contribution of 15,121 million. EUR, or 7,56 per cent of the paid-up capital. Bulgaria ranks fourth in the MBIS on equity participation in the paid-up part of the statutory capital. The other member states are Russia, the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Mongolia and Vietnam. In 2013, an update of the founding documents of the MBIS was prepared. The amendments to the constituent documents aim to update them in order to align them with the current conditions in which the Bank operates. This new version of the founding documents was proposed by the Protocol amending the Agreement on the Organization and Activity of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation and the Statute of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation and the Protocol was signed on behalf of the Republic of Bulgaria on 25 November 2014 in Warsaw in implementation of the Decision under this Decision. 30 of Protocol No 38 of the Council of Ministers' meeting on 25 September 2013, hereinafter referred to as "the Council of Ministers'. The Protocol signed on 25 November 2014 makes the following changes to the founding documents of the international institution: the names of the Member States shall be aligned with the current names of those countries and, given the refusal of participation of the Republic of Cuba and Hungary and their exit from the MBIS shall be aligned and the texts relating to the ownership of those countries shall be updated as well as the names of the currency and of the depositary. Following the signing of the Protocol of 25 November 2014, it was found that the original document as a result of a technical error was attended by a Griff The Griff has been removed by a Protocol adjusting the text of the Protocol amending the Agreement on the Organization and Activity of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963. (as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990) and the Statute of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation (with the amendments tabled by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990) and has been signed in Warsaw on 25 November 2014. The Protocol will enter into force after the Member States have completed the procedures under their national law, from the date on which the last of the Contracting Parties submitted the ratification document to the depositary of this Protocol to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation. Together with the Protocol of 26 November 2014 the National Assembly shall be submitted for ratification and amendments to the Agreement and to the Statute of 18 December 1990. There are grounds under art. 85, para. 1, t. 2, 4 and 8 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria for ratification by the National Assembly by law of the two protocols. After presenting and discussing the draft, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 19 votes for the resolution of the Protocol amending the Agreement on multilateral payments in translation rubles and the organisation of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation, as well as the Statute of that Bank and the Protocol amending the Agreement on the Organization and Activities of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation on 22 October 1963. (as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990) and the Statute of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation (as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990).), No 802-02-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 November 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. We are going to debate. You have the floor, honourable Members, on the bill under consideration. I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put the bill under consideration to the vote. Vote 156 MPs: for 153, against none, abstention 3. The bill has been passed. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u6	Mr. Chairman, I request a procedure on the grounds of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for a second vote today on the Law which we have just adopted at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 149 MPs: 143 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u8	This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. (as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990) and the Statute of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation (as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990).(See Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u9	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I'm voting on the name of the Law. Vote 156 MPs: for 156, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u10	Art. 1. It ratifies the Protocol amending the Agreement on multilateral payments in translation rubles and the organisation of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation, as well as the Statute of that Bank, drawn up on 18 December 1990 in Moscow. Art. 2. Ratifying the Protocol amending the Organisation and Activity Agreement of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963 (as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990) and the Statute of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation (as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990).), published on 25 November 2014 in Warsaw.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u11	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2 by importer. They voted 145 MPs: 143, against 2, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted. Moving on to the next point of the program: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. I will introduce you to new questions for the period from 18 January to 24 January 2019: - a request from the National Representative Tanya Petrova to Krasimir Valchev is asked about the views of the Ministry of Education and Science on the future of language schools. The plenary sitting should be answered on 1 February 2019. [[Noise and lines.]] You have the floor, Mrs. Grozdanova, for a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the political party's parliamentary group GERB will present a declaration on the occasion of the International Holocaust Memorial Day. Almost 80 years after the beginning of one of the darkest and most startling periods in world history, the genocide committed by the Nazi regime over the Jewish people, this crime against humanity, which has cost over six million lives, continues to raise questions about how hatred found its expression in the desire to be mercilessly persecuted and massacred innocent women, men and children. With the outbreak of World War II, Europe forgets its cultural and civilisational contribution to world history and absorbed by the horrors of global conflict becomes a scene of ruthless cruelty like the Holocaust. The Hitlerist regime sends millions to death, led by its hatred, intolerance and disregard for differences......................and the question remains how it came to this point and how not to repeat this darkest part of the newer history. Although a formal ally of Hitlerist Germany in 1943, Bulgaria does not allow more than 48,000 Jewish citizens to be sent to concentration camps. The pressure of the Nazis is not enough to break the spirit of the Bulgarian people and overcome its tolerance. A group of MPs from the Twenty-Fiveth Common National Assembly, headed by sub-chair Dimitar Peshev, the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, prominent public figures and representatives of the cultural community, strongly opposed and thwarted the mass deportation of tens of thousands of Bulgarian Jews in the death camps. A historic moment, which still to this day, 76 years later, sets our country a place among the righteous among the nations, among those who have the moral right to be a moral example for the whole world. Bulgaria sets an unambiguous example in tolerance and respect for the human personality, regardless of its religious and ethnicity. However, in the context of global challenges such as extreme populism and attempts to extract all sorts of political dividends, democracy and its achievements call into question, and we, as MPs, must be irreconcilable to any attempt to suppress fundamental human freedoms. We are anxious to note that examples of hate - based action are not lacking in our modern times. We are witnessing vandalism and violations of monuments and religious temples. Worried is the recent defamation against the Sofia synagogue. Here is the point to note that the Bulgarian institutions, in cooperation with both the non-governmental and the civil sector, respond to every signal and information about a crime of similar nature. It is these actions that demonstrate determination to form measures that, on the one hand, create conditions for punishing the guilty but also to propose prevention. Education, which is a major priority of the government, is a key element in the efforts of young people to study and remember the consequences that totalitarian regimes have led to - fascism, communism and Nazism. Today Bulgaria, through its political and public representatives, demonstrates the determination of each of us as a people to fight any manifestation of hate speech with anti-Semitism, racism and xenophobia. Our country was among the first five to formally adopt the international definition of anti-Semitism and appoint a national coordinator to fight anti-Semitism and hate language in 2017. The continued commitment of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov and Bulgarian diplomacy led our country to find its deserved place as a full member of the International Alliance for the Memorial of the Holocaust. Membership, which further obliges our country to be an active part of the community, which puts on the international agenda the need to take timely, adequate measures to secure an environment free from crimes of racial, ethnic and religious motives. The past 2018 has been marked by two more events. In March in Skopje, Prime Minister Borisov and a delegation led by him bowed to the memory of over 11,000 and 300 Jews deported by the Nazis from the lands of today's Macedonia. In September, during their second visit to Israel, Mr. Borisov, together with Prime Minister Netanyahu, discovered the twin monument of the salvation of the Bulgarian Jews. History cannot be changed, but on days like January 27, its lessons especially sound. It is our duty to look at them responsibly and with the belief that we will not save our strength and resources, without regard to our political affiliation, in order to combat the actions, the consequences of which are difficult to overcome for entire countries and peoples. The memory must not die. It should remind even future generations. It is therefore important to find such an approach that will be effective in the future. It must express the grief of suffering and loss, be dedicated to the memory of the victims, and prevent any danger of recurrence. With these words in 1996, German President Roman Duke declared January 27, a day in memory of the victims of national socialism in Germany. On November 1, 2005, the date was also officially adopted by the UN General Assembly, which declared it an International Holocaust Memorial Day in its resolution. Let's remember, ladies and gentlemen! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u13	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u14	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chairman, I'm addressing you in connection with the organisation of parliamentary control. I asked Minister Vladislav Goranov what instructions he gave to the mayors of municipalities in the preparation of the budget in order to fulfill the wish of the Council of Ministers and the message of the meeting with the small mayors in the adoption of budgets to be able to have funds for them on the list. Maybe five thousand forty-five settlements are waiting for an answer. The Prime Minister, Mr. Tomislav Donchev, Mr. Goranov, Mr. Simeonov, including Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, made a meeting on 12 November 2018 and promised, gave a message that there will be such a list in the budgets. Next week will end the adoption of budgets and the issue will be meaningless. Here, when we ask such questions, and you are in the actuality of the political situation, perhaps today Mr. Goranov should have given an answer: did he create an organization, did he give a message and an indication to the municipalities when preparing budgets, how should this happen? I would like to ask you until the end of parliamentary control, if you could arrange for this to come, to explain, because the mayors of settlements themselves, many of them have turned to me, including the Association, are waiting for an answer. If not, you are sweeping away a political message that hangs in the air. Perhaps it is not for a reason that the Prime Minister is upset with you at your forum, why you are not fulfilling your commitments! Thank you. [[Noise, shout by GERB: "Eee!" and applause by BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u15	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. If this is the same question you asked Minister Goranov yesterday, I read that he asked on the grounds of art. 96, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure adjourned the answer by seven days, which is in the order of the Rules. We're continuing with parliamentary control. First, the written answers: - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova will answer a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - from the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question from the MPs Manol Genov, Lubomir Bonev and Georgi Yordanov; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Ivan Genov; - from Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev to a question from the MPs Ivan Valentinov and Stoyan Mirchev; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev; - from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov to two questions from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - from Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov to a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Chavdar Velinov; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Vasil Antonov. We continue with a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov to Mr. Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister, on policies regarding Roma integration. You have the floor, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of Parliament! My question to you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, is about the policies of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy or at all policies that relate to Roma integration. In fact, you, as deputy prime minister, have to answer that question. They just pointed the question to you because it was to the former Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov who was in charge of this, but now you are you as instructed. And I don't know why they sent you, but I will really focus the issue on Roma integration. I have about 20 years of experience in social work and often encounter the problems of different ethnic groups, including Roma. The most global and important problem, which, despite the efforts and funds, remains unresolved, is the one with their integration or in other words their involvement in the Bulgarian society and its processes. All this has to do with serious difficulties and it is a fact that most of the Roma do not want to participate in this integration. For example, such a high degree of illiteracy among Roma makes it difficult to involve them in all kinds of work, and this leads to a higher degree of crime among them. There is a situation currently created in the country, following the frequent criminal incidents involving people of Roma origin, including Vojvodinovo, in the municipality of Maritsa District Plovdiv, where two Roma brothers beat up a 33-year-old soldier in the center of the village, and the other incident on the road between Sliven and Gurkovo, where a criminally committed Roma male attacked with an axe of students from the Military School. Probably not by chance these incidents, but they are creating serious tensions throughout the country, because we are still facing elections and some are trying to ride this wave. However, after these incidents more and more Bulgarians ask themselves the question: is there a failure in Roma integration policy? What are the reasons for the extremely weak and unacceptable negative results in the process of Roma integration? Even your colleague, Deputy Prime Minister in the government, admitted that there is a problem in society and that these problems in society are solved, first of all, with frequent talk about it. That's why I'm asking you to talk about it. And the second thing he thinks is to say everything, with measures to integrate this population as an answer to society's questions. In this regard, my question to you is: do you recognise the failure of Roma integration and the low effectiveness of the measures implemented, as laid down in the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration, and what measures in the short and long term is the government planning to solve the serious unresolved problems in terms of Roma integration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u18	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, first of all, I will try to correct your integration policies cannot be the priority of just one ministry, and that is the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. This must be a horizontal task of the entire government corps, because I can argue that at least half of the departments have direct commitments regarding this topic. It is right to put the assessment at the end, but if I have to make a brief assessment in the years back, since the topic of integration of ethnic minorities has been adopted as a priority. This has probably happened for more than two decades, strategies have been adopted, plans have been written, budgets have been developed, responsible employees have been pointed out, money has been spent. By the way, any speculation about how much money has been spent, there is no way that it will lead you to a specific quantity value of budget results, for one simple reason the Bulgarian administrations have no right to collect data on ethnic grounds. This can happen during the census. So the task of each measure is to help.. whether the educational one, whether the social one, whether the health status, without being able to keep an accurate account of the person's ethnic profile. Efforts have been made, the results are very different from what the Bulgarian society expects. However, the reasons are not at the level of technology. They are at the level of a common political cut of the process. I'll pay attention to that. If we talk about technology, what is written in thick books, integration policies are based on four pillars, and if there is no one of them, politics cannot be sustainable, is just like the mass, if there are no four legs, it will collapse in one side. Education comes first for a reason. Education would solve the problem in depth 10, 15, 20 years. You're quoting unpleasant incidents. I can argue that if the people involved in these incidents had received a good, real education in the past, perhaps these incidents would not have happened or at least half of them would not have happened. Perhaps you have noted that especially the last two years the state is not the Ministry of Education the state is making extraordinary efforts in this direction, and the entire apparatus is involved here, not only the educational institutions, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, social workers, the Ministry of Interior, nearly 12 thousand people from the state administration along with the staff of a number of educational institutions are circling the neighborhoods, using all the legislative possibilities to make the children return to class. And there's a result of that. In the last year alone, more than 17,000 children have been returned to class. Of course, some of them are dropping out of a very small number, we are trying to bring them back. And that's not the whole problem. They being returned to class not only must remain, but from their stay in class have a long-term effect. The second support is health care, which also includes family planning. You know, a lot of Roma have low health status, family planning is also a topic. Here, if we can point to something successful that happened in the years back beyond any political situation, because as I recall, this is a model created more than decades ago, is the figure of the health mediator. This is undoubtedly a successful Bulgarian patent. The third pillar is the integration of the labour market. We also have a positive trend here. To be completely honest, as I always try to be, this is also due to the measures financed by the European Social Fund, but also due to the convergence of the labour market, where there is a shortage of workforce. For this same reason, things that seemed impossible three or four years ago and today we have many Roma involved in construction, in agriculture, even in industry. However, this is largely due to hunger for a workforce, yet the trend is favorable. The fourth pillar, and for me the biggest pain and the biggest wound, is housing policy. Because you are well aware that in the years back, a number of foolish rulers have allowed the appearance of ghettos. Gaeta, I don't mean neighborhoods, villages with some compact ethnic profile, I mean collecting illegal buildings and having illegal buildings is just the beginning of the problem. When you have an illegal residence, you don't have a plan by the order of the Code of Conduct on the territory, you don't have public infrastructure. When you have an illegal home, you can't have electricity and water and the subscriber is legally connected. And here goes a string of possible potential and often real violations of the law. In many cases, the reason for recirculating negative behavior is because of poor social status, increased levels of criminal activity, namely the ghetto, which of its inhabitants is sometimes considered to be an extrasterial structure, where other rules and other laws apply. Even more so if you're born in the ghetto, there's a good chance you can't leave it, stay there. And the truth is that in the years back, when we speak the years back, here we can say at least the last three decades, the state has found no adequate mechanism to deal with this problem, although it is clearly written in the Law on Construction in the territory that an illegal building is being destroyed, demolished. It's not just the solution. No one wants to cause a humanitarian disaster, leaving, not thousands, but tens of thousands of people without a home. In addition, solving the problem cannot be postponed indefinitely in time. Because it is in the ghetto that all bad habits are recycled, and until the ghetto problem is resolved, all other efforts will not make sense. Even if the child goes to class, even if the child goes to school, when he goes back to the ghetto, he falls into a bad gravity that can change his behavior in a direction other than the one he received in the class. I was saying the technology was right. It is based on everything used by other countries - European countries. There's been a mistake in politics, I repeat, there's a mistake in politics. And the biggest mistake in politics is that the historical theme "Integration" has gone without public debate, without public consensus, without attempts to convince the whole Bulgarian society, what the technology of integration will be, what efforts should be made and what this means. For this same reason, the topic of integration is hanging in the air. For a large part of Bulgarian citizens, it is considered a commitment only to the elites and on top of it because of the obscene suspicion that someone is using this community as an electoral tank.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Mr. Gokov, you have the floor for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, you emotionally approach this issue is emotional because in some way it concerns the whole Bulgarian society, and it has almost unambiguously said that we are not dealing with Roma integration at the moment. I agree with you that integration measures are the work of the whole country. They are horizontal measures, there is no way to talk that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will solve the problems of Roma ethnicity. And it really doesn't matter how much money has been spent. I have asked such a question in writing and it has now been answered to me, but I have not reviewed it, but it is very important what is the effect of this money spent and it is also very important what remains as a sense of injustice in society. Here we come to your closing words in your previous statement that we are politicizing the problem and there is no public consensus on it; we are giving certain groups of politicians the opportunity to ride the problem and build policies on its basis that will hardly lead to a better state of Bulgarian society. The four problems that have emerged are really important and huge. Since I'm running out of time, I'm going to try to ask you two additional questions on the subject. The first one is: do you foresee any legal changes that will lead to Roma children staying in school? Now we've made some changes to bring them back to school, but to stay in school, as if it had no effect on what we've done so far?! The other question is the huge problem with illegal construction. Does the government have a view of dealing with this problem? Because by law it is clear that the demolition is clear, only there is no way to do it, because I am not talking about these buildings with nylon and patched tents, I am talking about that there are raised very serious and massively built illegal houses and there must be some solution of the legislator, and it may be at the initiative of the government, because you collect the data and you can analyze where there is and how this problem can be overcome. So, do you have any insight into this? I would like to talk about the experience of other countries, the public debate and the public consensus, but this is an extremely serious and long issue which, within a single question, we cannot end. Thank you, and I apologize for the delay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u22	I agree with Mr. Gokov that in terms of this extremely difficult problem it is not right to make political speculation. By the way, this would be low or low technology in politics, which, as we know from the industry, low technologies produce low added value. Foreign experience and my personal beliefs show that at least in terms of both topics of education and housing policy, the approach must be characterized by absolute integrity and use of the entire state resource to help the child go to class, but at the same time all state coercion in relation to parents. The same is true of illegal construction. The problem is clear. Whoever says otherwise lies, can't be solved in a month or two. Because, again, we are talking about tens of thousands of Bulgarian citizens. The first priority is undoubtedly zero tolerance to enlargement. Because I don't know if you know, but the ghetto, apart from being there, has a tendency to expand, even the neighboring buffer zones of the neighborhoods, to do the ghetto too?! I mentioned earlier that we could have a conversation at technology level. Only it's nice to have a conversation before that at the level of politics. And when I talk about politics, I'm absolutely honest with you that it's wrong. It rests on the presumption, for example, that the minority undoubtedly has a desire to integrate. That's not true! That is not true, and saying the opposite is hypocrisy. In this sense, other than incentives, measures of a different nature need to be taken here. And for me, it is absolutely indisputable, especially when we talk about inclusive education, that with regard to parents who do not let their children into class, such measures must be taken. There are provisions in the legislation to stop child support, for example, obviously this is not enough. There is no public support for much of integration policies. Integration cannot be imposed because a minister, a group of MPs, has decided that this is important. And it's not going anywhere until it's a public priority. The citizen, besides a citizen, besides the one who voted, is a taxpayer. Some of the measures happen with budget money. Until we have a public consensus on the subject, things are going to be difficult. And most of all, historically wrong integration model in general. At the level of public perception integration has largely happened as something imported from outside. We almost have such policies, because this is what Europe wants. It can't be like this. If Bulgarian citizens do not have the belief that this is important, that there is no alternative, it cannot happen. And the most severe, the emergence of a feeling of right or wrong, that integration implies special rights of minorities, which condemns the very idea of integration of political and social marginalisation. For me, the strongest integration effect involves both special measures and following the same rules and the same responsibilities. If we allow a different set of responsibilities of Bulgarian citizens, then there will be no integration.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. You have the floor to express your attitude towards the answers received, dear Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of Parliament! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I very much hope that you do not consider my question at the moment as an attempt to politicize the topic of integration of Roma ethnicity. I think this question is very timely because, with the recent incidents I have quoted, the society has been seriously excited about this issue and it is clear as much as we are talking that we have done something-what we have spent each other-what money, that there is no integration of this ethnicity in the Bulgarian society, its integration is difficult and it is becoming more difficult. As you said, the houses in the illegal slums are taking over the surrounding neighborhoods, as well as with the serious birth rate, unlike other ethnicities in Bulgaria, is also becoming a very serious problem. No one in this country will say that there is some visible progress in Roma integration. It is no coincidence in the National Assembly that we reject two consecutive reports, as I recall, but at least the last in implementing the Strategy for Roma Integration has been rejected. I see that you have a serious understanding of the issue, only I do not see that you have a solution to the problems. From all that you have said, I was not under the impression that, let us say, after my inquiry or tomorrow, when the report on the implementation of the Strategy is tabled again, and which I suppose we will reject again, the state will have some adequate measures on this issue. Believe me, this is a serious problem. I think without my warning you know it. For the last time, I will say that if we continue to postpone it in time, it is now almost unsolvable, but it will become extremely unsolvable. I don't know who says there's pressure from Europe?! We cannot use experience from other countries because they are not in our position. They have never been in our position on historical principles, so we have to save ourselves and offer solutions that will lead to something good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Thank you for taking part in the control today, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u26	Dear Bulgarian citizens, the bankruptcy of Corporate Commercial Bank was announced in 2014. In 2017, prosecutor Ivan Geshev announced that in the model "KTB" there were revealed links of politicians who received unregulated money by order of Tsvetan Vassilev in cash. I immediately wrote a letter to the Special Prosecutor's Office and asked for the names of these politicians to be made public. Today we are at the end of January 2019 and, as you know, no politician has been made public and no investigation has started against him. However, an accusation was brought against the colleague and journalist Elena Yoncheva. And we ask ourselves, why now, after five years? Dear Bulgarians and colleagues, in five years Elena has not been called, has not been questioned, has not been given the right to explain, to present documents and evidence. In five years, no one in the investigation has heard of Elena Yoncheva's name. And of course the question is: why is this happening to her now? Because this is a political process, not a criminal one. Because it is a repression because of her courage to carry out the cases of theft and corruption in Bulgaria: on the fence with Turkey; on the fence with the Kumgate in Haskovo; the construction of the roads, to afford to start an investigation about the house of a politician in Barcelona, and to condemn him for lying. That's why Elena was put on this repression today. Naturally, we are all standing behind it and the parliamentary group and the Bulgarian Socialist Party. We're not gonna let her have repression and pressure. We will support her with all the opportunities we have as a party and as her colleagues. Today, however, we are also attracting international support by sending letters with full information about what is happening to the European Union embassies, to the International Federation of Journalists, the European Federation of Journalists, Reporters without Borders, who gave us the terrible 111 place in media freedom during the management of Boyko Borisov. This question, honourable Bulgarians, is not just the question of protecting Elena. He's symptomatic of a few things. A corporate commercial bank is a vivid example of behind-the-scenes, a merger of power and money, of mafia and government and the real culprits will not be exposed and punished. They're standing in the back of that backyard and they're still getting the CTB you paid for out of your pocket. Secondly, this is the transition model, which unfortunately continues today, and which we have been proposing for two years to end. However, this is also a third question, not for Elena Yoncheva, but for statehood, because it harshly violates the principle of separation of authorities. The executive used part of the judiciary for political repression. These are the last attempts of an authoritarian power to use all measures to save itself. This is an image of another element of the rule of law, democratic and constitutional Bulgaria to take away any freedom of speech, of the different opinion, to punish the one who criticizes and has the courage to show the corruption of power. This is also a test of the resistance forces of our society. Thank you to the Union of Bulgarian Journalists. Thank you all, and on behalf of Elena, to the Cluster for free speech. We thank the thousands of people who called us and her to express their support. You have shown that society has resistance, we can together not only condemn Borisov's authoritarian regime in Bulgaria, we can reject it together. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u27	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Procedure, dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u28	Mr. Chairman, I pay attention to you in the manner of conduct and to call you, even in the procedure... [[Loud noise and lines: the map!]] I address you, Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct. Even in a declaration by a parliamentary group, I would ask you to call on the colleagues of this tribune when they speak... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] First, there is a Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in which there is a division of authorities. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u29	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u30	Interference in the work of these institutions from the National Assembly stands should not be allowed because we violate the principles of the Constitution of our Republic. Secondly, I would like you to pay attention to those who speak of this tribune not to use government epithets and to use their parliamentary right for speeches that they are trying to defend in some way. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] There are institutions, there is evidence where they can present to the Bulgarian court and prosecution. Please do not allow the National Assembly's stand to be used for such a tribunal! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, ladies ministers! Mr. Chairman, you have now violated the Rules of Procedure of this National Assembly once again. How can that be?! How can you allow a ruling majority member to determine what the President of the Bulgarian opposition can say?!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u33	Is there only one President of the Bulgarian opposition? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u34	To determine from the time of a parliamentary group when a question concerning all Bulgarian citizens is raised, and you give him the opportunity to go out here on this stand and expose himself and to say what the Bulgarian opposition should say. This is unacceptable and I ask you not to do this again! When a member of the parliamentary group speaks, the chair of the parliamentary group has the right to say what he wants when he wants and as he wants. [[Voices: "Eee!" by GERB.]] One MP who is not even in the leadership of the ruling group can't come out and make a remark to you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. To answer only Mr. Svilensky. Actually, Mr. Ivanov's remark was to me. I didn't allow myself to make a comment or interfere with the speech. I think both your attitude and your remark to me was not particularly relevant. You have the floor in the manner of conduct, dear Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Chairman, I really strongly ask you, when someone tries to the public, because here in the Chamber, inside the BSP, they can say whatever they want, but to say that Cornelia Ninova is the President of the opposition, excuse me, but let's ask our colleagues from the DPS and us from the Volya. [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And we will not allow Cornelia Ninova to represent us in the Bulgarian National Assembly. [[Applause from GERB.]] She, on behalf of the BSP, is right a colleague, can speak whatever she wants, but not on behalf of the BSP, not on behalf of the DPS. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and Volya.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Mr. Gurnevsky, in the manner of conduct. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u38	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues have the right to say what they want from a parliamentary group, and you are obliged to give the floor to say what they want. But you have no right to give the word to thieves to shout, "Keep the thief!" [[(Laughter and applause from GERB. Replies from BSP for Bulgaria "Punishment": "Punishment"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u39	Wait a minute. What kind of punishment? [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] He had a right to speak. He didn't insult anyone and there was no reason Mr. Gurnevsky...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u40	In a way to explain why.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u41	Explain, but please don't make any nonexistent connections, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No, relationships are very existing. From this tribune spoke Cornelia Ninova, spoke colleague Ivanov, and I spoke. Then Mr. Gurnevsky came out and said: "Don't let the thieves shout! I ask you to punish him as I recognize myself as one of the people who spoke before him. [[Loud noise, shouts: "Bravo!" and applause by GERB.]] And for that reason, I ask you to punish him. If not, I'll seek my rights in court because Mr. Gurnevsky insulted exactly three people. And to tell Mr Mareshki that all the votes on budgets, personnel in the government, supported them, so there is no way to be opposition in this National Assembly. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u43	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Look, I didn't recognize anyone, and I'm the guy. [[(Strength noise and replica by GERB:]] You, if you recognize each other. But I promise to listen carefully and judge what he said in the context of what he said before, Mr. Gurnevsky. In the manner of conduct you have the floor, dear Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable MPs! In the remarks, which were made by the representatives of the ruling party, there was an attempt to limit the right to speak, the right to freedom of thought, the right to criticism and all those rights that the Bulgarian Constitution provides to all Bulgarian citizens. The attempt to limit the declaration of the parliamentary group of BSP in its content is violation of the Constitution, not simply of the Rules of the National Assembly. That the GERB colleague does not know what the Constitution says is admissible. He's probably not the only one. But the fact that you, who are on the stand, do not adhere to the Constitution, is now a separate matter. I believe that this goes against the competences you carry out, and perhaps on subsequent occasions, we will think about what to do. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. I want to tell you that I am, in fact, the one who is currently in charge of the sitting and I am assessing who and how he has spoken. [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] As you can see, I have in no way restricted any of the speakers, thus complying with my obligations under the Rules of Procedure to give each and every Member of the National Assembly the opportunity to express their views. The Members of the National Assembly, who have so far expressed their opinion, have in no way gone against my own understanding of freedom. I didn't find any in either or in the others who were speaking on the subject, an attempt to limit. My attitude and my reaction have been criticised, but this is a subjective view of those speaking both to the left and to the right. It is my right to decide who and how much he has broken the Rules and to take action. In the manner of conduct please, dear Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u46	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, you, as President of the National Assembly, are here and you have heard very well what Mr. Gurnevsky said. You should follow the Rules of the National Assembly and in art. 158 of our Rules of Procedure, which you have adopted with your votes and which has the power of law, are written as follows: The statement is made by the President, that is to say, by you, to a Member of Parliament who has addressed a colleague or colleagues with abusive words, gestures or threats. Dear Mr. Chairman, to call your colleague or colleagues a thief or a thief what do you think it is? What you didn't notice, and didn't that refer to insulting words? If a thief is not a callous word, then what is an intriguing word for you? I ask you to impose this disciplinary penalty, at least a remark to see that the National Assembly is the institution where the laws should ultimately be respected, namely the Rules of the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. I did not react immediately after Mr. Gurnevsky's speech, simply because I took what he said as something that has been widely distributed and used so far. You've heard it in different media. I've already announced that I'm going to review the tape and in the context of what Mr. Gurnevsky said before, and what he said, I'm going to make a decision. You want me to make rash decisions on something that I personally have no inner conviction about. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Quiet, please! What Mr. Gurnevsky said, I took it at the moment that he was told as part of what we see and listen to every day in some media. In the manner of conduct you have the floor, dear Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, ladies Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers! Mr. Chairman, regarding your thesis, I took the liberty of taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, and it was that you found nothing in what was said by the pre-speakers, and the occasion was the declaration on behalf of our parliamentary group, which was read by the chair of the parliamentary group. Since so, why did you even give the floor to the procedure in the manner of keeping this declaration? And since you repeatedly, and your colleagues, too, allow yourselves to violate all the principles of constitutionality and institutionality here, I will remind you of something, as there have also been sentiments here that have been said. I'll tell you something you'll understand very well, I hope. By violating the rules in this way and by this attitude that the rulers demonstrate, it seems to me that very soon you will realize that September will be May for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u50	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u51	I'll give you the floor in the manner of conduct, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Mareshki on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, ladies ministers! These days we have witnessed a gross violation of international law and attempts at interference in the internal affairs of sovereign states. Since we have just mentioned a violation of a Constitution, a violation of rules, we are using this case to express our firm support to the democratically elected President of the Republic of Venezuela, Mr Maduro. [[Voices: "Eee!" and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] We consider it unacceptable any interference in Venezuela's internal affairs by other countries. The Venezuelan people, like any free people, have the freedom and the right to choose the path of their own development and their own leaders. We side with the Venezuelan people and condemn any attempts to impose decisions taken by the backstage or some political labs. We call on the Bulgarian Foreign Minister, as well as the National Assembly, to come up with an official position in this sense to show our empathy for democratic values, for constitutions, for rules. The current leaders of the European Union have taken cowardly, blurry, politically correct positions that once again show that the Union needs a great change in order to be able to show strength and independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. The way you're holding Mr. Gokov. Mr. Ivanov after Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u54	Mr. President, at the risk of violating the Rules on what Mr. Mareshki said on behalf of a parliamentary group, I allow myself to invite all Members of Parliament down to the Mirror Hall. There will be a meeting with Her Excellency Orieta Caponi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u56	And the Foreign Minister is invited to the meeting with the Ambassador. Now is the time to express a position on democracy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u57	Dear Mr. Chairman, ministers, colleagues! The procedure is the way it's run. I believe that in the debate that was heated, the President took a very proper position, namely to see exactly what and what it was said. I would like to address the President here and draw attention to a stenogram. After the case in Svoge, when 17 Bulgarian citizens were killed, a whole parliamentary group was called "Murderers." At the time, he had nothing to do with the speech. If we have to be a parliament with the same criteria and measure with the same archin, I suggest that this too be taken out as a stenogram. In my colleague Gurnevski's speech, no one was mentioned by name, as well as the colleague who spoke accordingly. Mr. President, you have acted very wisely and I suggest that, when you have taken your wise decision by the Chairman's Council, you pay attention to both of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. [[Applause from GERB.]] Back to the way you're driving. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u59	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! This time, as I've said before, I'm not going to get away with it. I'm going to go through the transcript and decide. Mr. Gurnevski specifically said: "Colegi, speaking from this tribune before me." I said I recognized myself as one of the colleagues who spoke from this stand before him and I felt offended and offended. The Rules say: "When there is an insult to colleagues... Here, I feel offended and offended and humiliated. Mr. Gurnevsky, if you claim to be a thief, come and say it again in this room when you say my name. Don't shake your head! Come apologize! You said I was the only one who spoke from here and Cornelia Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u60	And did you apologize?!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u61	Please do not enter into dialogue from either the hall or the stands!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u62	Mr. Ivanov, if in your circles, if at your workshops it is normal to say to each other, thieves, murderers and whatever else you want...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u63	Mr. Svilensky, here you are entering...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u64	In the National Assembly, this is an insulting and offensive word. If this is not an insult to you, but a word of praise, it is an insulting word for the Bulgarian people. Mr. Gurnevsky must come out and apologize or punish him! You don't have to read any shorthands.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u65	No, there's a need, and don't force me to...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u66	Don't tell thieves to speak out of this tribune the thief to shout, "Hold the thief."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u67	Take away his word!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u68	I'm taking her away from me. [[Down from the stands.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u69	I've already announced my decision. We'll continue with parliamentary control. Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva, Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs will answer a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin regarding the reduction of the state and the amount of remuneration of the officials in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. You have the floor, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! In December last year, Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev asked each minister to present a plan for the reduction of administration in the respective ministry. At the first meeting of the Council of Ministers this year, Prime Minister Borisov reminded the ministers that there is a plan for optimization of the state, which everyone must implement. In Mr. Borisov's first office, the budget and, respectively, the state of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs were cut shockingly. In addition, wages in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs remained some of the lowest in the state administration, and efforts to break this trend with the 2014 budget were later abandoned. In this regard, I would like to ask you, Deputy Prime Minister, do you plan cuts in the State of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, if so, how many, respectively, with what percentage of the total number of employees? How many employees at retirement age who still work at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and do you plan their retirement in response to the insistence of Prime Minister Borisov and Deputy Prime Minister Donchev? Do you intend to provide a catch-up increase in remuneration in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has a direct connection both with the motivation of the employees and with the ability of the Ministry to attract prepared young personnel? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u71	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Dear Minister, you are entitled to an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, Mr. Vigenin, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Ministry of Foreign Affairs in response to Deputy Prime Minister Donchev's letter proposed a 36-state reduction. These are the figures that were allocated in addition to the Ministry in connection with the performance of the functions for the first Bulgarian Presidency of the Council. They were relaxed because of this and after its completion there is no need for them. Two more units will be made redundant in the Ministry due to the transfer of the verification activity with the apostille of documents issued by the municipal administrations to the district administrations. In fact, two units will be transferred to the respective district administrations. In recent years, after 2010, the state of the Ministry is 1344 pieces. He's like that and hasn't been changed. We do not propose further cuts to be made outside the 38 mentioned, which were allocated to the performance of the functions of the Presidency. With regard to pension-age employees for the 2018 reported period Their number is 27. The employees who acquired the right to pension at the beginning of 2019 are 10. All of them are provided for a legal opportunity to be retired both of their own accord and at the discretion of the employer. The free numbers of those who are willing to retire, because there are also those, or those at the employer's discretion, will be filled with a common competition for an intern attack under the Diplomatic Service Act. I fully agree with you that the quality and motivation of Bulgarian diplomacy is extremely important for the performance of the duties. I agree with you that wages are a little below average compared to other ministries. We are trying to make up for this. In recent years, more money has been given through increase for the Fund. In 2016, an increase of 10% was ensured in 2017. For 2019, you know that the government has also decided on an increase and there is a funding of about 2 million. 400,000. lv. more in the Fund, so that the increase and indexing is on average 10%, as per the rules, depending on the estimates that the specific employees receive. I think I've been specific enough. I believe that we cannot offer any more numbers, as you know that an increase is required, such as the composition of the embassy in London. We have also received valid requests and inquiries, such as for revealing a consulate in Barcelona. I think that in our plan it should be included and next week will be approved by the Council of Ministers to unveil a consulate in Edinburgh. Of course, salary cannot be a major motivation, because public service wages are always lower than the private sector, but, of course, it is also necessary for civil servants to receive decent remuneration.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u73	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. Mr. Vigenin, you're entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u74	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! I'm glad you didn't plan any further cuts in the state. I think the approach is reasonable because, since the 2010 cuts, the Ministry has been operating at its minimum. I'd like to ask two additional questions. Before that, a commentary. The wages are increased according to the general percentages that are envisaged for the public administration, but this is actually increasing the scissors between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other ministries. The highest wages are in the Ministry of Finance. Some will say it's understandable, and they make the budget after all. But if you compare the salaries for corresponding positions with a number of other ministries, you will see that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is well below average. When the increase is a percentage for all, in fact in absolute value these differences increase. I think we should make a few years plan. I ask that this be changed, so that the salaries in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are ahead of the average increase in the state administration. My specific question: firstly, do you specifically intend to still approach, as Prime Minister Donchev recommended with regard to employees who are already at the age of retirement, their stay with some very valuable personnel makes sense, but still cannot work until infinity? We now have ambassadors who have long exceeded that age. Do you intend to wait for the end of their mandates to receive the right to a pension, or will you approach, reducing their term of office, opening up an opportunity for young people to enter the administration? Secondly, a more important question: would I continue to call it the humiliating practice of the employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, when they receive a foreign mandate, to be reassigned with remuneration which is significantly lower than what they received in the Central Government? The catch-up or complementary amount of remuneration from a missionary cannot be an explanation of this practice, which was imposed well before that in time, but it cannot compensate for the problem that at the end of its career diplomats, especially some of them who were more frequently on overseas mandates, eventually retired with significantly lower pensions. This, in my opinion, is humiliating for the diplomats themselves after all they've done. I would ask you, if this practice is still going on, perhaps not suddenly, but gradually within a year, two, three it will be changed so that the public administration does not apply the practices it is fighting against in private business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u76	Dear Mr Vigenin, I absolutely agree with you that no matter how much experience a person has, he should really enjoy himself, but in the end he cannot infinity take up a public service. For a reason, we have retirement cases that depend on judgment and necessity and, of course, age. There are ambassadors, for example, who are returning and they are almost 70 years old. Of course, the goal is to renew the diplomatic service. It is no coincidence that in the proposals in the rotation I have sought to propose this is a mixed procedure, it is not only up to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who have a longer horizon ahead for the first time are ambassadors and are younger people. We have unilateral terminations at the employer's request. There are those who want to retire themselves. For all available units, as I said, competitions will be announced. I'm really happy that 74 candidates came in last year at the 15-piece interns contest. We have made it possible to take another 5 in connection with the implementation of the Presidency. They were not in positions for an intern attacker, but we managed to get 5 more young people under the Labour Code to work in Bulgarian diplomacy. The assessment, of course, relates to the needs of employers or sometimes the lack of, unfortunately, the expertise of younger people in the given area. You know, you have been a minister, that there are countries and regions where really the expertise of younger people is not yet sufficiently developed and available. So an assessment is being carried out. Yes, the call of Deputy Prime Minister Donchev is right, really should be dealt with more coordinatedly, construction should be started and these numbers should be released for young people, even more so when some of them have reached their retirement age quite a few years ago, meaning they are not on the first day after their retirement age. Regarding the second question. Yes, the practice continues to be reassigned from the permanent state, so to speak, outside the state, which is abroad, of course, which has happened at your time, namely the remuneration is lower. If a diplomat has been a director, for example, and is going somewhere for an ambassador's term, we can't keep the same salary as he received as a director, because that means paying two salaries for a director plus the money for a missionary, which also comes from the tax money of our citizens. We reviewed, on my initiative, I ordered a review of the practice of other countries in terms of travel money, that is, how do remunerations in other countries be paid, not only European when it comes to a mandate...................................................................................... We have requested through our permanent representations information from other countries. The practice is different. I have no data for all countries, but I can present the analysis to you as you wish. I want to inform you that the truth is that in the Ministry, the opinion of the diplomats themselves is divided. There are those who believe that they should enter as a basic reward, and there are those who are categorically opposed, because for various reasons I think my time is up to list them. Of course, it is also a matter of budgetary opportunities. Let us not forget that the money, after all, I said, comes from the Bulgarian taxpayer and there is no way to maintain for each of the positions on two equal salaries. However, I agree with you that this affects the pensions of longstanding diplomats. Either way, the idea, the goal and the desire is for those I reassign not to be at minimum, to be above minimum wages. Indeed, in recent years there has been an increase, reassigning the outside state, so to speak, to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u77	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. The questions to you are over. My fellow Members, I would like to inform you that on the occasion of the International Day of Memory of the victims of the Holocaust, January 27th, an exhibition will be presented in the Northern foyer. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. I'll give you 20 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u78	Dear colleagues, we are continuing parliamentary control with questions to Mrs Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The first question is from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov about loans and donations received from the Bulgarian Water and Water Department. Here you are, dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear colleague Nedyalkov! Dear Minister, obviously the topic of the Water and Water is quite interesting because, as it is said, the last months of last year we are here every week, on the stand to talk about this unfortunate company. You know it's in an extremely difficult financial condition. The water supply offers the most expensive service as a cost of water and respectively the lowest quality of drinking water available in Bulgaria at the moment. A few weeks ago in the media space, information about the withdrawn loans from the water company began to be drawn, about donations received. In this regard, I ask the question to which I hope to receive a precise and comprehensive answer, because all residents of Shumen Municipality are interested in this topic. Please answer me: have loans been taken in 2018 by the water supply company Shumen? On what grounds, with what motives and with what desired effect was this done? I ask you to answer me and have you received donations from Shoumen, from whom, on what grounds, with what motives and with what desired effect has this been done? Also, are my answers planned for 2019 new loans from the water company? I hope that the answer will be really accurate and comprehensive because, you know, every obligation of the water company affects inevitably the cost of its service, its financial situation. Most of all, if there are such loans taken, on whom will the burden mainly fall for the return of these loans, because most likely they should be calculated somewhere? If this is the price of water, please answer me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u80	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u81	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ivanov, Members of the National Assembly! In 2018, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. A procedure for selecting a contractor for the provision of financial services by financial and credit institutions within the meaning of the Credit Institutions Act on the grounds of art. 13b of the Rules of Procedure for the exercise of the rights of the State in commercial companies with State participation in capital. A contract has been signed with the Bulgarian Development Bank (Bulgarian Development Bank) and a loan for working needs of 2,500 million has been granted. lv. The same target is spent to extend the obligation of the water service operator to the "Energy Market" JSC. The company is obliged to pay legal interest for a period determined under the Decree of the Council of Ministers of 29 May 2012, which is 10%. The high monthly repayments in the order of 170 to 230 thousand. lv. and the short period of their debt to the electricity supplier has imposed the conclusion of the credit agreement concerned. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 300000000. Therefore, the concluded bank loan contract has a double lower annual interest rate than the legal default interest that would have been due to the electricity supplier. The choice of a bank to provide the credit was made after several times published on the website of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works invitation to choose a financial institution for the provision of financial services for the needs of the Bulgarian Development Bank and only the Bulgarian Development Bank has made an offer for its provision. The granting of the loan aims to allow Vic. Shumen, to manage more effectively his other financial flows, including to meet his current payments for debts to employees, suppliers and other creditors. At present, the Water and Water Network has an approved business plan for the current five-year regulatory period and annual objectives to be achieved, which is why providing the necessary cash flows for operational activity is an essential condition for their implementation. "Water and sewerage" does not provide for an application for new loans, excluding the need to provide funds for co-financing needed for application under the procedure of Operational Programme "Environment 2014" " 2020" with a view to implementing investment projects in water supply and sewerage infrastructure, public state and public municipal property. With regard to the issue concerning received donations from the Bulgarian water supply company Shumen Ltd., I inform you that in recent years the company has not accepted donations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u82	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. Dear Mr. Ivanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, honourable Members! Unfortunately, not only my own, but also the public of the Shumen district confirmed the concerns that the Water and Waters have entered a new cycle of financial relations, for which I have never received an answer from you who will finally pay the bill. I hope the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works isn't the only thing that hasn't understood that there is a serious problem in Water and Water. It is called decapitalisation of the company. If this company continues at the same pace not to be able to collect the debts, because from your response we understand that these funds are going to pay current electricity bills, to pay employees' wages and other current costs, this means that this water service company has virtually fallen into insolvency. If you do not know, Madam Minister, your predecessor here, from this tribune, informed us that the water company is being investigated by the National Investigation Service for such loans taken in a previous period, taken then for a vague investment purpose. If you do not know, let me inform you that the same company, for the actions of its management, has been given, according to a letter from the State Agency of National Security, to the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. Obviously, there, in addition to the current activity of water supply, are also committed crimes. If you don't know, take some action in that direction. Accept our extreme concern? mine and on behalf of the citizens of Shumen that things are going in the direction of maybe bankrupting this company and selling to someone. Here are the place and role of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, as the principal of the company, to make sure that this does not happen. I don't know what else has to happen to find out there's a problem. As Prime Minister Borisov told you, apparently the red lamp that lights up there hasn't given you enough light and you should already have the blue light. Because in other institutions, the blue light has turned on. I want you to answer me, if, of course, you decide to make a duplicate, who will eventually pay this loan, whose pocket will come out of some unknown debtor or those who pay the bills of the water service, Shumen, i.e. the users of the service? After all, how much longer do we have to wait for this company's management to be replaced? When will the competition be, when is its deadline and so on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Minister, you're right, but you don't have to do the doppelganger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, I understand your concern about the state of the water company. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, as a principal, also has some concerns about the work and condition of some of the water companies in Bulgaria. I just want to make a point. What I said a moment ago was that the company took credit at double the interest rate to pay overdue charges for el. energy that has twice the interest on default. This is a possible version of management to reduce the loss of the company. I believe that both I and you agree that this is a good approach. The other way in which the company is trying to collect old debts, you are probably familiar because I see that you are seriously interested in the state of this water company, and on 22 January the obligations for electricity. energy is 292 thousand. BGN, as of December 31, the current were 742 thousand. As of June 2018, BGN and as of June 2018, it was 2 million. Nine hundred and ninety-three What I'm trying to tell you is that they're reducing their electrical obligations. energy and a breath of air is given to the company itself so that it can regularly pay off other obligations as to the employees of the company. In fact, the measures taken to collect old debts result in a result evident from the collected funds for which the company has endeavoured to collect in different ways: through a working group that collects claims; sending letters; telephone calls. Most of those who had obligations to the company have fully paid their debts thanks to those measures that have been taken. So we continue to monitor the condition of the water company and to make sure that it is stabilized and that the citizens of Shumen receive a good water service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u86	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. The next question to you is again by the MP Ivan Ivanov regarding payment of wine fees by the residents of the quarter. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man "Mutnitsa" Municipality, Shumen municipality. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Madam Minister, just one note from the previous question. For your information, currently, mass companies are borrowing at an annual rate of 2%. The water company obviously does not fit into this category and takes it twice as expensive 4.5%. That's what you said, and I recorded it. I'll get to the next question. We know that there is a new policy of the government regarding the payment of tolls and the introduction of the so-called bill of lading. As a result, Decision No 959 of the Council of Ministers of 31 December 2018, with which two districts of the city of Shumen have not yet paid such wine fees for some reason or other reason, I hope you will answer me what, because for me the obvious answer is: because they are neighborhoods of the city of Shumen and it is appropriate that the residents of these neighborhoods do not pay, but with this decision of the Council of Ministers will already pay wine fees. Perhaps there is an expectation that the residents of the other neighborhoods of Shumen will start paying wine fees. Because I remember that the Prime Minister and you, a district of Sofia, which is, for example, quite far away, called Bankya, does not pay wine fees, but two districts that are, one within 1 km, the other within 5 km, not 5 km, to pay wine fees. Please give me an answer as to what were the reasons for the introduction of wine charges for the travelers from and for the square. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man shumen municipality's Mutnitsa? Have they bought travelers from and to these neighborhoods wine stickers until 31 December 2018? People's discontent is understandable. In this regard, I ask you to answer me what will you, as minister of the press, do to resolve this unpleasant situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u88	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! According to Decision No 945 of the Council of Ministers of 2004, a list of Republican roads was established for which a fee for use of road infrastructure was collected. Republican Road Ι-2 with Romania border "Ruse" "King Kaloyan "Razgrad" "Shoumen" "Devnya" "Varna" and Republican Road ΙΙΙΙ 7003 Dulovo "Shoumen" are included in this list. The fee for use of road infrastructure shall not be paid for all sections of the Republican roads falling within the boundaries of the urbanised territories permanently marked with signs D11 Specifically, your question. For crossing the above-mentioned roads until 31 December 2018, payment of a fee was also required. Decision No 959 of 31 December 2018 repealed Decision No 945 and established a new list of the Republican road network for which a wine levy is collected. The two Republican roads mentioned above are again included in this established list. In other words, the Republican roads that you refer to have always been within the scope of the wine-charged network. Another question is whether people bought wine. Probably yes, and they were regular or not. The fee for the use of road infrastructure is not paid, as I have already mentioned, when there are permanently marked signs. I note that the boundaries of the settlements are determined by the respective municipality and their change also depends on the municipality. In this sense, if the municipality places the signs D12 and D11 for the town of Krajs and Kryszds, which, in so far as I have not seen, is outside the borders of these settlements, the districts of Shumen, then they will fall within the boundaries of the settlement as neighborhoods, the borders of urbanized territories, which, as far as I have not seen, but I know that in the verification it has been established that in the General Development Plan of Shumen since 2011, they are actually included in the settlement. This suggests that these characters "D11" and "D12" should be placed after these settlements. In this case, 1 km from the Republican road to the town of Makak and 10 km from the Republican road to the town of Mutnitsa will be within the boundaries of the village. If this happens and if the municipality decides to put these signs after the neighborhoods, then we should not charge with a road toll or the so-called "wine fee" all who pass on them, whether they live in the neighborhoods or travel on this road and are from other parts of Bulgaria. In this case, the maintenance of the road within the locality, these 1 and 10 km, are maintained under an agreement between the municipality and the Road Infrastructure Agency. After the repeated talks with the mayor of Shumen and his insisting that these road sections should be released from a wine fee, I expect the decision of the municipal council, I expect the change of the town. The Road Infrastructure Agency will comply with what the municipality takes as a decision. If they move the road signs to the end of the settlement after these two neighborhoods, then we will proceed to discuss an agreement on the maintenance of these two roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u90	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u91	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Madam Minister, obviously, by the end of 2018, for one reason or another, no wine charge has been paid for these sections, for which you can answer me why this happened. You claim that it had to be paid, but obviously it wasn't paid, because after the introduction of these sections now, with the new decree, in this road structure, for which wine stickers should be paid, people have gone out to protest, closing the road, dissatisfaction, because they claim that no road toll has been paid up to now. If anyone has committed a violation, please take responsibility for it. Otherwise, the question remains, what was the reason for it, or if someone didn't do their job, or indeed those participants were exempt from paying tolls. You said: yes, it is so in the last decree of the Council of Ministers that where it is marked by these signs,.................... and D12............................................................ The question of road maintenance remains open who will pay for the maintenance of these road sections if they actually enter the area. To note that until today and before 2018, and 2004, these neighborhoods have always been part of the locality of Shumen. They're neighborhoods of the town of Shumen. Something's probably happened over the years, but I need you to explain it to me. I have received a written reply from you that the maintenance of the two units on an annual basis is over 500 thousand. lv. Whose account will this support be for if the Municipal Council of Shumen decides to place the signposts for these two divisions? Then I'm going to ask you in writing to break down exactly what goes into that 500 thousand. lv. For those 10 kilometers that are? Because I believe that for 10 km of road maintenance 500 thousand. lv. It's a pretty large sum, but I assume you'll argue. Please answer me on whose account will be the payment of those on your account, 500,000. lv. annual maintenance of roads if these areas enter within the locality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, whether the citizens of Shumen who live in these neighborhoods have paid a wine fee, neither I nor you can prove it for sure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u94	They're protesting!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u95	They were in the hypothesis of paying a wine fee and I believe that a very large part of them had wineries and were traveling on these sections, as well as all the others who used this section of the Republican road network were fine. This is already a practice suppose all municipalities that have on the territory of the locality crossing the Republican road, enter into an agreement with the Road Infrastructure Agency and deal with the way these roads are maintained. Municipalities are included in this support. If signs change and the settlement is put to an end after these two districts, the Road Infrastructure Agency and Shumen Municipality will discuss the options for the maintenance of this road, so that the Road Infrastructure Agency and the municipality will participate in this support. You understand that this is the fair way because the Road Infrastructure Agency will deprive itself of this fee for a Republican road network that requires support and the municipality, in turn, must take part of this maintenance. Such an agreement will be signed if the municipality decides to move these two signs. The answer we have given you for maintenance is described for what activities are the funds that are visible, so there are detailed activities there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u96	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. We are going to the next question to you from the National Representative Georgi Gokov about the state of operation and the need for repairs and deadlines for their implementation on a third-class road, part of the Republican Road Network of Bulgaria, III-5007. Here you are, dear Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! Madam Minister, the question I am asking you is not original, even on the contrary, even banal, annoying, old-fashioned and, whatever else you say, will still be true of the questions of this type. The questions we ask you and your colleagues about repairing roads are dictated by the fact that the people who visit our reception rooms, in this case, those whom I organize as a Member of the National Assembly in the Twenty-Seventh Multi-Municipal Election Region, put them in front of me and my colleagues. In the context of the uniform and, for the most part, negative answers to such questions about the state and repair of Republican roads in various parts of the country that we receive, this question is unnecessary, but the people in the areas concerned who pay the wine taxes in good faith, although you doubt whether they are paid or not, and that we cannot determine whether they have paid them, but they are interested in why their roads are in poor operating condition and the money is not enough to repair them. In this case, I'm asking you a question about a third-class Republican road. This is the road through the Old Zagora villages of Yagoda That question was put to me on the air at one of my local television appearances. I mean, people are interested in their ways. In this regard, please provide me with up-to-date information on the state of this third-class Republican road and answer the following questions: is there a project ready to repair and rehabilitate the road in question? Is it included in the Agency's repair programme? Provided that it is not included in the repair programme of the Agency.. Road Infrastructure for 2019, in what time horizons will it have the necessary rehabilitation and repair and when will the residents and guests of the villages of the region have the opportunity to travel on normal roads, including on this renovated third-class road? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Gokov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Gokov, I will start by saying that your question is not banal, it is not worn out, but while one of the answers has to explain why revenue is required in the " Road Infrastructure" Agency, in the other I have to explain why there is not enough to repair the Republican road network. Actually, I said I'm sure people are regular and pay wine fees. To the essence of your question is also my answer. Third-class road III-5007 "Jagoda" "Konare" is 36 km long and about 32 km from them are in Stara Zagora district and the rest in Sliven district. The section in Sliven region is regularly patched up, part of it falls into the urbanized territory of the town of Tvarditsa and in this section the maintenance of the road is the commitment of the municipality, which takes care according to a negotiated protocol between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Municipality of Tvarditsa for joint financing of the maintenance of Republican roads in the urbanized territory of Tvarditsa in 2019. In poor condition is the section of the third-class road in Stara Zagora region, with the most damaged transport-service qualities being the section between the settlements of Yagoda and Zimnitsa with a length of about 8 km. In order to improve part of its situation this year, the Agency has provided 630 thousand. lv. Re-asphalting will be carried out along the entire length of a stretch about 2 km long between the specified settlements. The activity is assigned under current maintenance and will be implemented in the event of favourable weather conditions with a view to meeting technological repair requirements. For complete repair of road III-5007 there is no ready project. A specific commitment to repair the road at this stage cannot be made, as the Agency's Investment Programme "Travel Infrastructure" for 2019 is in the process of preparing and validating. According to estimates of experts for a complete repair of this road, nearly 11 million are needed. BGN, as necessary and preparation of technical design documentation. Once the financial framework of the API repair programmes has been established this year, the possibilities for design and financial provision of the repair of this third-class road will also be considered. The API shall endeavour to ensure the safety of movement in the area with the methods and means of ongoing maintenance and in the period 2017 - 2018 are implemented such activities for patching the pavement, alignment of banquets, landscape events and others. I assure you that until the complete repair of the road is completed, the Agency will continue to take the necessary care to maintain and ensure the safety of its passengers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u100	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Mr. Gokov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. What you said, I personally take it as an answer. By the way, I'm going to do a very careful review of the stenogram to see exactly what you took as a commitment. I quickly realized that there was an insurance for this year 630,000. lv. For rehabilitation and road repair. For a complete repair, the money is currently unable for the Road Infrastructure Agency. BGN, which is a pretty serious amount. I will accept your answer, hopefully accept it and the people who live in these villages. I'd like to think a little bit about the wine taxi. Do you see injustice in them? In a small village, people pay their bill regularly and, firstly, they are in much more restricted space than those living in a large city can drive without buying wine. Paying this wine, because inevitably in these small areas where they can drive without wine, and they have to enter a republican road and pay, for which payment of a wine charge is necessary, they face these roads in bad condition, to put it mildly. Perhaps it is not important so much for many of the people living even in the region of Stara Zagora and Bulgaria, just this time Yagoda and on to Tvarditsa throughout all the villages, but for those people who live in these eight villages, it is extremely important to have a good path. I'd be grateful, I guess, and people would be if at least those 630,000 were used up as soon as possible and rehabilitated the road so they couldn't at least break their cars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Dear Minister, there are no further questions for you. We move on to the questions of Mr. Mladen Marinov, Minister of the Interior. There is one question for him by the MPs Georgi Gokov and Philip Popov about crime and police presence in the village of Dinkovo.. Ruzhintsi municipality, Vidin district. Here you are, Mr. Popov, to present the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, our question is about crime and police presence in the village of Dinkovo, Ruzhintsi municipality. Public knowledge became the problems of this village of Vidi. The woes of the villagers are great, as they themselves claim to live in fear and sleep with axes and knives to their heads because of the many robberies. An example in this regard. The last crime occurred the second day after Christmas when an elderly man was attacked and robbed every penny. The guy himself lives in extreme poverty, and this is the fifth robbery, I repeat, the fifth robbery in his home in just the last month. The residents of the village of Dinkovo are about 60 people, mostly elderly people, and most of them are also victims of raids of thieves and robbers. They're forced to barricade their doors and windows and rely on the requests they're asking for not to be next. The mayor of the village has raised his hands and is powerless to deal with the problem, and it is hardly his job and duty to deal with robberies, thefts and robberies, even domestic crime. One report on a national television report claims that the last robbery was discovered and two uncondicted 18-year-olds were caught who confessed to the robbery, but in all likelihood will be sentenced conditionally. Dear Minister, you are aware that the village of Dinkovo is only one example. It is not only a Bulgarian village in this situation. In the same situation are most of the Bulgarian villages. In view of this picture, which I have described, at the same time, in the main priorities for the management of the current majority and the government in the management programme for the period 2017 - 2021, serious intentions have been made to deal with domestic crime. In this chapter, which is named Public Order and Security, it is written: "Police presence in every locality, territorial redistribution of personnel resources in order to increase uniform police staff in small and medium-sized towns. This is a commitment, it is a promise of GERB party in its election platform. It's 2019 now, it's a completely different picture and it's ugly and it's what I described. In this regard, I ask your answer for the following: what is the police presence in the village of Dinkovo What measures has the Ministry of Interior taken to reduce crime on the territory of the village and are they effective? What is the number of crimes committed on the territory of the village and what is their detection rate? In other words, I could rephrase and summarize: when will the blue lamp turn on in the village of Dinkovo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Dear Mr. Marinov, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u105	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Mr. Gokov and Mr. Popov! The policy on countering and prevention of conventional crime is defined as a priority in the Management Program of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021. The sustained results in terms of the increase in the detection of registered crimes and their reduction in number represent a long-term goal for the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. Therefore, concrete measures are being taken aimed at optimizing activities, improving the personnel and resource provision of the office, strengthening the interaction with local authorities and other institutions involved, strengthening cooperation with private security companies and citizens, discussing opportunities for interaction, as well as problems related to the specifics of the areas concerned. In order to improve the organisation of work and increase efficiency in the fight against conventional crime, the Ministry of Interior is working on an established plan to counter conventional crime in settlements where there is no permanent police presence. A permanent team of senior officials has also been established to ensure coordination, control and interaction between police structures in the country. In all district directorates are formed mobile teams of security, criminal and economic police officers who visit small settlements. The aim is to meet representatives of local authorities and citizens for feedback concerning the state of public order and crime in these settlements. In 2018, nearly eight thousand visits were made in over five thousand villages without a permanent police presence, some of them being visited more than once. More than 1500 signals have been received and 39% of them require a response from other institutions and have been forwarded to the competent authorities, while others refer to the Ministry of Interior's actions. The signals of competence of the Ministry of Interior are mainly related to violations of the Law on Road Traffic and Public Order, including destruction and damage of property, violation of the night silence, interneighborly conflicts, reported thefts, illegal logging, fraud, illegal connection to the electricity network and others. In 2018, mobile teams visited 146 small settlements in Vidin district. 172 meetings were held at which 40 signals were received, 50% of them are of the competence of other institutions. In the last quarter of 2018 alone, 11 mobile teams of police officers have been formed, which, according to established schedules, visited a total of 32 small and remote settlements on the territory of Vidin district. 38 meetings were held with the mayors and residents, where two alerts were received for crimes committed in the villages of Toshevtsi, Gramada municipality and the village of Varbovchec, Belogradchik municipality, respectively for systematic harassment by a relative and a mentally ill person. Since the beginning of October 2018, an organization has been established for visiting the settlements and from teams of the Gendarmeria Directorate to improve the prevention and countering of domestic crime. By January 15, this year, more than 12,000 settlements were visited throughout the country. In Vidin region, the visited settlements were a total of 384. The Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Vidin published on its website information about regular meetings with the local population, held by both employees of the regional directorate and the head of the regional management "Belogradchik." Specifically for the village of Dinkovo, it is part of the municipality of Ruzhintsi and is served by the police department of Ruzhintsi, to the District Department of Belogradchik, with five police officers responsible for ten small towns and a total of four thousand inhabitants. In 2018, 52 joint specialized operations were carried out on the territory of Belogradchik District Management with employees of Zona gendarmerie management. Joint operations are also being carried out with employees of the Road Police Department, Belogradchik District Department, and the Regional Forest Directorate of Belogradchik. Patrol and post work has been strengthened by officers of Belogradchik District Department, and the police inspector responsible for the settlement visits him under the internal regulations. On 28 December 2018 on Nova TV reporting on a domestic crime in the village of Dinkovo, Ruzhintsi Municipality, a reference was made, indicating that a total of nine alerts for crimes committed on the territory of the village were registered for the period from 1 January 2018 to 11 January 2019. Four of the registered crimes have been solved, two have been terminated, and in one case it is not a domestic crime. Three of the crimes continue the investigation. Specifically on the reported case of an assaulted and robbed adult inhabitant of the village, the perpetrators were immediately exposed and sentenced. The persons concerned are the perpetrators of two more thefts by the same elderly man for whom pre-trial proceedings have been initiated and are to be brought to justice as defendants. All the belongings and money that the victim has been subjected to are found and recovered to the victim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u106	Thank you, Mr. Marinov. Here you are, dear Mr. Gokov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! Mr. Minister of the Interior, I believe you are an exceptional professional. I've had the opportunity to observe your actions during police operations, and I think you're doing very well, but now you have to answer questions politically. I'm sure you don't like the situation of domestic crime in the country, but I don't know how much political will there is to deal with domestic crime. Now I will not analyze the answer, but we will read it carefully, because at such times, when it is answered, many things are missed, and we have received a lot of information about the village of Dinkovo and the region of Vidin. But I was impressed with one thing. In the end, you told me that there were nine signals in about one month in the period I took it so quickly, and at the same time there were 8,000 visits last year. I didn't understand how many villages, but I remembered that several villages were visited more than once, which means that most of them were visited once. Nine signals in one month and one visit a year, it's a little weird how we're gonna deal with this domestic crime. Excuse me, but I will tell you that the answer contains very many statistics and few intentions to deal with the problem or views on how to deal with the problem. I and my colleague Philip Popov wanted you to tell us more about the effectiveness of the actions of the Ministry of Interior in these small settlements. Because you understand that the reason for the issue is the village of Dinkovo, but as the village of Dinkovo in Bulgaria are almost two thirds of the villages. I may overdo it a little bit, but it's a very large amount of villages that are in the same position as the village of Dinkovo. We ask this question not to pick on the Ministry of Interior or you as a minister, but rather to direct you and to pay attention to the problems of the Bulgarian villages that it is high time now would sound very political, but to turn on the red lamp and take you to perform from the platform with which the political party GERB appeared in the elections, promises of police presence in the villages and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, will you take advantage of your right to dodge? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u109	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Gokov, first of all, I would like to thank you for assessing my professional qualities. On the issues you've asked. You have probably not noticed that the period for these nine alerts concerns 1 January 2018. "January 11, 2019, we are talking about a year and a month. With regard to the figures, perhaps I should clarify that in most of the settlements there is a constant police presence which is expressed in the respective police stations, districts, police and junior police inspectors who permanently serve this territory. The work of these mobile teams is to visit the small settlements of the specific village in order to obtain objective information from both the mayors of these settlements and citizens and to receive this information directly from employees of the district directorate. A kind of lensing of the information we are getting from the regional inspectors, and thus we are giving the stands to citizens to express all their concerns so that we can plan follow-up actions. On the basis of the visits and analysis of the signals, we also plan the operations that we mainly carry out with the Gendarmerie Directorate, as a structure which was created for precisely such a purpose.. to react where there are clearly more serious problems outlined. With regard to the long-term policy of countering domestic crime. I am convinced that we are making extraordinary efforts, we have political support and will, it is expressed in both the funds allocated to the assembly of police staff and the funds allocated to the purchase of new cars, computers, equipment. Various public procurements are under way, which will strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Interior. Statistics point out that in 2018, we have nearly 11% reduction in the thefts committed by this type and an increase in the detection of these crimes. There are settlements where the environment has changed quite a bit. There are settlements in Pleven, you know that years ago there were serious problems with this crime, so at the moment all these perpetrators are in prison. We're reading zero crime for given settlements. Naturally, this should not soothe us, as this is a constant process, and the pressure must be constant in order to achieve a positive trend. I think in the last two years, this trend has been there. I hope with the effort to establish and work. I'm not saying we've done all the work, but this is a problem that is not ultimately related to the activities of the Ministry of Interior alone. This is precisely why I am actively holding meetings with the mayors of settlements, as they under the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration have public order obligations, even in some cases they have authority over the authorities of the Ministry of Interior when it comes to protecting public order. So we are looking for dialogue and I think that with only such dialogue, clearly outline the problems and effective use of the forces, we can achieve a result. Of course, it's hard to have a constant police presence in every small place. That is why we take this flexible approach to respond to the most pressing problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u110	Thank you, Mr. Marinov. There are no more questions for you. Before we proceed to the questions to Mr. Neno Dimov, Minister of Environment and Water, I would like to tell you that, above all, out of respect for Bulgarian citizens who are looking at us, but no less than respect for those who ask and answer questions, I have not allowed myself to interrupt anyone, but we still have some rules and at least not to double and triple the leap of time. I want to ask you to try to be strict, I won't interrupt anyone. There is a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov regarding the environmental control of the registered 13 sites for disposal of animal by-products in the country. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! According to the current information from the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, 13 sites for disposal of animal by-products in the country were registered at the end of 2018. As of 22 October 2018, the payments from the budget of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency to two of the companies with permits amounted to 11 million. 243 thousand. £963. In your written reply, which we received with Professor Bachvarova, from 12 December 2018 only one company that works on the territory of Stara Zagora district has been reported to check signals. No information has been provided for the other sites carrying out the activity concerned and having authorisations. If your ministry does not know, we have a written reply from Minister Porozhanov, which describes the 13 sites and where they are located. In this regard, we are asking today a question which is as follows: are they included in the system of environmental control to meet environmental requirements, mobile incinerators who are authorised to carry out animal waste disposal activities? Does the Ministry of Environment and Water have procedures for regular reporting of environmental indicators, especially by mobile incinerators and their provision to the competent authorities that have registered sites under art. Art. 259, Art. 259a of the Animal Health Act?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u112	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Dimov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u113	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, Dear Mr. Ivanov! With regard to your question, I inform you that, as regards the new notification of an investment proposal for a mobile combustion plant for animal carcasses within the meaning of Regulation EC 1069/2009, the Ministry of Environment and Water has informed the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and, in particular, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency for the Regulatory Requirements of the Environment, to which the deployment and operation of such installations must comply. The criteria for the operation of the plants for the incineration of animal carcasses are set out in order to assess the need to carry out an environmental impact assessment, as well as the capacity for a complex permit under the Law on the Protection of the Environment. Guidelines have also been sent with regard to the requirements of waste management legislation. In view of the legislation on the protection of ambient air, the cases where such mobile installations are subject to the requirements on the order and method of measuring emissions for harmful substances emitted in the ambient air from objects with stationary sources, as well as for the control measurements which need to be carried out also in the case of the mobility of installations. Given the specifics of the process, the contracting authority is required to carry out its own periodic measurements or its own continuous measurements of emissions of harmful substances released into the ambient air. Regional environmental and water inspections highlight the need to carry out strict controls on the species and burns of animal by-products. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, as you yourself have noted, is the body responsible for the Veterinary Activity Act and owes to notify the Regional Environmental Inspection, on whose territory a mobile installation is intended to operate prior to the start of the activity of the specific site. In fact, information about the 13 sites that you mentioned, I can ask the Parliamentary Secretary at the moment, I am unable to give, prepare and hand over to you in the coming days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u114	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimov. For a line, Mrs. Bachvarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u115	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen ministers! I'm personally concerned about the answer we received because this is the third time we've asked questions about incinerators and the burning of animal corpses. Thirteen are the sites, of which the two erasers have not worked since February 2018. Annually in Bulgaria between 12 and 14 thousand tonnes of animal waste is destroyed. The whole activity has been transferred to the incinerators, respectively they are mobile, there are requirements for them, but the Minister of Agriculture says that air cleanliness controls are at the Ministry of Environment and Water and there is no evidence of air pollution. The dirty air in large cities does not, probably does not report, the activity of the incinerators, but again in these regulations it is written that incinerators, especially for animal carcasses, are only used for the local prevention of disease, not to ensure the overall activity of disposal of animal waste. The additional questions we have for you, and I ask you, if not now, at the next moment, to provide us with information, is an environmental impact assessment still required? I didn't get that from your answer. For example, I can give that for mobile dairys that hardly pollute the environment, a basic requirement is that they have an environmental impact assessment. Secondly, are purification facilities required to have these facilities? In the technical documentation, which the Food Agency is most likely unable to handle, there should be experts from the Ministry of Environment and Water who can assess this documentation. Third, is the technical specification also subject to control from the point of view of wear of these equipment? For the simple reason that, as my colleague said, 11 million. lv. have been paid within seven-eight months, 12 thousand tons of carcasses of animals have been destroyed and these facilities have some suitability, some hours when they can work without waste. These issues are important because if we go in this direction to neglect the problem, to neglect the fact that this ash, which is produced, should then in a special order be stored and carried out, it seems to me that all other measures that can be taken in terms of air will have a limited impact and a limited result for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u116	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Dear Minister, please come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u117	Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman! To be as correct as possible in the answer, we need to divide the things we have competence for and the things we don't have. If we're talking about wear, if we're talking about this money that you mentioned and the volume, it's not something that we have as information that I might comment on. You have concluded with an important question.. what happens to what is left of the burning, there these mobile stations must have contracts with relevant operators of receiving waste that are entitled to accept this type of waste. I mean, it's something that's controlled. However, when we are talking about the most general question that you have asked about whether they are subject to an environmental impact assessment or not, I do not think that anyone dealing with this can distinguish between Annex 1 and Annex 2 of the Environmental Protection Act, which say which sites are subject to mandatory EIAs and which are not subject to such EIAs. The specificity of mobile stations, e.g. with the treatment facilities, is that their goal is to go from place to place to solve the problem on site, and to be moved elsewhere. If they're running this series, then there should be no problem. The fact is that you probably refer to cases where they stand too long, but, unfortunately, there is no clear definition and clear distinction when a mobile station becomes stationary, because in order to be stationary, there must be an MRI, and when there is no MRI, it counts mobile. Here perhaps we really need to think about how to define exactly how long the stay for mobility means and how much not. This is something for which, as a matter of fact, we are trying to find a reasonable solution, but it is difficult from the point of view that when there is no MRI, by definition it is mobile and counts respectively as such and passes by another criterion very different from what you said, and you are completely right for the stationary, which go by very clear procedures. So we understand the question and we continue to follow it. I will ask the Parliamentary Secretary to provide you with accurate information on all the inquiries. I rather understood the issue of the particular case that you have, and will provide you with this information within the next week. You don't have to ask me a written question, I'll make sure the answer comes to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u118	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to you is from the MP Milko Nedyalkov on the implementation of the project Eco-friendly disposal of end-of-life pesticides and other plant protection products with an expired expiry date. Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Minister! This issue has been exciting for a long time the society in Bulgaria. Several attempts have been made to solve it. In the past, we also remember the preservation of these obsolete pesticides and other preparations in BBB cubes and so on, but with the signing of the Agreement with the Swiss Confederation, at least I believe that this issue can be resolved. I'd like to introduce an amendment that it's a public procurement for 215 warehouses, not 216, as I wrote. 4388 tonnes must be defused, the country is divided into six regions, there are two winning companies in three regions where they should have already started the disposal of these dangerous, obsolete pesticides and other preparations. My question to you is this, Mr. Minister: will the final deadline for the implementation of the Project be respected, which should lead to a reduction in the health risk of more than 2 million and 250,000 citizens living in the areas where there are such warehouses where these warehouses are? Also, since this deadline has already been delayed several times, it has been 31 May 2019, now it is 7 December this year, my question is: how are the performers of the project's main activities selected and do they have the capacity for its quality implementation? We ourselves know that the project provides for repackaging, temporary storage, export for disposal and final destruction of these hazardous pesticides and other substances that have been poisoning the country for 30 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u120	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Come in for an answer, dear Mr. Dimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u121	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nedyalkov, as you yourself said, the project aims at environmentally friendly disposal of more than 4388 tonnes The total number of municipalities on whose territory these warehouses are located is 135. The value of the project is 23.4 million. Swiss francs. The implementation started with the signing of the financing contract on 21 April 2015 and was expected to end on 31 May 2019, but in the award process it was delayed due to repeated appeals by the participants in the procurement procedures. I have therefore taken action to extend the deadline and to complete the project activities, and I have held numerous meetings, including at a political level, where I have agreed with the Swiss country on the possible extension of the deadline, which is until 7 December 2019, and naturally on the first question you have asked me, we will do our best to complete this project within this deadline by 7 December. I'll tell you in a minute why I have the belief that we will meet this deadline. The main activities of the project were awarded by the award of a contract with the subject of a contract for repackaging, transport, transmission for final disposal and cleaning of warehouses containing persistent organic pollutants and pesticides, hazardous waste, non-hazardous waste and other plant protection products with a total of six lots of 29,6 million. lv. excluding VAT. Public procurement is awarded in a transparent and competitive manner, namely through an open procedure under the Public Procurement Act, and all documents from the selection of contractors are published and accessible on the profile of the buyer POSO. The performer of three of the holding positions is the association of the DZD "Project "Pesticides 2019" with leading partner "Tredy" AD, part of the French group "Sash". For the other three positions, the performer is a consortium of the Indecosaf DZDC with the leading partner of the Croatian Ind-Eko. Pesticides will be defused in incinerators in Switzerland and France under the highest environmental standards. The performers are leading companies in the industry with great experience and implemented many similar projects on an international scale, which is a guarantee of the quality and safe elimination of the effects due to the disposal of unused pesticides. On 27 September 2018, two contracts under lots with number 2 and 3 were concluded. Again, because of an appeal against the contracting authority's decision to appoint a contractor in the divisions 1, 4, 5 and 6 contracts were concluded with the contractors... In fact, the conclusion of the contracts was delayed until November and these contracts were concluded on 10 November after prior implementation was given the opportunity. On 9 January, the Supreme Administrative Court issued a decision rejecting the appeal of the participant and leaving the contracting authority's decision on the selection, so that the six positions had already started. So I hope that within the 7th of December... By the way, I will just say that for the notification procedures of the countries through which it is to be passed, and so on, they are also underway, so they are activated on all lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u122	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mr. Nedyalkov, a line please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u123	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! Let us bring with this response really and comfort to much of the indwelling that lives near these warehouses, crowded with unfit pesticides and other chemicals for more than 30 years. I would like to say that it may be necessary, with the assistance of the regional governors who are also listed in the contracts, to make a more constructive timetable so that those warehouses containing the greatest danger can be cleaned first. For example, on the territory of the area from which I am from are one tenth of the warehouses that are in the public procurement, 24 "25 warehouses in the main and 10 more in the reserve. There are warehouses of substances, for example in Karlukovo, Lukovitsko Perhaps with the assistance and, above all, with the organisation that the Ministry of Environment and Water and Regional Managers needs to implement, procedures should be accelerated in order for these warehouses to really be cleaned and eradicated unfit pesticides at a convenient time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u124	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. There's not gonna be a duvet. There are no more questions for you. We move on to the only and final question for today to Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, who will answer a question of the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Zhelyo Boychev about the state of the dams operated by NEK EAD. Here you are, dear Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Petkova, as Minister, you must guarantee the country's electricity security. The large hydropower plants under the management of the National Electric Company are one of the main elements of the system. You know that once again, my colleague Ermenkov and I are putting this question to you. Unfortunately, we have also seen, in the past year, not very logical management decisions in this sector. I am referring to the fact that during the summer period electricity production was suspended from the so-called US power plants and, on the other hand, consumption was compensated for the production of electricity from the hydroelectric power plants of the National Electricity Company, which led to the discharge of the dams. As of today, as of this month, it can be said that the dam is almost at the level of 1100 "Dospat" from 1186 to 1186; "Tsakov kamone" from 670 to 671 at the moment; "Vosta" from 520 to 516, here we are even below the lowest working level; "Krichim" is in similar condition. In a word, the water reserves of the dams for the production of electricity can hardly be used. According to my information, your colleague Minister Dimov, who just left the Chamber, has issued a number of decrees and acts in which violations have been found to use the dams on the schedule that validates, you know, the Ministry of Environment and Water. Our question with colleague Ermenkov to you is: please provide us with information about the state of the dams that are managed and managed by NEK, and what is your assessment of the management of these water resources? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, dear Mr. Ermenkov, thank you for the question. It's up-to-date, and it's timely in view of the metrology environment we're looking at right now. Mr. Boychev, you've moved the subject a little bit, perhaps on the question asked, or rather expanded it. It is related to the production of electricity from hydropower plants, while the question being formulated is: what is the current state of the dams operated by the National Electricity Company, and in particular by the company.. I will say what the momentary state is, and perhaps then in a line I will further develop the question that you have asked. To the specific question: The National Electric Company through its enterprise.. Dams and stunts.................................... and manages 19 complex and significant dams that have national significance. An enterprise of the National Electric Company and performs the technical operation, maintenance and repair of 41 dams and levellings, and hydrotechnical facilities to them, ensuring the collection of water, its storage and its submission to various consumers. In accordance with the regulatory procedure, spring and autumn technical examinations of all hydrotechnical equipment shall be carried out each year and the necessary tests shall be carried out accordingly. On the basis of the results of these technical examinations carried out in the previous year, production programmes of the National Electric Company shall be drawn up. The production programmes of NEK, in particular of the enterprise "Dams and stunts", for 2019 with restoration and improvement of the technical condition of the facilities are provided for repairs of 9 dams. At present, the state of the water supply is within the normal range for the winter season. In all waters, sufficient free volume is available to absorb expected inflow at intense snow melting. The available volumes in the reservoirs of the lower edge of the Arda River, for which there is a characteristic winter multi-dwelling with high water formation, are within the size determined by the Ministry of Environment and Water. In accordance with the Ordinance on the Use of Surface Waters, art. 18, para. 1, the obligation of persons managing dams under Annex No 1 of the Water Act is the submission of daily, decadent and monthly information containing a water-balance assessment of the water reservoirs they manage to the Ministry of Environment and Water. Every day, the Ministry of Environment and Water and the three pool directorates, whose territory has water pools operated by NEC, shall be consulted on the status of these dams. There are 19 emergency plans for 13 dams, one hydrotechnical complex and a repair base that are currently being updated. The emergency plans for action shall be coordinated with the local self-government bodies, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, the owners of hydrotechnical facilities along the rivers and according to the specific case. A copy of each updated emergency plan shall be maintained at the Regional Directorate for Fire Safety and Population Protection. Emergency plans shall include emergency warehouses equipped with the necessary equipment and materials, the necessary resources for the implementation, if necessary, of the emergency plans. In the rivers, at 500 meters away from the dams maintained by the dams and stunts company, they are in perfect condition and have the necessary conduction. In conclusion, I should point out that hydrotechnical facilities managed and managed by the National Electricity Company are in good technical condition and their facilities are operated without restrictions. This applies both to dams and facilities to them and to hydromechanical and electrical equipment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u128	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petkova. Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Madam Minister, I ask to be excused if we have not formulated it well, but we have derived from the natural assumption that when members of the Energy Commission ask a question to the Minister of Energy, it is not about the technical condition of the dams, which is within the competence of the Ministry of Regional Development, as questions as to where things and control are being brought there, nor about what is within the competence of the Ministry of Environment and Water. Whatever. I will try to bring further clarity to the question with several numbers and why we are worried about the state of the dams, and at all about the production of electricity. As Mr. Boychev said, the generation of electricity from the nuclear power plant and from "Contour Global" in general production in 2018 compared to 2017 was 560 408 megawatt hours less, which as a result of the two plants not operating and producing electricity generated an estimated loss of 10 to 15 million. lv. For the system, I mean. At the same time, this non-production leads to electricity generation from hydroelectric power plants to cover demand. The quantities of electricity sold by hydropower for the three months in the summer "June, July and August" of 2018, notice, and mainly at the price of "day ahead" are 898 175 megawatt hours. Given that the difference between the price and the price, I open a clamp here, that hydro power plants are precisely those plants that should cover the peak consumption of electricity rather than sell band electricity, and by saying that this difference is somewhere around 100 BGN, only because they were selling to a band's and not at a price, the losses are somewhere around 90 million. lv. This is the clean bill as you want it to be, but that's it, when you make a difference between a banal and a peak price, that's what happens. The condition, as you have heard, of the dams is critical not in terms of their technical condition or that there will be a risk of overflowing, but of being low working levels, resulting in a loss of capacity from the low levels, such as those of about 545 megawatts. Turbines cannot operate at full power at these low levels. By including the late repairs and rehabilitations that took place at the last moment, so that we do not miss European money, not the time and schedule that it should have been, we have a total loss of capacity of about 700 megawatts (695) to be more precise. In this situation, and in the fact that during the first 15 days of the year, BEH's companies sold electricity on average 14% less than the usual quantities sold on the market and will see the reference last year cover 75% of what is sold on the market. The first 15 months covered between 59% and 62%. It is no wonder why the prices on the exchange are so high that it is natural when there is high demand and low supply. In this regard, Mrs. Minister, because you will have the right to the doppelganger, I will ask you to answer to me and Mr. Boychev: what measures will you take in relation to this I do not want to define it because it is not within my competence to determine whether it is criminal or not, management, but I can say that it is unprofessional, the system of state hydropower plants? In the name of the collegiate relations that we have always had, Madam Minister, I would advise you to appoint the appropriate examination you, because, I suppose, if you do not, it is no wonder that the prosecution will do so on the basis of these facts that we have now carried out. Finally, I will quote our Prime Minister: Here in this case I see all the reasons not only for it to turn on, but also for it to turn on as much as possible a blue lamp. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u130	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Dear Mrs. Petkova, if you'd like to come in for your coat, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, dear Mr. Boychev, I will allow myself to disagree with you, first of all, regarding the wording of the question. Of course, when the Minister of Energy and a member of the Energy Commission communicate, there should be no difference in what one asks and what the other answers. Here, however, there has been a shift of the subject, as you have formulated your question, it is here, I can quote, you have formulated specifically: regarding the condition of the dams operated by NEK. And you say that, given that the subject is very painful, you hope that I will not use my right to postpone the issue. And I really fully join you, and I'm here to respond to the state of the dams run by the National Electricity Company. As for the other question that you are asking about the sale of electricity produced by the National Electricity Company through its hydropower plants, this is a completely different topic. Here we need to note several basic elements, you actually know them very well and know the specifics of the National Electric Company. The national electricity company is not just one electricity producer like everyone else. It has another, much more important, function and it is linked to the fact that it is practically a public supplier of electricity. The national electricity company has a commitment to supply electricity to the regulated market, i.e. to domestic consumers and to the business that is connected to low voltage networks. Apart from that, the National Electricity Company, as you know, has commitments in the case of BEH Electricity, together with the other two state-owned companies, which are producers of electricity. These commitments relate to each of these companies supplying the required amount of electricity on the market day-ahead market so as to ensure the liquidity of this market. According to the commitments that we carry out in the case of BEH Electricity, this commitment to date from the beginning of 2019 is 700 megawatts every hour. This is what state-owned companies provide. The National Electric Company has the same engagement. Another feature that you also know very well, and it is related to the Energy Act. You know that by the end of 2018, the National Electricity Company had a commitment to buy and sell all electricity from renewable energy sources. In order for NEK to manage this process, there were probably periods during which he formed a mix of his own energy to be able to realize this energy from renewable energy sources. But I can definitely say that there was no stopping the American power plants so that NEK could sell its energy. If you see the information contained on the electricity system operator's website, it is daily, you will see that there are cases and they are not very few, unfortunately, in which one of the plants from the Marishka pool registers a high emergency. Where such a high emergency is present, a power must naturally be activated that can provide energy for the regulated market. All other quantities of electricity that the public supplier has a commitment to provide, the state-owned companies sell their energy only on the Bulgarian independent electricity exchange. Energy is sold to different platforms depending on what the needs of both business and electricity traders are respectively. So all that must be done under the law, I use the case to assure you that it is done and is a fact. If there are, of course, any claims regarding the commercial behaviour of the National Electricity Company, you know that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission already has special powers and such verification can be carried out at any time. Thank you for your attention. In fact, I can provide you with information about the state of the dams to see that all the dams that run the National Electric Company are at levels above 60%...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u132	75% I know.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u133	...75% was due today, only last year. So far, it's 61.2%.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-25.u134	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petkova. I have no further questions for you. No more questions at all. That concludes today's parliamentary control. The next meeting on Wednesday, January 30th, at 9.00 p.m. I would like to thank all of our colleagues who have been actively involved today. That's why I'm closing today's session. Have a nice day. [[PHONE RINGING]]
