ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u1	I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that it be included in the weekly programme for the work of the National Assembly: Second vote on the Bill amending the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 The Council of Ministers of 6 June 2019 adopted on the first vote on 12 June 2019, and I propose that it be included as the first item for today's plenary session and that the rest be renumbered accordingly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u2	Who's offering it?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u3	Me. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a reverse proposal, Madam President of the National Assembly. For more than a week you have been lying about doing public consultation. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] That's what you did in the National Assembly's couloirs. Nothing like this has happened so far. The only consultations that showed up were with DPS colleagues. Over 20 NGOs wanted a debate, they wanted publicity, they wanted an expert debate on this topic. She's important, but you didn't. This shows at least an inappropriate and inadequate attitude to the subject. Moreover, you, as President of the National Assembly, should, above all, and all of us, respect at least the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, which also has the power of law. Yesterday at 10:30, the Second Reading Report was brought to the National Assembly. Yesterday at 10:30! It hasn't even been 24 hours. [[GERB lines.]] How could there not be? [[GERB lines.]] See your art. 79, para. 1 of our Rules: The drafts together with the documents under art. 76 and the report of the committee responsible to which they have been allocated shall be made available to the Members of the National Assembly no later than 24 hours before the beginning of the meeting in which they will be examined. The same deadline, if the National Assembly has not decided otherwise and it has not decided otherwise, shall also apply for consideration of the bills for the second vote. [[Heckling]] When did we decide otherwise, Madam President? When did we decide otherwise? You have not distributed the Report to the Members of the National Assembly for a second reading yesterday. One week you're walking the hallways, on the sidelines, you say public debates and discussions will be held on this subject. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] The only thing you did with the DPS was...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u5	The weather, Mr. Popov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u6	...and you decided to put this bill in plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u7	Thank you! I understand your remark and your reverse procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u8	Those geeks and finches...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u9	Thank you, Mr. Popov! [[The President turns off the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u10	I didn't graduate.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u11	You haven't finished yet, but your time is up. Thank you. I understand what your procedure is, and I will put it to the vote. [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] Mr. Popov! Time's up! We're in 25 seconds after two minutes. [[(Noise, lines and banging on banks from BSP for Bulgaria.) People's representative Philip Popov continues to speak with microphones off.)]] I understand what your reverse procedure is, Mr. Popov. Thank you. I'm gonna make a point, and what am I...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u12	You're taking my word away.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u13	I'm not taking your word for it. I gave you an opportunity for two minutes. [[National Representative Philip Popov spoke with microphones off.]] Thank you, Mr. Popov! I don't think I'm a dictator. Please take your place! Please, Mr. Popov, take your place! Thank you. Colleagues, I quote Art. 79, para. 1:.................................................... The same deadline if the National Assembly doesn't decide For this reason............................................................................................ 53, para. 5, I propose the point and I will put it to a vote to see if the National Assembly decides otherwise. [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) A line from the National Representative Philip Popov.)]] Here you go, Mr. Stoinev. Now we have an opportunity to discuss this subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Of course, the subject is extremely important and therefore we do not understand, Madam President, what is the need for this haste? Why so quickly and why now first? Secondly, Madam President, at the Chairman's Council this item was not on the agenda. What changed from yesterday to today? When we want there to be transparency in a political system, the most normal is for the opposition to be informed so that it can ultimately really express its opinion, arguments and, above all, express its disagreement. This is really about a huge division that is coming in Bulgarian society. It was quite normal for this item to come on the agenda and be discussed at the Presidency Council and not right now, at the last moment, with a report that should have been ready a week ago, you would have imposed a force item on the agenda and want a full change of the political system in the country. It's not collegiate, it's not right, it's not democratic, so accept that the opposition is disagreeable and there's nothing wrong with that. This point can be watched next Wednesday.. Nothing stands in the way, there is no such hurry. Let society be prepared for what awaits it, and not at the last moment you impose, again, forcefully. Yes, you are strong now, but in the end, life is a wheel tomorrow you will be weak. I hope we don't go that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. I do not force anything, I simply suggest and I will let the House decide by its vote how today will take place if the point enters into discussion or not. I'm putting to the vote the proposal I made just now. Vote 204 MPs: 122, against 80, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Come on in, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u16	Thank you, Madam President. I am doing a re-voting procedure. Some of my colleagues failed to vote, and it is nice to see who are the speakers of the goons in Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u17	Mr. Popov, please! I'm making a note!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u18	Punishment! I ask that he be punished. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u19	I made an observation. Please, voting mode. What's going on with Mrs. Anastasova's console? The voice will be read as against, Mrs. Anastasova, if it is not reported as it is, we will read it as............................................................................................ Vote 206 MPs: 124 against 82 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Who will introduce us to the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance? Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u20	Thank you, Madam President. The Commission's Report on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 902-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 June 2019, adopted at the first vote on 12 June 2019. The draft for the second vote. The Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria is amended as follows: The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u21	Statements? I can't see. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. Vote 198 MPs: 121, against 73, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u22	According to § 1 there is a proposal from the MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Delyan Peevski and Yordan Tsonev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The 64th number. "11" is replaced by "0" is replaced by "0" The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Iskren Veselinov, Mladen Mihov, Alexander Siddi, Atanas Stoyanov, Krasimir Bogdanov, Yordan Yordanov, Kalin Popovski, Alexander Sabanov: The second sentence is created in § 1 with the following text: "Determining the amount of the subsidy for parliamentary activity to BGN 1 500 000. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u23	Statements? I don't see any speeches. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Is there? Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This debate will end as it began scandalously, unpleasantly, with more unspoken than said, because no matter how much the last three or four weeks have been said on this issue, nothing has actually been said in substance. And if that were your goal, if the initial idea was to engage the public discussion with the topic of party money and not with the serious problems of Bulgarian society, it is in this, ladies and gentlemen, as if you had succeeded. The Ministry of Finance's mistakes have been forgotten, which has made it pay more than the budget says. The protests related to the price of fuel were not noticed, the protests of the nurses were not noticed, you pay no attention to the protest about the construction of Sofia, you remain blind and deaf to those who protest, as the Black Sea Coast Act is stricter to those with tents than to those with diggers. And it is the same logic that you do and now you punish those who are weaker to strengthen the power of those who are stronger. Just as the builder investor of the Black Sea is protected by the law, and the man with the tent and the camping man is not, just like the big and strong parties, those who are in power will have money, and those who are fighting for public trust will not have money. This is the idea of this law. You covered the topics with one lev. At least for now! But I warn you, ladies and gentlemen, you will pay a serious price for this and it is because you not only started a race to the bottom, you are about to win it. And I'm not just talking about the bottom six, five, one or zero leva figures behind which there is nothing but random I'm talking about the way you debate and impose decisions. We all slept through a referendum. A sin that will yet weigh. The public debate we have had during these four weeks does not meet the elementary conditions for the seriousness of the issue that we have been dealing with. We wasted two years periodically raising the issue of subsidies, but as a threat. Don't tease us too much, you say, because we'll make the grant a lev, don't ask for a resignation from this one or that one, because you'll see what happens to you. The Prime Minister's words with which this pseudo-debate began a few weeks ago are indicative. To open, he says, for the oligarchy to enter, to become ministers, MPs and so on, that is what you want to announce irritable, let the parties shop them. They, by the way, oligarchs, will not become ministers and MPs, will not deal with this thing that requires publicity and going out in public, they will shop for them this time officially. And so, both in the National Assembly and in all departments, are the pictures of their previous leaders, so tomorrow in the office of some big businessman or corporate agent can put pictures of those political individuals who protect his interests. That's the future you're drawing today. And how do I say, the scariest thing is that you know it. There's no one, I'm sure, there's no one in this room who doesn't know exactly what's going on and does it consciously. The question is: why? There's probably different motivations. Some of you, some political forces, for example, think that by playing this game, they will outsmart us, outsmart you, us, let another one, release something that they know is wrong, because they have stated it repeatedly to make a breakthrough elsewhere. It's their political strategy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u25	[[DPS, from place.]] How do you know?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u26	Because I've been thinking about it for a long time. Others, because they have long lost even the thought that they have their own will and can do something other than what they are told from above. Most of you not only know and are aware, but do not want to vote on this proposal. However, their sense of responsibility is far from equal to their sense of subordination. Just in case, and those who think they can outplay and outsmart this game, and those who do it out of blind obedience, I would say that in the end, all of them will pay for the whole political system and the Bulgarian people will pay for it with the change. That's...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u27	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u28	This is the way to the bottom, the way to non-freedom, the way to deny political pluralism, and anyone who does it consciously is an accomplice in this process. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u29	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Go ahead, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the Parliament, we are looking at a very important point on the state budget update. And at this so important point, the point, which is a kind of vote of confidence to the government, is also absent in this House the Prime Minister, who has some international, objective reasons, but where is the Minister of Finance? Where is he, say, some Deputy Minister of Finance, some head of department at the Ministry of Finance, some employee at the Ministry of Finance? Is there anyone from the Ministry of Finance in this room at all, Madam President? We're looking at a state budget update. It has already become clear with the inclusion of this point that it will also receive the support of the DPS. You have secured a vote, but at least let those people who guarantee statehood, who represent the state, who are importers of this bill, at least one person, if at least the cleaning lady of the Ministry of Finance can come to us to answer some questions. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u31	I understand your procedure, Mr. Svilensky. I'll inform the Minister of Finance. If you prefer the cleaning lady, we'll bring her in, too. Do you have any other comments? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the proposal of Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, I think that this is one of the right proposals on what subsidy and the amount of subsidy to receive each parliamentary party from the point of view of having a really annual budget, to appear in elections and to be able to organise its organizational work..... and rentals of clubs, and party coordinators, and fuels, and advertisements, and media service, and everything else, including this amount is calculated on the basis that once a year there are usually elections in Bulgaria. The proposal is also made to have a ceiling of the corresponding subsidies, so that what irritates the Bulgarian society, some parties can take 20 million subsidies per year. I hope that the Bulgarian National Assembly and Bulgarian MPs will come out of their party biases, will really look at things as they should and will protect democracy in Bulgaria. If this proposal of Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs is supported, I think that democracy in Bulgaria will also be protected and the desire of the Bulgarian society to reduce the subsidies of the parties will be implemented. Because based on this account, there may be about 20 million dollars per year of money that were given to the parties before. I call on all parliamentary parties to make sure that we resolve this problem and not deepen it, because no one is profiting from it. We at IMRO have always been in favour of reducing party subsidies, we have participated in the previous Parliament and for such proposals then we have not had any support and we are now in favour and we have therefore supported the proposal at first reading to reduce subsidies. In the end, when something is being reduced, it must be made so that the public interest is protected, and the interest of the political parties in Bulgaria, not to do so that the Bulgarian political parties are dependent on business, on oligarchs, on local feudals or even worse from foreign countries, on foreign foundations, foreign organizations, which happened, unfortunately, over the years back in the so-called transition in Bulgaria. So really, please support this proposal by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, so that we can put an end to this absurd situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u33	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Is there a line, Mr. Zarkov? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Angelov, indeed your proposal, which determines the amount of subsidy for the parliamentary activity of a million and a half leva plus those that will be determined, aims to find some balance because you understand that the drastic reduction, in fact the cancellation of the party subsidy, is not the right solution. I will tell you, however, why we will not support it by assessing your balance sheet experience. It closes political life within the parliamentary parties. You are from a political formation that has been parliamentary represented at some moments, unparliamentaryly represented at other times. They deserve funding and the parties that are outside the parliament are working. Bulgarian political life needs opening, not closing. We do not need to support only and only what is the current political state on a particular day. We must and must constantly attract and provoke political activity in as many people as possible, as many organisations as possible. This is the basic guarantee of the vitality of the democratic process. And my question to you is: because your balance can be rejected, if you reject your proposal, then we are going to the starting point to reject the party subsidy, then how will you vote on the offer by importer?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u36	Mr. Zarkov, unfortunately, we did not see a proposal from the BSP regarding these changes in the Budget Act. There are two or three proposals that have been submitted by the DPS or by part of the.... United In my opinion, your thesis on supporting this proposal is simply absurd. So we are proposing an option that really is an optimal option for parties to have a normal life, and you are saying that we will reject it because outside the parliament there are parties that should also receive funds. Who are these parties? Have you bothered to see how many are outside the parliament that are currently receiving a subsidy? Have you ever answered that question? There is only one in which its main slogan during the elections, when participating in parliament, was that it would not benefit from the subsidy. That is, we will help even this party to get rid of the subsidy because they do not want to use it. A single party has outside the parliament, which is using a subsidy at the moment and they, the people, do not want to use it, but the law obliges them. Let's help them not to use it. You don't want to do this. Here, let us help the extra-parliamentary parties who have made a commitment to society and have not made it happen. So your logic, unfortunately, understand GERB's logic for the moment why it supports this proposal and will fight to the end for it, because such a commitment has taken place with the introduction of this bill and will support it, but I cannot understand the logic of BSP. The logic of the BSP is obviously not to solve the problem, but to continue with the scandal and to deepen the political crisis in Bulgaria is your logic. And if you do not support this proposal, I do not see a way in which the situation can be resolved. What other offer will you support? For zero leva or for one lev, will you support, Mr. Zarkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u37	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Any other speeches? Mr. Hamid, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the Parliament, the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. The debate on how to finance political parties is as old and as long as the transition itself. The 11 levs have established over the years as that amount of a medium-sized party that is sufficient to operate the party, to support its apparatus, to support its structures, its offices and to finance its campaigns over the years when elections take place. Although rarely, however, there are years when we have two types of elections, so we cannot agree that the subsidy must be reduced. Any reduction in the subsidy below BGN 11 and the remaining of this model - public funding of political parties - will lead to the inability of a normal, medium-sized party to carry out its activities. That is why we propose to open up the other funding model to the parties to raise funds and not to receive public funding. This model has already come up that it is almost nowhere in Europe except Switzerland, but it has been working successfully in the United States for a very long time! [[Noise and lines.]] We want to reach levels of democracy in the United States, why not borrow this model? The reduction below BGN 11 is unacceptable to us.. We have said the arguments about this. Mr. Popov was just talking about counseling. Of course, we are not happy with the consultations either, Mr. Popov, because we made very important proposals during these consultations and they, colleagues, agreed. In the Budget Committee, however, all of a sudden, for formal reasons fixed in our rules, it did not come to debate, to discuss and vote on proposals for the establishment of the kindergarten fund, our proposals for reducing the VAT on bread, books. Dear Mrs. Daritkova, so when you consult and make commitments, keep them! It will really be useful for GERB as well. We will support our proposal and ask our colleagues to support it, too, to open the US funding model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. For a line, Mr. Atanasov, come in. Second line, Mr. Milkov, Mr. Kutev, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr Hamid! Well, it is precisely because of this model in the United States that they actually manage only two parties, although there are several more, but precisely because of this model of existence of their political system there, throughout their governance, in all their history there are only two parties - Republican and Democratic. It's this model. That's what it brings. Because the big business in America, you know, prefers to support these two big parties. Nothing more! And that makes sense. And even there is a Law on lobbying, an official law in which the business that will support Republicans or Democrats clearly in its contract records what it will want from them when they take over power. You know, that's not gonna happen in Bulgaria. But there, if you donate illegally, you go to jail like you're committing murder. [[Noise and lines.]] That's right, isn't it? Here in Bulgaria, do you think it will become this model? I don't believe it. And the other thing I'm gonna tell you. If we introduce the American model of the next parliament, this parliament will be the dream of many people, there will be only three parties. From now on, there will be only three parties in the parliament - you, Mr Hamid, DPS, GERB, as the largest party and, of course, BSP. Because business would prefer to finance you mostly. From here on out... [[Noise and lines.]] From now on, you will become [[noise and lines]] You're gonna get up, not that he's gone now. [[noise and lines]] Not that he's gone now... [[the President signals that time has run out]] ...but the Roman principle... The weather, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u41	Yeah, I'm graduating, but the Roman principle is: the dose makes the poison. Not that this model is not available now in Bulgaria as well, secretly, under the Surdinian business to support large parties, but when we formalise it, there will be not even three, but maybe two parties in parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u42	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u43	If you want this to happen in Bulgaria, you are currently opening the way to it. The easiest way in Bulgaria to liquidate democracy. And every democracy goes away with...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u44	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. I'll be strict in time, colleagues. Mr. Milkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u45	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleague Hamid, you do not offer any model. You turn off the light and open the door. And because I know you and the capacity of your parliamentary group, you can offer a model, but you don't offer it. That's not a model. It's a sentence that turns out the light and opens the doors without any criteria. Without any criteria! What legal entities can finance parties? This is not the text we need to discuss right now. None! It says, "Juridical persons," "single traders." And those who have no income other than public procurement?! And those who have no income other than concessions?! You're not offering a model! In addition, in the United States, as the colleague said, there is a Law on lobbying. There are hundreds of years of lobbying practice. You know that. And you're not offering any model! At the moment, it is suggested that something that shows only one thing: that for your parliamentary group it is clear that this zero or one lev is a temporary measure, a temporary bat to perform certain unpleasant activities, to leave the opposition without funding, whether left, right, whether parliamentary, or extraparliamentary. Calling this sentence a model shows your true goals: serving the managers together to leave before the local elections the alternatives not financed, whether right or left. So don't talk about models! There's no pattern here. I believe you can offer it, but you're not offering it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u46	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Kutev, for the third line. [[Noise and lines.]] You can make speeches, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u47	Honourable Members, Madam President! Mr. Hamid, what you're suggesting is, in my opinion, it's not, and it has nothing to do with the American model. The US model is a model of broad funding, which includes opportunities for funding from citizens, also includes opportunities for financing from businesses. It's just that business isn't what it is here. When business finances there, it is subject to another regulation. There, for example, the main people in the business, or one of the main people in the business, cannot actually own a media monopoly. And this guy I've been talking about, for a long time everyone's been saying that he owns a media monopoly, he didn't own it back then, but now I'm convinced that he actually owns a media monopoly. He is also a member of parliament, he is also a key businessman, he is also the main sponsor of political parties. This isn't an American model. This is a Bulgarian model in its worst version of the model. It has nothing to do with democracy or values. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u48	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. For the back, Mr. Hamid, come in. Then a statement by Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u49	Of course, colleagues, we agree that funding should be in the light of tax payments. I don't know what kind of light extinguishing Mr. Milkov is talking about. We're talking about light funding. Management in the United States mainly by two parties is not due to the funding model, Mr. Atanasov. This is due to the form of management there. Let me tell you that two parties do not rule in Switzerland. In Switzerland, there is currently a coalition of three or four parties and there are a dozen other parties operating without receiving a single lev from the Swiss state. I don't know, Mr. Kutev, what media monopoly you're talking about, but the colleague you're pointing out suggested texts for illumination, texts that you didn't support. We have suggested that media owners do not hide behind offshore companies, come out in the light, in a public register, you did not support it. I don't know what media monopoly you're talking about when media gum was created against this colleague of ours. And if there was such a media monopoly, would 90% of the Bulgarian media spread slander, lies, innuendo at the address of this colleague?! Why didn't you support the enlightenment of media owners, why didn't you vote for the media?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u50	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a statement. [[Relations from the National Representative Anton Kutev.]] A statement, Mr. Kutev. Then Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u51	Madam President, honourable Members! 30 years ago, our predecessors, gathered in the form of a Grand National Assembly, chose a model of government that sought, of course, to update the political scene in Bulgaria with the one that was relevant to this date in Europe, in the world, after a change that some welcome with ovations, others with resentment, of course, because our society is still divided to date. Thirty years later, we, working here, are the product of this system, of this decision, of this basic law, the Constitution, which was adopted then. Nothing has changed, dear colleagues, in these 30 years! The political system functions the way our ancestors here, 30 years ago, bet it. The requirements of modern society are to have a normal functioning political model that reflects the wishes, demands and aspirations of every Bulgarian citizen. Unfortunately, colleagues, a large part of the audience did not understand what happened two years ago in the referendum. In this referendum, Bulgarian citizens made a desperate appeal to every single representative of every single political force, especially to those in power who were then and are now ruling, for the outrage that was being done at every single level of government. They said: "Dear gentlemen, honourable politicians, our chosen ones, either get back on track or we'll sweep you off your feet. And the first signal we give you is: we want your subsidy to be reduced to one lev, because you are not fulfilling the basic commitment of the public contract that you have signed with us....... to represent us................................................................................ So what do we do today? First alert because it was found that a crime was committed in the Ministry of Finance. Mr. Borisov and his finance minister came on the run and decided that something that happened two years ago should happen today. Yes, but it will not reflect the demands of Bulgarian citizens! It will not reflect what political parties are obliged to do in their own existence and in this Parliament to vote on laws to protect the interests of Bulgarian citizens. Today we will vote on texts that disagree with the political parties disagreed with the Bulgarian society because two years ago no one tried to talk, to discuss, to enter into a debate with those who raised the topic of reducing subsidies, to hear why they want to reduce subsidies, to hear why these people do not want us here because it has already come to this. The public feels intolerance towards those who represent them, which is why this decision was then taken. And today we, especially you gentlemen in charge, with these proposals for one lev, for zero levs, should we go into the scope of private funding, what do we do? We tell them: Dear Bulgarian citizens, honourable voters, mind your own business! We have internal problems and we want to solve them here and now. We want to destroy an opposition that has been actively pushing us out of power for two years and aha-ha to succeed. [[noise and lines]] And now, best of all, on the threshold of the local elections, to send her to this opposition, where she belongs, of course, to be gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u52	Oh, yeah?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u53	BSP has not accidentally tabled proposals for amendments to this law, because such amendments should be made with discussion, debate, meetings, representatives of parliamentary and extra-parliamentary political forces, and you have escaped this debate. Even today you are not having this debate, even today you are silent from this tribune and you are not saying anything. And what do you do? We will punish the Bulgarian citizen again, that is what is done. You will not punish the opposition, you will not punish anyone else, but you will punish the sovereign because the sovereign 30 years ago chose this way of governance with this way of funding and nothing has changed to date. Honourable Members, if there is a little common sense left in your mind, if there is a little common sense left in your leaders, who have unknown why they have decided right now, right now to vote on this, reject this law! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Ivanov the first line, Mr. Milkov has a statement. Mr. Hamid, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Ivanov, you mentioned the referendum and that there was no debate with the importers of this referendum. In my opinion, however, all political parties, without the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, did not debate with their voters during the campaign for this referendum, no one explained to their voters what these 11 BGN are needed for. and how these funds are spent. This is the fault of the political class. The DPS explained to its voters why money is needed and how it is spent. During this referendum, Mr. Ivanov, we have also heard from your representatives that the subsidy is very large and must be reduced. I think the fault of the political class is enormous and politicians are obliged to explain to their voters how they spend their money, not to debate with the referendum importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u56	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Mr. Ivanov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u57	Thank you, Madam President! Dear colleagues! Dear colleague Ivanov, I listened to your speech, which seemed hypocritical to me. Two and a half million Bulgarian citizens in a referendum held several years ago said: one left-wing party subsidy. Coming out of this tribune, given that there is a proposal of the Council of Ministers to fulfill these wishes of the Bulgarian citizens, of the Bulgarian voters, and you to say that there was no such debate, provided that your speaker also reminded you of what you said to your voters then, where you were, where you had this debate, it seems very late to me that your speech was made. To tell you the truth, for me are pure hypocrisy the statements of members of the Bulgarian Socialist Party that there was no such debate. When did you conduct it with your constituents? What did you say about the referendum, after the referendum three years, four years and now, given that we have stated that we will support this decision of the Council of Ministers........................................................................................ Two and a half years in Parliament, without three months, during which you did not come to work, but all this time you had the opportunity to introduce your voters and all Bulgarian citizens to your intention and to your vision for the financing of political parties in Bulgaria. You didn't, and that's why we don't see your proposal between first and second readings where it is. You know the procedure very well and try to use the Rules only when you please. When you have the opportunity for a legislative initiative, do it! And not now to say that there was no debate or that you couldn't make it happen, you just didn't have that desire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Is there gonna be a third line? I can't see. Mr. Ivanov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr Hamid! Yes, you're right, you only had this debate with your constituents. Thank you for reminding everyone present in this House that the debate was absent at the time and everyone, especially the government, strengthened to the victory that naturally slipped away from them, why they were punished by the voter of this referendum and these elections for what they were doing, and today they still don't understand it. Mr. Ivanov, today we are debating and talking about this subsidy because you are hypocrites! Your political power is hypocritical because you didn't know for two years and didn't remember that there was such a referendum. When the D.A. told you that your Ministry of Finance was committing a crime in a hurry, you made a banishment of laws so you could save someone's skin! Here in an artificial way you put us a debate without asking anyone without talking to someone you tell us: come a lev now and see what you will do! This is hypocrisy, Mr. Ivanov, not only against the political parties that are here, but it is hypocrisy against the Bulgarian citizens, because you negotiated with the importers of this referendum and not someone else. We explained precisely and clearly then to our voters.. that is hypocrisy. To date, you want one thing: to come clean, to justify someone's crime and to punish the opposition, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. The procedure was Mr. Chenchev, and then Mr. Ivanov was in the way of conduct. Mr. Kutev, you can wait. Mr. Zablyanov, I'm writing him down for a statement. Mr. Chenchev, what is your procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u61	Madam President, honourable Members! Madam President of the National Assembly, with all due respect to you as a person, I will now make this procedure as a position to the President of the National Assembly. Firstly, this emptiness here, to my right, is an insult to my colleagues and to you personally, because the State Budget Act cannot be seen without a representative of the Ministry of Finance, my colleague Svilenski said. Now I wonder, are you the President of the National Assembly? And if you are in the parliamentary republic, you are in the strongest position in the country. In this position you do not need to inform, you are not the Office "Contacts and Information, you are the President of the National Assembly, and as such you should call someone from the Ministry of Finance to be here because the State Budget Act is being reviewed. This is unacceptable and an insult to all of us! You quite deliberately, because, forgive me, but I am not convinced that you informed them. I'm not sure! Convince us and summon them to appear here. It is their job, our job is also to be here and to debate, but theirs is to attend this debate and to participate actively, because it is about spending money. As President of the National Assembly, in which you must enter, as you do every day, do it again and summon them, and bring them into the Chamber. Their guilt is not to hide behind some director of the directorate, the minister of finance, who was guilty. Tell me: if you ask the Minister of Finance for some money and he tells you, do you accept his answer as a pure coin? Of course, each of us will accept it, it's Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev, I understand the remark. Yeah, I've heard from the Ministry of Finance, and we're expecting a representative from there any minute now. Mr. Ivanov, please come in for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u63	Madam President, honourable Members! I am taking this procedure because, from the beginning of the debate on this first point against my political party and directly to me, a lot of insults have been done. Here we see that on the slightest occasion a procedure is required immediately. I would like to say from this platform that, on 10 May 2017, in order to avoid speculation, our political party submitted to this Parliament [[noise and lines]] "You, the same gentlemen who are present here, and there was a debate on how much to be the subsidy of the political parties in connection with the referendum that was held so that we could be attributed some insults here, I simply cannot agree. It's not a statement, and I want to stop speculation...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u64	Mr. Ivanov is addressing me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u65	...and that's why I want punishment for all those who from this tribune said, first of all, that we've been... I won't list all the epithets that...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u66	Don't, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u67	...I won't list them because I won't be allowed my upbringing. [[Noise and lines.]] I would like to say that a political party which has gone bankrupt and which has gone bankrupt once again, cannot go out here and tell our political party that the grant of a lev was hypocrisy! Moreover, I would say that the political party GERB, when it was created, made more than three choices without any funding, so... [[(Noise and replica by BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u69	That's right, that's right! The ones pointing fingers don't know what year or how GERB was created. I want everyone to be at the heights of morale by how party funds are spent and spent and when we talk about people's will for a lev, to listen to their voice, because now in the last elections they have been shown red card. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u70	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I'll take a note. When insulting qualifications are used, I will make stricter remarks. Let me just say who signed up for the statement: Mr. Popov, Mr. Milkov, Mrs. Zablyanov, Mrs. Lecheva, Mr. Chenchev and Mr. Stoinev. Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u71	Madam President, honourable Members! I think this debate and this day is one of the most unacceptable to me as a presence in the National Assembly for the third term in which I participate. It is unacceptable, perhaps even a soft word, because in fact we are currently dealing with the public self-loathing of everything that the people call the political class. I don't think politicians are classy, I think they are a specific layer that is well-deservedly hated by a large part of the people, and one of the reasons for hating this layer is precisely a similar event to what we are doing right now. The reason for this is, of course, that modern political life intrusively leads to populism as one of the main tools for controlling public attention in some way, and at the moment we are trying to transcend all possible limits of the eligibility of populism. Personally, I have a problem with populism because it represents a constant diversion of real subject matter and putting into another. Whatever we are talking about, I do not believe that there is a person in this room who is not sure that the real topic and the real problems of today are the extremely low incomes, the absolutely lame economy, the collapse of health care, the social system that is dying, and in ten years most of us do not know how we will get our pensions and whether we will get them. These are the real problems. In their place, we place heavy populism on how much money we pay ourselves, and we put it the worst possible option. So we put it on the table from the point of view of pure populism and of this, you see, how an awful lot of money a party gets. Whether there are many, or few, right are the colleagues who said that we did not have this debate. But we didn't just have it on one side or the other, we all didn't. All of us in recent years have been engaged in heavy populism to give in, not to rule. We all lost all notions of leadership and replaced leadership with attempts to impose, with attempts to overscream, with attempts to constantly appear in front of the cameras, not to do the real things that I have already said who they are. The real things are those for which the people outside are hurting, and what we are doing right now is just trying to punish us. And we, as full suckers, apologize at the moment to everyone, to the entire ruling class, again, if there is such a concept, we all bite the hook and go right against the interests of the citizens of the Republic, because what we are dealing with at the moment is a low populism envisioned by representatives of all the political forces in this room to one and leading to the complete self-destruct of the authority of the government. That is, if we continue just a few more steps this way, we come to a complete anarchy that neither of you gentlemen in the costumes here, a barbar with me, is in no condition to bear. Because if you have any advantage over others, it's that you're in the gym and that you can change people's fates. Again, populism was from all over the room. To get here, we all contributed together. My big dream is to try to get out of here another way. It is obvious that it will not be in today's day, it is obvious that we will have to take some other steps towards the future of our country, but please all those in the Chamber: I understand that we cannot do without populism. Today's world and today's policy is very directly linked, but populism is one thing.. it can have borders, it can be a toolbox, but never populism can and should not be the only goal of a political government. You can't go through populism. It's not like in the baron munchausen. You can grab your hair and pull yourself out of the swamp. That's not how it's gonna go down, guys! We have real problems to solve. What we are doing today is a step not a step, but a sprint in the opposite direction of what people need to do. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u72	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Any lines to Mr. Kutev? I can't see. To speak, Mr. Popov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This, in my opinion, is not a State Budget Amendment Act, but rather could be a Law on the Murder of Democracy and Pluralism in Bulgaria, I don't even say "republika" because the Republic has it, and suggests other values. This is a law for the return of Mutrenian times in Bulgaria, giving the public sale of the parties in Bulgaria, a law legitimizing corruption in Bulgaria, a law that wide opens the doors for foreign funding and influence of other countries and private interests, a law that ultimately destroys our national security. It is a pity that you did not open and review the transcripts, did not understand the arguments, reason and stately approach of 2005, when the Law on Political Parties was shortly before that, when the then MPs introduced the state transparent funding for political parties. He's a fool who doesn't learn from history, my dear. There is no such system anywhere in modern Europe, if you can call it a system, anywhere in Europe has had such an impact on parties as in mutren Bulgaria. In other words, you suspended fundamental values in our Constitution, and it is a modern, European-oriented act of the Grand National Assembly. I remember the solemn meeting of this National Assembly in Tarnovo, the words and words of the then MPs. I cross-referenced them with today's, the current MPs, and the result is not in favor of the supposedly modern campaigners for democracy. Pluralism in democracy is not a given, but an achievement, an achievement, achieved poorly, with many steps, one of which is the transparent state funding of political parties, their independence from private interests and the interest of foreign countries. Unfortunately for me, with this act the National Assembly will no longer be this way in the future, but rather will be a General Assembly of Private Interests in Bulgaria, the General Assembly of oligarchs, and the Council of Ministers may be the Board of Directors, because the people will no longer be the employer of the MPs. Dear MPs of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, you, who will support this law - congratulations! You have officially placed on the stall of Bulgaria: Sold! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u74	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Are there any lines? I won't. We continue with the statement of Mr. Milkov you have the floor, dear Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u75	Honourable Mr. Chairman, fellow Members who are falling in this House! Each of you as a Member of Parliament except in the National Assembly, working on places, meeting with the citizens. And what are citizens' expectations when you meet? They welcome you and say: reduce subsidies to zero levs, to one lev. People expect a better life, people expect it for so many years, people expect a stronger country, people expect to be proud again. Because they don't get this thing, they're looking for a way to say they're dissatisfied and that's it! This is what every one of you knows because in the referendum they asked: should we cut their money? Well, if they had said, "Let's leave them without pay, let's leave them five people, or shut them down," it would have been successful too. Why? Because here the color of the nation back years.. I do not say by working or you only fail in giving pride, hope, path. So right now this is the result of this one lev. But experts say because you and I are not experts in allology that party financing is at the heart of the protection of these fundamental values of democracy, and in 2005, when it comes to state funding, it is an achievement of the Bulgarian political system. It has gone through different options - whether it should be tied to the minimum wage, whether it should be a solid amount, but it has never given way to this principle, because it was known to be a shield, it is a protection and it is so in every European country except Switzerland, a boutique state that was being set as an example today, it is the only one. In all other countries, there is state funding - whether it has a regression scale, i.e. to certain votes one amount - then the larger parties reduce the amount of vote, but there is one. The law offered to us was introduced without an impact assessment. Write down how much will be saved by the end of the year is not an impact assessment, because when you remove public funding, you open the door for private funding, a bunch of things happen and it's not just saving some money. There, that's the impact. Is it appreciated? It's not appreciated. This bill is without an impact assessment because, by entering private interests, other things will happen. Who will determine the lists? Who will appoint the candidates? Whose interests will they protect politicians who are not financed by the state but from private interests? They will be compradors officially, and not just some of them who are looking to become such. Just a few months ago as an argument for why funding should be maintained, all of you, discussing the Religious Law, agreed that it was a matter of national security not to interfere with their work foreign NGOs with their created here. You know what foundations there are that form billions in their resources to influence our political, cultural and religious lives. You therefore accepted that even faiths should be state funded in exactly the same way. Well, read yourself the same arguments with which you introduced the preceding religious bill, and multiply it by ten, because the political party is wide palette and defends not only religion, but many, many other interests in society. For me, funding must be tied to the number of votes that the party has generated, to guarantee small parties equal participation in political life, and then with a regression scale to reduce vote funding up; to be bound to what parties spend their money on is it normal for donations, is it normal to be on deposits? Let's write down what's normal. Is it normal for the political system to be open to small extraparliamentary parties? Yeah, we have to say it. Does that guarantee it now? No. Finally, there is no way not to point out the most visible, namely: GERB again - DPS present a proposal that will approve each other, which is harmful. Again after the Election Code, we are here again and we are talking the same thing officially, and the joint interest between you is once again the business interest of the new Coalition based on business interests: to bring down the funding, one says, to open up official legal entities to finance the parties without any restriction, the others say. That's where you're together. Our new business coalition. I'm against this thing. I believe that you also realize that it is harmful. Don't vote on it, because very soon you will be forced to return party funding. It's harmful what's happening right now. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u76	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. The line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u77	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My fellow Member, I take a line not because I disagree with what you say, I almost fully approve. I take a line not because you speak to fellow MPs, but because they are aware there are no stupid people here, everyone is on a high-intelligent level, I am convinced of that because almost every one of you know personally. I take a line because you had to explain the Bulgarian always likes to compare to something. You should have explained to the Bulgarian because you made an official statement and will be given in the media tonight, why parties are not financed in Switzerland. Because the Bulgarian will immediately ask the question: and if in Switzerland the parties are not financed, so can we. No, we can't. Because the Swiss system is completely different. The Swiss system solves almost all its issues with a referendum and therefore the parties there really do not need funding. Because there you have almost completely direct democracy, almost every issue in Switzerland is solved with a referendum. But they can afford it because the referendum is an extremely expensive pleasure. Therefore, you should have explained this not to our MPs, who are aware of it, you should have explained it to the citizens who are watching you to know why Switzerland does not finance its parties and the entire other Europe finances them. It's just that Switzerland is too rich, my friend, and there have been democratic traditions for thousands of years, I repeat, for thousands of years. Look at the history of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Second line, here you go. Third line, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u79	Dear colleague, initially and mainly the model that proposes the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is to remain the funding so far, but since we do not see the political will to do this in the National Assembly, we come to the fact that it is better to be zero leva than to go out with the fiction of one lev, which is absolutely insufficient to finance political parties, and without funding it is clear that political parties and not a single sector in public life can exist. And the conclusion that we all need to draw from this so-called referendum is that the people do not give a good assessment of the political system in terms of the productivity of the policies it proposes. This is not for us, this is for the ruling majority, and it should not have come to this extreme, because it is really populism to come to funding for a lev. To consider how it becomes productive and to be really fertile, not that way. This is our proposal, colleague. We are for the preservation of the current status quo - BGN 11, but if we are going to get to one lev, it is better to be zero leva and to go so far as to look for open funding because there is no other way. What is the other model, how else do political parties exist? It's clear there isn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u80	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. Third line you have the floor, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u81	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Milkov, my line to you is this. It does not only concern your speech, but also other representatives of the BSP that you show the problem of the lack of funding of parties only and only related to the National Assembly and the MPs. The problem is deeper. The lack of funding and transparency in the party system, if financed otherwise, will also strike representatives for the European Parliament, where huge international corporations will finance certain candidates so that they can lobby for their interests in the European institutions, in the European Parliament. It's the same with the presidential election. And the worst is with the local elections, where representatives of the local business will actually rule a large part of the municipalities, which will feodise the total municipal administration.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u82	That's not true! It's the opposite!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u83	Mrs. Stoyanova, if you have something to say, there's a tribune, you can come and say it. If you think it's okay for the local business to hold the municipalities, say it here from the stands, not from the bank. I've never replicated you before. More dangerous is that the whole country will be divided among certain businessmen in municipalities, because parties really cannot counteract. Given that they will not have funding to come to local elections alone, they will have to look for local businesses, people with money to support them. Of course, then we remember all the public procurements going through which companies are going to go through? It's clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u84	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u85	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll answer all three lines. They are all from the Patriots and from the DPS, that is, GERB continues to remain silent in this debate. I'm not saying this to pick a fight, I'm just pointing it out. As far as Switzerland is concerned, I absolutely agree with your clarification, I have nothing to replicate you on a solid democracy that uses public referendums to put every single question in question. Mr. Ebatine, the DPS is for BGN 11, you say. I tell you: in just a few minutes you have the opportunity not to say it, but to prove it by voting, and your group rejected the proposal for one or zero leva, and then will remain 11 leva. We know your position, you were the only ones who pointed to it in a referendum. Then stand up for her. [[Reply.]] Why stubborn?! Vote now against these proposals, vote for staying this size. Mr. Angelov, you are right about the whole political system, not only the National Assembly, representatives in the European Parliament and the most cruel political parties in the local government, where many interests intersect. I said: The National Assembly, because here is the legislative body, here transnational corporations can, through certain levers, lead to harmful measures for society. The same can be done, as I said, NGOs allegedly, to neighbours, to other countries. You know about this danger. Of course, the whole political system, because parties are part of the Bulgarian society. Each of our parties is different and represents a part of the Bulgarian society. These aren't artificial subjects. This is part of the society. Citizens who have united to be active. They must be supported by the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. You have the floor, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I know you won't believe me when I tell you that I didn't want to speak on this topic today, but the last four speeches couldn't help but wake me up with a sense of injustice and insult. Three things I want to share with the gym and with the people watching us or watching us. Do you realize what's happening in this room right now? Do you realize that after a brilliant populist statement by the spokesperson three people ago, a colleague [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Do you realize that after the mixed, written statement of a colleague, where there are written goons inside, I don't know what, I don't know what, and then the analytical statement of the doctor in law, actually behind all these things is a truth? This truth is simple.. no one on the left side of the room wants, does not want, and cannot afford the luxury of admitting this truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u88	Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u89	Your party is bankrupt. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] One lev doesn't suit you because you're bankrupt. You were always bankrupt when you came to power. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It is now very difficult and difficult for you to admit the truth that, in fact, for years, I have witnessed several years in a row where your head, the Gauleiters and the closest to her have practiced each year and at every opportunity, especially summer, on what salaries the MPs receive, what holidays the National Assembly has. There is no populist themes in this here there is no populism, these are very principled things. Now, today, we have principled things. The principle is this: an amendment has been introduced to the Law, which says that subsidies will be one lev. Colleagues, will any of you stand up to disprove me here and hear a thesis supported by facts, evidence, explanations, BSP calculations? If you find one, I might apologize from this BSP stands. But there isn't, there isn't! She's not in the National Assembly, so she's not in the legal peace of the National Assembly. There is another suggestion that I say this for the Bulgarian citizens to bring these things into some debates, in some committees, in some round tables, i.e. to sweep them under the carpet and nobody to do anything about it. And the subject is simple. The topic is that Bulgarian citizens have different views from us on the topic of financing Bulgarian parties. That's the theme. The topic is that a single party with its chairman Mr. Borisov found a solution how to become a real topic and how to decide. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This is the case under the laws of this country. The Council of Ministers adopted a decision, submitted it to the National Assembly, it entered the Chamber. Period! I would very much like to give away just a few sentences to the other beautiful thesis I've been hearing all day, a whole month from everyone: how we're going to sell the parties now. How it's gonna be now that the bandits, the oligarchs, the businessmen, I don't know what they're gonna do. Oh, yeah? Is that the thesis? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What the hell kind of thesis is that, guys? Do we want to live in the rule of law? We in this National Assembly are elected to make the rule of law, state of law. When the law says you can't be funded by criminal activity and you can't spend money on things that aren't allowed to you, and here you develop the thesis that this will happen at all costs, it means that someone lives with the thought that this law doesn't concern him. [[strong lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] and that the legality of this country is not important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. [[Applause from GERB.]] The line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Manev, I tried to write down your words, although it was difficult for me. First of all, dear Mr. Manev, you're lying! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You're lying about BSP going bankrupt, which you'll be responsible for. [[Laughter and excitement in GERB.]] Secondly, in which law does the party say that I refer to GERB, should keep its state subsidy in banks, win from interest and then Mr. Borisov with state money, handing them out through the window of his state jeep, win elections? Thirdly, dear Mrs. Daritkova, have we invited you to speak to us in order to present our reports? Explain to Mr. Manev why you didn't come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u92	Thank you. Second line, Mr. Svilensky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Manev, because you are very fond of dealing with BSP and whether a party is bankrupt or not, there is no way to fail a party. The party is not a trading company. We're getting ideas, principles. There's no way these ideas are gonna go bankrupt. You don't understand that. This can't happen to you. With you, the only thing that can bring you together is money, orders, posts. But in this law, we cannot write that we are giving members of GERB the right to be with only one contract or with just one post of this here we cannot write it down. The party can't go bankrupt. The party makes its budget over the years, carries out the work, receives some support and on the basis of this support is here in Parliament, with 79 MPs that is the truth. I'll tell you the other truth because it was said here. Yes, you entered the policy.. not you personally, your party, with two apartments laid out by Mr. Borisov and Mr. Tsvetanov, but some of them went out with ten apartments each. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Some of them went out with apartments with elevators. A large part of your elite came out with apartments from a wealthy construction company in Sofia's most expensive neighborhood. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] This thing has to be said!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u94	Is that a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u95	A line to you, yes, because you're talking about morality, you're talking about values. Explain it to your voters, explain it to the Bulgarian citizens how in seven years the MP buys...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u96	What does that have to do with my speech?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u97	...apartments in the district of East? Explain it!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u98	Mr. Svilensky, you're too far away from Mr. Manev's statement. Thank you. Third line? You're giving up the third line, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Manev, the main objections to your speech said the colleagues, I will not repeat them. You yourselves understood how untenable your speech was at the moment. I'll allow myself to comment on just a few things from your statement. For example, the fact that BSP is bankrupt. Please compare Bulgaria's economic performance from 2006, 2007, 2008 with some of the current ones, for example, for this management. [[GERB reply: "1996! "]] Don't go back that far, 1996. [[Laughter and excitement in GERB.]] Rather, explain for 2007 "2008." Mrs. Menda Stoyanova is next to you, to tell you whether you have reached these indicators since 2008, which were in the management of BSP, now, 10 years later, or are you still running somewhere after that? Mr. Manev, I will also be very interested when you come to answer from the stands of our lines, to answer the question: Will you express with the same enthusiasm in adopting the budget for 2020 when the Political Party GERB and the Council of Ministers propose in the budget some other subsidy other than one lev? Then what will you explain to this people that you were now populists, and then very well thought about the topic on which we are now speaking to you on the left side of the room, but you are not listening?! Then will you speak, Mr. Manev, to explain to people why you won't... [[Heckling]] Understandably, you're shaking my head, but I hope we're back here and explain to people what you're talking about now from a populist point of view and what you're going to say when we really have to step on things and debate about the future of political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Dear Mr. Manev, please come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u101	I will be brief and calm to answer your questions. A party can go bankrupt in the simplest human logic, not in your so-loving spins. When you have some money to give to the state and you don't have anywhere to give it to, that means you're broke. There's nothing to argue about. First of all, a quick reply to Mr. Gokov that he is my city, he must be running for mayor now. Mr. Gokov, if somewhere a real person meets me on the street and tells me: Mr. Manev, you just made a populist statement, I will pay attention to it. None of what I told you, you didn't understand, and you didn't hear it, and that's understandable. I told you this to understand one thing: populism on this topic today has its peak on the left and I will tell you why. You tell me: have you forgotten after the presidential election those television shows where some socially weak people answered that they did not remember donating some money to a campaign? Did you forget that? Hasn't it ever happened in this country?! Which party did it happen to, which candidate? I don't understand why we're talking nonsense.! We have a proposal that is precise, clear and concrete. We heard your populist attempts to grease it. Here in front of me colleagues have a vision on the subject, they have real proposals. You don't have anything, and you don't even have money in your party. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. [[The National Representative Georgi Gokov wants the floor.]] Mr. Gokov, that was the back. You weren't mentioned in negative terms. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Gokov.]] Mr. Gokov, don't threaten me now. You're not threatening me, are you? Please take your seat. [[National Representative Georgi Gokov speaks outside the microphones.]] Mr. Gokov, this has nothing to do with what has been said so far on the subject. I will give you the floor in the manner of conduct, Mr. Gokov, but I would like to ask you not to deviate from the manner of conduct so that you do not force me to react.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, in order not to force you to react, I personally appeal to you that you are not leading the meeting properly, since you have allowed Mr. Manev in his back-up........................................................................................ to speak outside the subject of what we are discussing of this............................................................................................................................................ He took the liberty of announcing who would be the candidate for mayor of Stara Zagora and who would not, whether I would run or not. That is why I am now withdrawing from the stand and calling on you on this occasion to give me the floor for a personal explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Mr. Gokov, there were several speeches in which... [[National Representative Georgi Gokov speaks outside the microphones.]] Please sit down. There was a personal explanation for what you said. There was a personal explanation. Please! Okay, I already heard that. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Gokov.]] I accept, but please sit down. Let's keep going. [[National Representative Georgi Gokov continues to speak outside the microphones.]] There were speeches before Mr. Manev, and during Mr. Manev, and lines I followed carefully, which deviated from the topic, but I assumed that emotions today may somewhat divert the MPs from the topic we are discussing. Thank you for your understanding, dear Mr. Gokov. Mr. Karadaye, you made a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u105	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The position of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms was clear and clear when the referendum was held in 2016. Only we had a clear position then, but the other political parties preferred to remain in the field of populism. We had a clear position and when the results of the referendum were introduced to the National Assembly in 2017. The position of the DPS has always been not to be overwhelmed in the field of populism, to protect democracy and pluralism by ensuring transparent funding of the activities and campaigns of political parties through state subsidies. As a final result, every party, apart from the DPS, falls into the field of populism, hoping that the DPS is responsible and will cross their populism. Today we say that DPS is not alone to bear the negatives of every populist behavior and proposal of GERB and BSP. Sometimes we will support some of your populist proposals, offering solutions to your irresponsible populist proposals, as is in this particular case. The BSP has called for a vote to show what our position is and we will vote in favour of this request at the moment. All political parties talk about reducing the subsidies of political parties without having any suggestions on how to transparently finance their activities and campaigns, as is in this case the proposal of the Council of Ministers. Because everyone agrees that one lev per year subsidy does not guarantee transparent funding of the activities and campaigns of political parties. We from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we offered zero leva out loud, but we also offered a way for transparent funding of the activities and campaigns of political parties through donations from natural and legal persons. This proposal may seem extreme, but we think it crosses any populism on the subject. I therefore call on the Members of the National Assembly to support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Are there any lines? I can't see. Dear Mr. Jablyanov, you have made a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposal for a correction in the Republican budget is clear, but it is not for financial reasons, it is a proposal that aims at a clear political effect, which unfortunately does not only have a conjunctural character. I want to focus on these larger consequences of such a decision, which we may not be trying to think about at the moment. The introduction of state subsidies to political parties in Europe is the result of overcoming the class conflict in Europe. Dear colleagues, by the middle of the 20th century, parties in Europe are class parties. Each party expresses the interests of a certain class, of a particular public strata. Decades are needed by the Socialists and Social Democrats after the establishment of their party to enter the National Assembly. We have had several MPs who have placed in the Bulgarian National Assembly the interests of Bulgarian workforce, the same with the Bulgarian Agricultural People's Union. They did not rely on state subsidies, but they had the support of the class behind them, the people who wanted to be presented in the legislation in order to protect their interests. I remember that this was the case with our colleagues from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms at the beginning of democracy, who then rightly raised the question of who would protect the interests of this minority in Bulgaria. The parties have their social roots and they can go without state subsidies, but the question is, what are the consequences of this? The state subsidy enables contemporary liberal democracy the party to break away from these narrow class ties and become an expression of broader interests. So the parties in the right turn into folk parties, so the right is a member of the European People's Party with the legitimate claims to express the interests of broad public circles from both the centre and the liberals, and often to the left. This enables today's right-wing party, which rules Bulgaria through this majority, and the government often offers quite significant social solutions to get out of that state of society, which leads to war on everyone, and to irreconcilable social conflicts. Today, with these proposals, the direction can only be one party in its class, each party to dig into its class. BSP has a long history. We have worked with trade unions and cooperatives and other forms of political activity and political struggle. Others will go to... Some are talking about oligarchy here. I don't like that concept. He has Bulgarian entrepreneurship. I am convinced that Bulgarian entrepreneurship in its vast part consists of responsible people who also think about Bulgaria, the legal order, although not in this hall, have a public feeling. Therefore, when discussing such changes, we need to find this intersection between private and public interest so that it does not come to those historical clashes that, although we have not witnessed, have taken place. Finally, a few words about the referendum, as it is about democracy. The referendum was not valid, that is, in legal peace it did not take place. It was some kind of consultation that could be taken into account the position of the BSP. I then expressed a position on this tribune, even used a slightly stronger concept in terms of the referendum, and indeed some of the proposed issues were cancelled by the Constitutional Court, if you remember, as anti-constitutional. It is true that the referendum was on the border of constitutionality. Today, the proposal for budget changes brings us to a classic choice, nothing new in this work is going to move towards liberal or social democracy in our social development. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u108	Please finish your thought, dear Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u109	The outcome is social democracy. Liberal democracy cannot solve these issues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u110	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Markov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u111	Dear colleagues! I am not a party member, but I have still been a judge of the Constitutional Court and a member of the Grand National Assembly. I want to bring two important issues into the debate. One: why did the Bulgarian Constitution when it introduced multi-partyism, political pluralism in Bulgaria explicitly point out that only parties can carry out the political will of the citizens and not NGOs did not foresee a constitutional text with which to oblige the state to subsidise the parties? The answer is only one answer is not a failure of the Grand National Assembly. All older colleagues from all parties remember 1990, 1991. To say that the state will spare the parties, to even think about it?! It was the end of the Grand People's Assembly who could escape and the others at the bell of Alexander Nevsky. How did it happen that in the first free elections in 1990, more than 90% of Bulgarian citizens voted to be without a subsidy? How did BSP win the election by over 2.5 million? If we say: BSP had a resource because it was a long time connected with the party state in those years, the SDS was like a church mouse. They gave us a building of Rakovski, 12. 13 ladi. I won at Lulin. Our headquarters was in a trap post. How come people gave soul and heart to politics? Yordan Sokolov, our famous lawyer, every Friday at 1300 hours, I take him to the Journal of Democracy to donate the UDF. Vilma the cashier became more famous than Dr. Zhelev. The next day, in the House of Democracy, whole sheets of donors! That's what I could do, that's what I gave the UDF a typewriter for the newspaper. My late wife says, "Don't give me the Continental." I'm Novishriki to your mother, it's a gift from your grandfather. How come we, the 39, 2 million in 82 percent activity, without absolutely no subsidies, the boats broke, couldn't open the windows, won the election? After that Mr. Videnov won them over 2 million BSP, with great activity, without subsidies! Then ODS with great activity and no subsidies! So the King came. I will never forget 26 March 2001. We meet with him at the Hotel Boris in Geneva and I ask him: "As you will appear in elections, Your Majesty, who will do your campaign?".......................... by jumping this king:. I hate this word, I will not do this campaign against anyone!........................... Spas Rusev gave him an office on September 6th, near the church to church, and to the police to protect him. And now the big question is: why was there no subsidy interest in the parties, the parties were strong, there was a lot of activity, and why are the parties weak and there is no activity in the other parties following the subsidy votes?! Why can no party today, despite state subsidies, consider taking 2 million?! No party today, despite subsidies, can think of a million and a half! GERB barely jumped out in the last three votes over a million. Why do we have to cut the parties by 1% to use the poor electoral system and the low threshold of 4%, to fight, to enter as the Reformation bloc here, one in opposition, one in government, to strike after a stroke of parliamentary democracy and turn it into a parliamentary asylum?! I don't want to charge my taxes to the DSB party that killed the SDS! She doesn't deserve that kind of reward. And now the big question. You'll say, "It was a romantic time when songs were being sung, no one was paying the composers, no one was paying the singers." He was romantic. Now why isn't he romantic? We are members of the EU, NATO members, aren't we? Let's sing another song, but there's no muse in the composers! There's no muse in the performers! Why is there no muse despite state subsidies? Why have the parties reached this level? That's the big question. That is why I support Borisov's proposal that we need a financial diet! You need a little bit: ♪ And onion, water, drink ♪ Hyah, Partyo, Hyah! A little looking for new ideas and new people, then thinking about going back to subsidies. As for the referendum, excuse me, fellow Members, the fellow Member who said it was not mandatory could not reach the threshold of validity. Excuse me, 2.5 million Bulgarian citizens could not make all parliamentary parties and all non-parliamentary ones. We need to make the parties attractive again, interesting. The Bulgarian Socialist Party to fulfill its commitment I have also spoken with Mr. Zarkov. Bring it in this mixed system, 120:120, let's liven things up a little bit, get more interesting, have songs again! Because there's no place to go anymore. We've walked in everywhere. His mother is not to go out. That's why I'm going to support the bill. Again, the big question is: without subsidies, great activity, strong parties; with subsidies, weak activity, weak parties. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u112	Thank you, dear Mr. Markov. - What's the line? Professor Hristov, Popov. Mr. Siderov, I'll give you the floor after that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u113	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Markov, my friend, a very important matter has been raised by you. Unfortunately, I don't see a reaction, and I don't see an understanding from the auditorium. We've turned around. You'll forgive this word in technology. We turned our backs on whether the political influence of one political force or another depends on BGN 2. up or 3 leva. Down. The big problem is that the Bulgarian political parties, if you make a referendum at the moment and ask for the opinion of the citizens, and ask: should we deprive them of any subsidy, something more to pay, be sure that it will be the second. There is a deep hatred for the Bulgarian political representation. Hate. And this is a product of 30 years old. The point is that political parties are in such a pathetic, miserable, unloved state for a very simple reason that very little is being said about. Political parties have as their main task to present-st-le-wat. The question is, who are they? This is the simplest and most demasculating question that no one answers. Why? Because the interests they claim to represent are not their real interests. And their real interests are not to be shown at all. Therefore, scissors between what is stated and what is real are filled with demagogy. The romantic time will never come back from 1989, 1990, 1991. Bulgarian democracy is collapsing down the road to authoritarianism. We're only at the beginning of this road. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u114	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Mr. Popov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u115	Thank you. Dear Mr. Markov, you have mentioned several times that Bulgarian parties were food-fed or do not want to be fed with government money. The change in the Law on the Financing of Political Parties is precisely because they were fed by non-state interests, from money outside the state. Now the political parties return to this level. Why didn't you say anything about the 2005 debate and before that? Of course, you return your memoirs to the Constitution shortly after. Yes, but the Constitution, Mr. Markov, and you, as part of the Grand National Assembly that created this act, should know that it also has fundamental principles, one of which is pluralism. There is no way to protect pluralism in Bulgaria. That is why this Law on Political Parties was adopted. With regard to the diet of the company Mr. Markov and all Bulgarians, you know that the financial diet of GERB is high-calorie, multimillion, again passing through the state and the close to the state treasury business, which will finance GERB from now on! Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u116	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Let's alternate the lines as well as the speeches. Line, Mr. Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u117	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Markov, one addition to you. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] There is no exception to yes, I replicate the fact that there are parties currently winning elections without subsidies. This is the Bulgarian Socialist Party in the presidential elections they supported the initiative committee, which promoted President Radev, with which the current President gave up the benefit of the BSP subsidy. And the elections were won by Mr. Radev, and this did not prevent him from gaining the trust of the Bulgarian citizens. There are non-subsidized parties that appeared in the current European elections and brought in MEPs this is DSB, Mr. Radan Kanev. Although they claim that the parties will fall into slavery to oligarchy. They did not receive subsidies for two years and, nevertheless, brought in a European MEP.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u118	There's piles before that.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u119	I don't know where they got the funding. This is already a question of the Law and showing how they did their campaign. Otherwise, they had a pretty active campaign, and media, and videos, and so on. I assume you're making an application that in the local elections, you'll be putting up candidates for mayors again through initiative committees, which means you won't be financing them through your grant. I'm sure you didn't give your grant any money to Mr. Radev during the presidential election! It was funded by working class people, socially weak and retired. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So, Mr. Markov, there's enthusiasm and the song still echoes! Thank you. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u120	Thank you. Mr. Markov, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u121	I thank Professor Hristov, with whom we are friends, for actually adding my speech. We must be very careful what we do in this Parliament if we are to become interesting. Because 1992, a match Bulgaria with a strong Bulgarian national team, in the sports hall in Lom we were with Professor Chirkov, Elka Konstantinova and Stoyan Ganev was crowded. People did not go to the movies, to the game and to the theater to listen to the Grand National Assembly. And what did they hear here the first week after the election? They heard that some foreign minister slapped the Bulgarian government. We should always be aware that no foreigner, no European Commission chief, European Parliament, president and prime minister can give slaps to Bulgarian politicians. Such a slap can only hit the Bulgarian people and he hit him for the eighth time in a row at the Bulgarian Socialist Party. [[Applause from GERB.]] As for Mr. Popov. Dear colleague, Bulgaria is the only country I want from the platform of parliament to express my gratitude to all Bulgarian journalists and media: we are in a permanent political campaign. Play first German ARD, ZDF. Second German, Rai Uno, first Spanish, nowhere is 365 days, perhaps without Christmas and Easter, from morning to evening politics free of charge, in all media, until busy. So thank the Bulgarian journalists for saving money to the state. politicized are our televisions from morning to night, everyone tells each other what hurts. Everyone looking for ideas, looking for performers to get more attractive. Until then, the tap must be stopped.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Markov. Mr. Siderov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u123	I thought I'd retire from politics, give in to calmer activities, but my old associate and friend Georgi Markov reminded me that it's actually okay to have some other veteran in this room, to remind me of what happened. Dear Jorro, I can turn this way, I will add the memory with how 1990, without being a party member of any party, I was a candidate in Belogradchik one-mandated majority district against Alexander Lilov. Then the first person in the BCP-BSP almost beat him. I went there with a fellow activist who gave me a car because Petko Simeonov refused me. He says no cars. I'd fuck him and say, "Okay, I'll take the train." One of them came and drove me. It was, really, I remember these times, and they're indispensable as a memory, as an emotion. The point is that all these millions of Bulgarians who then came out and who literally carried us in their arms were waiting for a change in which there was both justice and social justice and a country to take care of its people. Not that the previous country didn't care, but socialism was getting tired of it, maybe the management of a layer that they called red bourgeoisia, and then it turned out to be the better option, I think for many people it already is. Today, what are we discussing about not having subsidies or being a single vote? Why did it come to this? It is very simple because two and a half million Bulgarians voted to do so. Two and a half million, this is more than the votes for GERB and BSP put together. We can't ignore them, we can only ask ourselves why they want us to? Here I heard colleagues saying: yes, people want no subsidies, parties are bad. Why did they become bad? Because they didn't do what the Bulgarian people expected of them "We didn't do," because I write myself including this. Yes, I have joined the policy in force later in 2005, and to tell you only my associates here, seven of us are from the Ataka, and our party will vote in favour of the Council of Ministers' proposal. Our party from 2005 to 2009 worked without a claim for information to the greeters, to all of you, dear colleagues, I say this because we were a coalition, two party successors, as with the King, they embezzled the subsidy and for us there was zero leva, zero, not one. However, during this period Ataka Party introduced three MEPs to the European Parliament, 21 MPs in the Bulgarian Parliament, and I personally, my mercy, was on a runout against Georgi Parvanov in 2006 in the presidential elections.... who forgot to remind him................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. How did we do? Here, of course, is the time to thank Valeri Simeonov and his help. But she wasn't the only one, many people came and offered help because they felt that Attack Party gave them hope for some change. It so happened that Ataka Party did not take power in Bulgaria and did not rule. That's what the people wanted, that's how it happened, I can't be mad at my own people. But today we have to answer the question: why do the people in Bulgaria do not want the parties to receive any leva, zero leva? By the way, 2012, before the proposal of the DPS, we have submitted here a proposal for zero leva subsidy with the clarification of the media presentation of the parties to be free of charge, as well as clubs and this organizational logistics, which is needed for party activities. This can be added now, but at the moment we have to accept what the Bulgarian people, not Mr. Borisov, the Bulgarian people in the face of two and a half million people have asked for. We can't cross them off and say, no, you're nobody, your opinion doesn't matter. From there to work and act to make the next referendum two and a half million Bulgarians say: we want 100 BGN. out loud for the parties because they are pushing Bulgaria forward. If we work properly, we'll get to that point. For now, the people say, no, we don't want you to get money! Well, let's do it without subsidies! Whether this will be accompanied by donations, whether American, Swiss, Finnish or any other system, let us consider it, let us really have debates in society, but at the moment we are obliged to support the request of two and a half Bulgarians not to have a subsidy for the parties. And then to earn such subsidies that, as they say, banquets to give. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u124	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Iankov, come in for a statement. There's no Mr. Iankov. Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am listening with interest to the debate and I see how conveniently we play with the referendum and with the voice of two and a half million Bulgarian citizens, but no one is counting that this vote was a protest against the political system, and that this was a kind of appeal of all Bulgarian citizens why do you keep us at the bottom of the table of income and poverty, why are we the poorest? This was the voice of Bulgarian citizens. And the answer is very simple because of the existing political hypocrisy and, I would say, cynicism in the way the problems of Bulgarian citizens are solved, populist. And today your decision is absolutely populist. You want to wash your conscience why you keep the Bulgarian citizens and Bulgaria at the bottom of the table on income and poverty, with a simple, simplified solution we remove the subsidies. Convenient, but false, I'd say. And this will keep hope and euphoria in Bulgarian citizens for a year or two, but this will not solve the problems of poverty, corruption, if you will, and all other problems, negatives that accompany the Bulgarian citizens for 30 years. I would like to ask here, citizens for European development, where is your European self-consciousness? Why is it that you lightly delete a long, painful European experience of the way the political system operates? Where is your European self-awareness with the way you propose today to resolve a fundamental, basic question?? How should the political system in Bulgaria function? With a decision on the leg, insolently imposed by one person, where is your European self-awareness? There is nothing democratic about it in the way you approach it and nothing European. Because, proposed in the middle of the year, without any debate, without any analysis of how the political system works, which are the deficits of the political system today, what would be the consequences of this radical change of the model of funding, of the functioning of the political system. It's populism, I'd say, in action. I would like to ask you: today without debate, without seeking political consensus, what is your goal? I have one single answer in the middle of the year, the way you want to apply it, brazenly and presumptuously, you want a professional victory in the local elections. You want a professional victory because you know that the limit of Bulgarian citizens is exhausted, but, again, this will not solve the fundamental issues that the society wants today.... why are they at the bottom of the table 12 years as a member of the European Union? Dear citizens for European development, at least listen to your partners, from which you could gain endless experience. Because, I say again, with this decision today, in an hour you will cross out a long-standing painful European experience and you will cross out what the Bulgarian citizens have been aiming for for for 30 years for democracy, pluralism, European, modern Bulgaria. We're very far away with the populist decisions you're offering today. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u126	Thank you, dear Mrs. Lecheva. - What's the line? Here's a line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u127	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Lecheva, a very short line to you and I refer here to statistics. It is a very simple answer why Bulgarian citizens have so much to catch up with our European partners and friends and citizens of Europe on incomes. Because gross domestic product per capita from 1980 to 1988 is three thousand dollars per capita. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Then from 1988 to 2002, when much of the management and implementation of mass privatization is in this period, it is $4,300, and then we can see growth. Only when I refer to 2009, then it really is $6800, up to over $8,000 in recent years! Then, when the Bulgarian economy really started to work, then the incomes of Bulgarian citizens increased and in the last four years there was a two-digit growth of the incomes of the population. And we can say this year with the sustainable growth of gross domestic product in recent years, which is close to 4%, this year the first quarter statistics are 4.6%. Therefore, I say again, look what the start was, what the previous name of the Bulgarian Socialist Party left us and what we still have to catch up on. I think with sustainability and work we'll do it. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u128	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Second line? Mr. Stoinev, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Lecheva, in the end, when measuring the well-being of a people, the purchasing power is also measured, each citizen with a certain amount of what he can buy in the basket of consumer goods. There is no greater poverty and misery than today's last 10 years, and that is the opinion of trade unions. [[GERB noise and lines]] , and all employers' organizations. There is no such big split between the poorest and the richest people, Mrs. Lecheva, of what it has been for the past 10 years! That's the truth people need to know. Let us add that there is one indicator that is a shame for a Member State of the European Union when we are approaching African countries. That's how you measure well-being! Here we need to talk about healthcare, whether you have the right to medical services, health services, do we currently have some of the most illiterate children in the world, do we currently have the most young people who neither work nor study? That's what we're talking about, prosperity. Here are the real indicators, Mrs. Lecheva, which should be appreciated if we want to be statesmen, not just nominal numbers. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u130	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Popov for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Lecheva, you have missed another important attestation for the whole of Bulgaria and for the government, and this is the assessment of the European Commission for Bulgaria on access to health care, access to education or rather the lack of one, levels of corruption in Bulgaria, levels of political corruption in Bulgaria, and of the entire background of the one lev or the elimination of the subsidy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u132	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mrs. Lecheva, for the back, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u133	I want to address the right hand, Europeans in today's parliament. You may have forgotten that 2007, when we entered the European Union and when we became full members, we had the same economic indicators with Romania, which is before the last, but Romania is already moving away, I would say, by the simplest indicator, a minimum wage. Tell that to your fellow citizens when you go to the meetings that Romanians today have 900 leva. minimum wage, for 12 years members of the European Union and 10 years of GERB management. This is the simplest indicator, and the Bulgarians are the poorest, with the lowest income and the lowest minimum wage. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u134	Thank you, dear Mrs. Lecheva. Docent Ivanov, come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u135	Madam President, honourable Members! I have listened very carefully to the debate from the beginning today, when a sign of the subsidy for political parties was given. I listen very carefully to my colleagues on the right and on the left, and all the time I wonder this ridiculous crying on the left, which is heard for what it is. Come out and tell yourself that you want to hold 11 leva. a subsidy because, first of all, your party is bankrupt. [[Applause from GERB. Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yes, yes, that's right, Mrs. Ninova. That's right! Your party is bankrupt. Come out and say: "We want 11 BGN" - and not here to go out and make populistic speeches. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The whole time we listen here, we talk about concern for the Bulgarian people. Madam President, I would like to ask one such question. The political party, which is currently pleading for what, since there is nothing written in black and white, submitted to the National Assembly, listening to lines here, speeches. I want to ask a simple question: where is your money because you are looking for GERB money? We're good housekeepers, we're good owners, and where did your money go? For television, which television is a trading company. You don't like it, but it's true. You gave money there, you gave money for real estate. Where's that money? They're gone! As many times as you've been on stage as governors, so many times you've bankrupted the state. It's the truth! You talk to me about money, what is the financial condition of the Bulgarian people. Let's remember 1996 and your winged party. Then my salary at the Military Medical Academy was three dollars! Three dollars a month! The missionaries took a dollar. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yes, yes, Mrs. Ninova, we won't talk about your options. You're great, that's why your party went bankrupt right now. I want to say something from here, because we are talking about party subsidies, because I am empathetic, not you, Mrs. Nino, I am empathetic. When we created the Political Party GERB, I should tell you, 2005 when the Mayor of Sofia was promoted by the Initiative Committee Mr. Borisov, it appeared against him not just anyone but Mrs. Tatiana Doncheva, if you have forgotten, because today we are talking about history in this Chamber. Let me join you as one of the creators of our party. Tatiana Doncheva lost 68% to Mr. Borisov in the elections. And who was on the Initiative Committee of Mrs. Tatiana Doncheva from BSP? You will remember the man who raised Mrs Cornelia Ninova, I will not speak with names. You'll figure it out. He was the chairman of the election headquarters. I'm moving on. Then we won the election without a penny. Then we won three consecutive choices, including for MEPs, without a single lev! What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? That it's not the money in the parties that determines what consistency there will be. Here it was very well said by Mr. Markov about ideology and consistency when parties win. Parties don't win when they don't have ideas, when they don't have cases, they only have fairy tales and populism. In today's day, ladies and gentlemen, you talk all the time, but don't say out loud what you're here for and what you're fighting for. For one thing, say it out loud: preserve the party subsidy! You don't like a leva, deposit 15 leva.! Import because GERB is consistent. Here were spoken and spelled words such as the play, the conscience, the poverty, the corruption, the populism, the self-awareness, the words spoken by people who here half are materially wealthier, not to say, of all political parties that are outside the general. More than that. We are talking about a European party. Yes, we are an absolute European party on everything, as we listen to the voice of the people, while you two and a half million go out and say, a large part of your voters probably say: there is no money here, there was no money for education. Yes, the political party GERB did so to raise education in the first place. It was planted here, so as a line, by the way, we're not concerned about education. When have teachers been better, when have teachers been more respected in society since then? [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm talking in public! Not with you, not with you, my dear, when the salary was one dollar! Let them hear it because people forget and are normal, worried about everyday life. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Madam President. That's why I want to say: you on the left have no opinion, no money, bankrupt! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u136	Thank you, Professor Ivanov! Mr. Chenchev, first line, second line, Mrs. Lecheva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u137	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, first of all, I offer you my apologies because I have just pointed a finger at you, for which I apologize that does not appear in my upbringing. Since here, from this tribune, you drive on memories and remember a story, if memory serves, please answer me: Is it true that on 28 November 2013 GERB bought a car for 688 thousand. lv.? [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "How much, how much?"]] Six hundred eighty-eight thousand leva! On 28 November 2013 GERB purchased a car for nearly 700 thousand. lv., first! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Secondly, Mr. Ivanov, with all due respect, I do not know your material condition, but again, if memory serves, is it true that perhaps because of your financial situation or not, because you are now driving the latest model BMW X6...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u138	Mr. Chenchev, this has nothing to do with the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u139	Yeah, yeah. To Mr. Ivanov: Is it true that you have been removed from your position because you have received an extremely expensive mobile phone? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u140	Mrs. Lecheva, come in. I think the level of debate has dropped a lot. Mr. Gokov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u141	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I want to tell you that here on the right you are on the road but on the wrong path, about the way you are leading this debate. Here the question is not why BSP has no money, but why party GERB has a deposit 27 million and makes a campaign, extremely expensive campaign? I'll tell you in Veliko Tarnovo you had 63 billboards, we had 3 billboards! What do you pay for your campaign? Why do you keep a deposit, how and with whose money you pay your expensive campaigns? And I will tell you again that you are on your way, but on the wrong track, because you are confusing the debate about the state and the way the political system works, with cheap populism, as if you are on a free promotion against certain services, goods, actions and solutions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. Mr. Gokov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable President, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I am surprised by your emotional speech. But you've told a lot of untruths. Since you claim that we have gone bankrupt, compare economic indicators, and understand how we have gone bankrupt, in the years 2005 - 2009 and now. Because Mr. Manev didn't answer, but perhaps you can answer me about the current economic indicators, have we reached the 2008 levels? What kind of bankruptcy are you talking about? Next moment. Apparently, Mr. Ivanov, you focused and only got to the point. 1 of § 1 of the proposal of the Council of Ministers, without having regard to the proposals of the other political parties between the first and second votes. Because you're asking, what is BSP fighting for? Well, it's written there, Mr. Ivanov, read it and you'll see in the following paragraphs for reducing VAT on basic food products and medicines, for tax relief on young families to improve Bulgaria's demographics, aid for the poorest in the country. That's what you're fighting for, Mr. Ivanov, BSP in this case. We've even written it if there's anyone to read! And when you talk about how we spent the money on a TV station it is clear that it is funded by BSP, unlike you, who finance all television stations, only behind the scenes and subversives [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] "Tv Europe" and so on...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u144	Please, no product positioning, Mr. Gokov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u145	But you don't do it in public without people knowing it, you just do it sneakyly. There is nothing wrong with asking for a grant of one lev, to return the 27 million you have on the deposit and to start from an equal start, although it is still not going to be an equal start, because you, as Vesela Lecheva also told you, are blackmailing the business and he finances your campaigns, gives you the opportunity to accumulate money on the deposit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u146	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Ivanov, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u147	The first person who asked me a question: when political arguments fail, then it starts with personal arguments. So I'm gonna stop here, and he's gonna understand very well. To check the manifests. I'm done here. Mr. Gokov, we are talking about the political parties right now. (Replicates from BSP for Bulgaria: "For the car of GERB, for the car!") Yeah, yeah, I'll say. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u148	Please be quiet, colleagues! Listen to the back. Here you go, Professor Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u149	Mr. Gokov, we are looking at the financing of political parties. You don't have a single offer. Again, you didn't understand. You're proposing VAT for what we're not talking about right now, for food, for kindergartens, and we're currently fully focused... [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What's your offer? There's no such proposal! Secondly, we want there to be legality, there to be transparency in funding, and not to finance campaigns of socially weak. Thank you. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u150	Thank you. Mrs. Ninova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u151	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In this House many laws have been passed... one brought by the opposition, which are defined by the government as bad, or vice versa... one of the rulers that we have not approved. But at least since I've been in Parliament, it seems to me that for the first time in this House is being debated, debated and a law will be passed against which all parliamentary parties are. Look at your positions and understand that all parliamentary parties have essentially spoken against the reduction of the subsidy of 11 BGN. This is a precedent in the Bulgarian Parliament. Why, then, will this law be passed? Nobody wants it, and they'll pass. The explanation is: because the people want it. Dear colleagues ruling, in fact everyone without BSP, because you are in agreement under this law, I will express the opinion that I do not believe you and that is not your motive. Because nearly two million, also Bulgarians, want to recalculate their pensions and we have repeatedly offered it to you, and this opinion of this people - two million pensioners - does not matter to you. It is strange, perhaps because of Mr. Tsvetanov's absence and lack of coordination, all colleagues from GERB today disprove Mr. Borisov. Looks like I'm the only one who's gonna be quoting and supporting him today. For example, you asked questions: who said that the oligarchs would take over the party; BSP had gone bankrupt and so on? Who said that?! Boyko Borisov! Boyko Borisov. And I support him. Here on June 6th in parliament he said, quote: "It won't be long before the parties become owned by businessmen. "I will not quote the speeches of other leaders, perhaps only of Mr Karadayi from today, who said that their proposal, if I can sum it up in a single sentence, is a overcapping of populism. If you want populism, we want populism. Dear colleagues, we are gathered here to build a state, to maintain a legal order, a constitutional order. What are we doing? We're outbiding ourselves on populism, you admit that business will take over the parties, and yet you will. Obviously, it is not because the people want it, because in other cases you do not respect the people. Maybe it's because you deliberately want to let the business into political life. Here I will point out a contradiction to those who decide today, and this is DPS and GERB, the Patriots are your fig leaf. Just two months ago you explained to us and the Bulgarian people that the duties of the mufti should be simplified, to stop external financing and to give them a state subsidy in order not to have an external influence on the religions in Bulgaria. With what arguments are you opening external funding for the parties today and won't that be the influence of foreign interests in Bulgaria through the highest class in Bulgaria? The political decision that should guarantee the sovereignty of the state? Dear colleagues of GERB, you are not listening to your Prime Minister and that is it! Looks like we're watching him more. You claim that he won elections without a single lev with both the apartments of Tsvetanov and Borisov. On the same day when he said: "The business will now take over the parties" said the following: "Fortunately, when I was a candidate and elected mayor, "Hans Seidel" and "Conrad Adenauer" sponsored our campaign. [[Heckling]] External interests have sponsored GERB to start in politics. Thank God, European and legitimate, but imagine that they are not European and legitimate?! Because in this law, an honourable big coalition of all parties except BSP, you do not put any restrictions on the business of being one who takes public procurement, whether they should not owe taxes to the treasury, whether they should be outside interests, whether they should pass any other interests, there should be no restrictions. The whole world can freely enter and invest in Bulgarian parties. Who are these parties going to be loyal to?! Those who endure them to exist and not die or the voters who sent us here?! Why are you doing this? I ask that question again and I think there is one goal and that is the opposition. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And as it turns out, you all together, the opposition turns out to be BSP. I'm asking for a few seconds to finish. Dear colleagues, I have been part of this process for three years now. First it was the carrot: "Come with us to the government, take positions and money. " - We refused you because of your unprincipled policy. [[Noise, shouting and lines from GERB.]] The second was the staff for three years punishing us for fighting, slandering, insults, including your current gum for the bankruptcy of BSP. And that's why you couldn't crush the opposition. [[Noise and lines.]] Now you've decided a financial punishment to destroy the opposition. Okay, we're gonna make it, we're gonna make it. But the big question is not about BSP. Today the BSP is opposition tomorrow it will be you. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] The point is, you're touching the foundations of statehood, the rule of law...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u153	...and the Constitution, the multiparty system, the openness and the work of the parties in the name of the people. With what you're doing, we're not going to solve the most important issue and the most important pain, the backstage and the parallel state. Not only do you not decide it, you increase it!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u154	The weather, Mrs. Ninova, one minute more talk, you will have an opportunity in the back...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u155	With this funding, killing the opposition...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u156	In the back, you'll be able to tell what you think. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB and OP. People's representative Cornelia Nino speaks with microphones off.]] Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? Mr. Angelov, then Mr. Velchev. I'm asking you to observe the time!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u157	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Ms. Ninova, regularly in your speeches, you bind the DPS to VMRO or the Patriots as a whole, which is just funny and not a fact. When you talk about DPS, you need to remember the management along with them.. We have never managed with DPS and we will never do so. [[Noise and lines.]] The other one. We have a concrete proposal to solve the problem of financing the political parties in Bulgaria. You reject this proposal of ours and will not support it. That is, you don't want to solve the problem, you want to deepen it maybe because of your personal ego or for another reason. I have no idea why you are doing this, but if you really want to solve this problem, support the proposal of Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. If you're talking about being a nationally responsible politician, do it. Go out and say it, do it. Why wouldn't we? Because it was proposed by us and not by you? And on the occasion of the fig leaf, yours fell on the European elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u158	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Mr. Velchev, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u159	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Nino, I am glad that you are all following the statements of the leader Borisov. But I hope you'll take notes. If you've been following his exact statements, that means you've confirmed your nickname again because you've just... [[Noise, shouting and applause. Replies from the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev.]] Does it hurt?! She just told lies out of this tribune. I'll tell you why I'm saying this, and she'll prove me wrong. You're talking about the years we didn't have a party for elections. You talk about the weather and mention that Mr. Borisov said that at that time the two funds Konrad Adenauer and Hans Seidel sponsored the campaigns. That's a complete lie he never said that thing! First of all... [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Are you only listening to your leader?! Don't you take notes and write down what Borisov said?! First, Konrad Adenauer was then assisting the DSD, the right-wing parties. "Hans Seidel" helped us in the sense of not campaigning, Madam President of the BSP, and they can help us by their laws in organizing round tables, events, training and so on. This is by no means campaign support. And this lie that you've told here, please take it back, because I can't believe in anything else, let alone your constituents. They can't believe you. You lie all the time. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Applause by GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u160	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. Third line? Mrs. Ninova, come on in and get your coat. After Mrs. Nino's doppelganger, I'll give her half an hour off.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u161	Mr. Velchev, it is explained that you are not following my public appearances, but you are confirming once again that you are not following those of your own leader. I'll just remind you that I condemned him for what he said, Mrs. Lie and I have a judgment that I didn't lie. So, refrain from this thing, we condemned Mr. Borisov! He owes me a payment, so stop with Mrs. Lie. Including I sued him for never being SDS. So, if you please, and do not repeat this, the court has ruled on this matter. Now I will start from the more elementary.. fell our fig leaf of the European elections. Yeah, with one MP more. The only party in Bulgaria with one member in excess. And the only party with more votes than the previous elections. So, IMRO, keep calm about this! [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u162	Silence in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u163	It was at the European elections who could do it. As for the other, I will quote literally the Prime Minister so that there are no misunderstandings: I am so aware of these games, I would have been in the elections for mayor without one lev. Luckily, then, Hans Seidel and Konrad Adenauer sponsored us at that time. And I think we're gonna stop this argument. I trust Borisov more than Velchev. Get to the point. You all keep saying we haven't made any proposals. Can I now say why you're lying? Mrs. Daritkova, did we invite you to talk, discuss? [[strong noise, shouting and lines from GERB]] with specific suggestions and calculations? Dear Patriots, have we invited you to discussions and discussions? DPS, did we invite you? Did we take this initiative? Did you refuse to come to see numbers, finances, opportunities, so let's cut the subsidy, because the public really wants us to spend less money, but not make the parties dependent on the mafia? Did we invite you?! You refused to come. Did you invite us to your behind-the-scenes conversations? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, That is to say, everything is already clear to the public, and you have all gathered together and decided against the opposition. Dear colleagues, we have argued enough today and fought where with serious arguments, where not there. I call on you: let us stop this, let us sit down wisely, with arguments and all statesmen to resolve the issue of reducing the subsidy, but let us not let outside Bulgaria and internal mafia and whatever other interests you want in the country's policy. We have the highest goal. First, the sovereignty of the state; second, the rule of law and the multiparty system so as to meet the expectations of society. We can do this. There's a solution, as long as there's reason. If there isn't, you accept what you want, and political life goes into extremely bad... [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u164	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Personal explanation Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u165	Is there going to be a break?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u166	Now, after the personal explanation, I'll give you 30 minutes off. [[Noise and lines.]] Quiet, please! [[Noise and lines.]] Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u167	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I see the tensions are increasing. The opposition colleagues are almost hysterical. Please calm down. [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] and keep your cool. We have given you the opportunity to make all the arguments, although some of which have nothing to do with today's debate. Mrs. Ninova, I have your letter and it is public in which you invited us to discuss the amount of the subsidy. This happened within the framework of the proposals between the first and second votes, which you had not done. What does it mean to discuss?! You should have made concrete proposals, taken advantage of the legislative procedure and then started a transparent discussion of your proposals. Not only did you not make those when you invited us, but you did not then make any proposals. And now here, as real sailors, you're defending your party subsidy of £11. and this is the fact that will become known to all Bulgarian citizens. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Because all the other explanations, explanations, explanations that you make actually cover one.. Your party cannot cope without these 11 levs, because unwisely and illogically you have spent your subsidy. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u168	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. Thirty-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u169	Colleagues, please take your seats! The Quaestors, invite the Members of the National Assembly to the Chamber. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u170	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I am making a procedure to end the debate on a paragraph, as there have been enough comments, the opinions that I believe should have been heard have been expressed. To end the debates following the speeches of the three colleagues who signed up before the break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u171	Mr. Chenchev, Mr. Stoinev and Mr. Yankov. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u172	Thank you, Madam President. I'm making a counterproposal to this. It is good to have a debate on this topic. Let us, at least, here in the Chamber, take place such a debate. Apparently, it didn't happen last week. The bill has been introduced since yesterday in plenary today, at least let there be a full debate on this topic. There must be more Members who would like to make their speeches here in plenary. After all, this clearly does not concern the 11 leva, it concerns the political system and pluralism in Bulgaria.. an important, extremely important topic! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u173	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. I put to the vote Mr. Ivanov's proposal first to end the debates after the speeches by the gentlemen Chenchev, Stoinev and Iankov. Vote 176 MPs: 114, against 59, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Mr. Chenchev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u174	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have been debating for almost three hours and I think it is necessary for Bulgarian democracy. But what kind of utopia do we witness today?! Representatives of the ruling majority use the term "social justice" to simply disbelieve! From their mouths it sounds almost like woody iron! After using this term, we are told that they have listened to the voice of nearly two and a half million Bulgarians and are consistent! Just wondering how they heard them after two and a half years?! If this is their consistency, when they are comfortable, and yours, Madam President, because today you are an importer of this point, you are simply covering up, all of you of the ruling majority, the criminal would say a mistake to the Minister of Finance, which led to all of this. He, in turn, was hiding behind the back of one of his higher officials at the Ministry, who, you see, had admitted this inaccuracies. But it's not inexcusable and it's not accidental! However, the Minister of Finance Mr. Goranov hid anyway, the entire ministry led by him is missing apropo.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u175	Your speech!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u176	Madam President, I have called on you in a procedure to call representatives of the Ministry to parliament. Is this the attitude of the Ministry to the National Assembly? Is that how you treat the legislator and the ruling majority?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u177	Let's get to the point, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u178	Yeah, basically, because it all has its connection. There is no way we can agree to do this in such an urgent way.. the proposal for zero leva, the nullification of the party subsidy, and the proposal for one lev, when you from the ruling majority reported to all your press conferences that there would be public discussion and when you claimed that you heard the voice of the people, why didn't you hear all the organizations that wanted an open debate on this topic? And why did you enter this viewing point this morning in this emergency order? By the way, today, in the main rhetoric of the representatives of the ruling majority, their speakers, or their main speakers, are non-party. Why am I asking myself? Here was a talk about a Swiss model, about an American model, which in countries with another type of management may be appropriate, only in Bulgaria, in Garmen, let's say, the very respectable residents of Garmen, are used before 10 November to a single party system, and now there is a one-party. Is that what you're walking towards, gentlemen and ladies of the ruling majority? Apropo, the Swiss government, for those who do not know, has exactly seven members. This is the entire Swiss government. Perhaps if our government here one day reaches such a ratio of seven representatives, Prime Minister Borisov with one lamb, he likes to buy with lambs, he will buy the whole government a treat along with members of his own party. I therefore call on you to consider your vote, as there can be no social justice in a political system that is thrown into the hands of oligarchic circles. There's no way that's gonna happen, and you all know that very well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u179	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Stoinev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u180	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We from BSP for Bulgaria and asked for consultations, such as civilized people, especially when we have to solve such a big, serious issue in order to present our views. It is not precisely and directly to sit here and argue about a specific amount, but whether this amount supports the political model in particular. These consultations were to continue with the representatives of the National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria, but the Prime Minister has obviously rejected these consultations and now this notorious lev is forced again. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is not so much the question of how much the subsidy will be, but on one side is populism, and especially the desire to crush the opposition. The second part is, of course, whether the very functioning of the political system should change. For the very functioning of the political system alarmed NGOs, academics, institutes, analysts, people who would not say that they support BSP, but at the same time you do not want to hear their opinion. The environment, ladies and gentlemen, is changing. Why is it changing? Because you de facto legitimize an extra-system player who, with a referendum, changes the system. And here I address the coalition partners of GERB, because this is a decision of the Council of Ministers. "This extra-system player prepares for a future coalition partner after you are swallowed, eaten by the political party GERB. That's what we need to debate right now. We need to debate whether there is such a financing model in Europe at all. Last year we were not presidents of the Council of the European Union, but unfortunately we are preparing a Balkan funding model and we will legitimise it today, here in this Chamber with your votes. Dear friends, Europe is, firstly, a union of values that guarantee democracy and transparency. With what you will do now, you will delete democracy and delete transparency. That's what's scary! This is scary because parties de facto, as the Prime Minister says, will already be bought by oligarchs. And you don't care about the fact that you know that this is populism and that you want to force it and that one lev really should be voted on. It's not a question of who has how much money, it's a question of how much money works! After 30 years of transition, we go back again. Do you not notice, by the way, that since GERB has ruled, we, instead of moving forward, have been going back in the way institutions operate? It is a pity. It is a pity indeed, but in the end it is your goal to push through a decision, to break the model and build the future coalition partner, which shows how the system is changing. That's what the debate is today. It is a pity that it has come to this point, but clearly your desire, using the people's wishes, using that we did not explain what would happen in this referendum, to create a chaos in which to flourish the strongest, the most powerful and the richest, and not the one who is the reasonable, the knower. Unfortunately, that's the main objective. It is a pity that a party which is supposed to be democratic and respect European values, you come to a model that is not anywhere as a way of financing. If we ask people today if they want to pay taxes, of course they will say: "No. " Then what are we gonna do? We're canceling taxes tomorrow? Therefore, we, as statesmen, should be able to lead people along the path that should draw the country's development. You don't do that. You want now, immediately eating, disappearing other political entities, because all the public resources, all the state resources are in you, you don't need party subsidies, that's your style. The style is the mute behavior that must return!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u181	Mr. Stoynev!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u182	And that's the difference between you and me. That's right, and you have to admit it! That's what this change we're making right now will lead to. I'm graduating, Madam President. That's why we didn't want to have a debate because it's not the right time. This was supposed to happen from January 1st. The question is why is there a hurry, and why now, why should the opposition be hit before the local elections exactly? It is unfortunate, but ultimately we must get used to the creeping totalitarianism that is coming. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u183	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Atanasov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u184	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Stoinev! It's a good thing your group of colleagues are spanking you. You have made a strong statement, but I wonder why you are so shyly silent on the most serious argument. During the entire debate here today, there is a fundamental thesis. We must comply with the will of two and a half million Bulgarians. What about the will of the other four million, Mr. Stoinev, who did not support the referendum? Well, is there more populism than that? Yes, I respect their decision and respect their views, but four million did not support the referendum. Is that right? With their own self-support, they show that they didn't have that desire, they thought otherwise. And another thing, you're about to witness something very interesting. No, I still disagree with you here. No chaos will be created, Mr. Stoinev, in Bulgaria. It's going to create a war bug, my friend! == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man The officers know that. They know what I'm talking about. And I remember the words of a great man, Bertold Brecht, in 1933, when... [[Noise and lines.]] That's exactly what's gonna happen here. And when the German Reichstag practically legitimizes a single party in Germany, then he ends up with his historical words: "Democracy always goes away with applause. " Thank you. [[Applause, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u185	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Second line? I won't. Mr. Stoynev, come in for your coat. There won't be a duplicate from Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Yankov, last statement. I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs to take their seats, we will vote in a moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u186	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I appeal to you, colleagues from GERB today you impose a temporary solution, forcefully, surprisingly, immediately! It aims only to repeal the existing subsidy rules, but not to create any logical and fair forms to secure the financing of political parties. In no way can you justify either the new size or what it requires right now. The debate that did not take place could lay the basis for both the size, the criteria and the form of funding for political parties. Boyko Borisov referred to compliance with the referendum, but this is elementary demagogy, because the subsidy issue is only a third point in this referendum, and the first and second are much more significant, but on their implementation GERB will never be pronounced positive. It is clear to everyone that the amount of one lev per vote is insufficient, but thus demonstrate the desire to place the parties depending on your whims. You were totally irresponsible about giving out 13 levs instead of 11 levs. Out loud. The next quarter you need to put pressure on your opponents because of the upcoming local elections. GERB does not face the problem of financing campaigns, because your current mayors will take this care on their own. Equally absurd is the discussed option for financing parties by natural and legal persons. I will not talk about the direct and indirect dependences in which parties would fall under such funding, I will just point out that the more a party works in the public interest, the more a political force is more socially involved, the less its chances of being financially supported by corporations and large capital. This is not the solution our society needs. It needs parties that are subject only to their ideas and working for the prosperity of the whole society. Therefore, normal funding is needed in an amount sufficient to enable party structures and organs to function. For internal party activities and public-political activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u187	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Any lines to Mr. Iankov's statement? I can't see. Colleagues, I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote, first of all, the unsupported proposal of Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. We are voting under § 1. Vote 206 MPs: 24, against 131, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. Vote 206 MPs: 17 against 91, abstention 98. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1 supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u188	Vote 206 MPs: 119, against 71, abstention 16. The offer is accepted. We continue with the following texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u189	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following wording of the name:
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u190	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission of the name of the division. They voted 193 MPs: 120, against 59, abstention 14. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u191	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 2 be rejected as the matter is settled under art. 27, para. 2 of the Law on Political Parties, adopted on 14 June 2019 and published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 25 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u192	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 2 by importer. They voted 189 MPs: 120 against 32, abstention 37. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u193	Proposal of MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Delyan Peevski and Yordan Tsonev: In transitional and final provisions, §... shall be established with the following content: The amount of the state subsidy of political parties and coalitions for 2019 is translated on the basis of the actual votes received by the party or coalition, multiplied by the amount of 11 BGN. for one actual vote received for the period 1 January to 30 June 2019 and from 1 July 2019 the state subsidy is 0 BGN The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u194	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Delyan Peevski and Yordan Tsonev. Vote 192 MPs: 18, against 115, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u195	Proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 3: .................................................. The political parties shall transfer to the state budget the funds of the State subsidy under art. 25 of the Law on Political Parties. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u196	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u197	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our proposal for the return of unused funds is logical because of the fact that the impressive amount that GERB has on a deposit seems to be sufficient, despite the huge spending that makes the political party. Mr. Ivanov didn't answer a question a moment ago, and now I'm going to show you the facts. There they are. [[shows]] On GERB's website, according to which the money spent by the sovereign for the needs of GERB, namely for cars, amounted to nearly 1 million. 900,000. lv. In addition to this car, which was purchased on 28 November 2013 for 698 thousand. BGN, we have two vehicles purchased by the Porsche, we have a purchase of real estate, for which you, gentlemen of the majority, blamed BSP. And all of this is worth the total of 1 million. Eight hundred and eighty-eight Here is the place to say that the funds that the Bulgarian Socialist Party has spent in its campaign absolutely legally and transparently, of course, with the relevant expenditure documents, we have been checked repeatedly by the Court of Auditors, no violations have been detected so that you can talk about bankruptcy... Or, Madam President, I see you in this Chamber, you have taken the liberty of saying that our party has irrationally spent its funds...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u198	Me?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u199	Yeah, before you give it a rest. Right before you gave it a rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u200	It was me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u201	No. And you said it from above. Take out the transcript. You said it from the spot. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u202	Mr. Chenchev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u203	Yes, but it is not good when the President of the National Assembly gives qualifications on how a party spends its subsidy. That's how you spend it. That's how you spend it. Two Porsches, $700,000 car. Lev... [[(Comments from GERB: "For ……]] Your TVs and your Harizanians are clear from where they are funded, but I suppose this car is armored and thus your managers are protected from folk love.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u204	Make the connection, dear Mr. Chenchev. This is about something else. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please! You're wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u205	Dear Mr. Hristov, who temporarily presided over the National Assembly, please, when we export facts about how the subsidy was spent, do not make a comment to us, because these are facts. And if you allow yourself to spend the money of sovereign 2 million. lv. for cars, it didn't do it BSP, you did it. You! Here just now Mrs. Lecheva quite legitimately told you: the main question is why does GERB have so many millions on deposit? Why? And why do your representatives in their television appearances recognize that they have funding from other places? Why? And explain where their campaign funding came from. How is a campaign made without money in today's conditions of the real political environment? Explain yourself. We've explained it and we have no problem with that thing. So let the citizens know: 700,000. lv. for a car, two purchased cars from a Porsche, real estate, a bunch of others. [[GERB lines.]] It's all facts. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u206	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. - What's the line? Mr. Manev, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u207	It's good, it's good, it's good, it's not gonna end! It wasn't any explanation of how to keep those 11 levs. And all the nonsense we've said from this tribune, but getting to autojambasluck is now the ultimate, ultimate degree of stupidity in my opinion! In order not to offend anyone, first untruthfully Porsche. There are no cars like that. We all know, if you do not know, you can refer to the fact that "Folkswagen" is represented by the Porsche group, but that does not matter in this case. You know what's more important, mate? More importantly, from this tribune you say all sorts of things to justify the following fact: bought, bought, had cars, had no cars, made meaningless TV stations, so that your five, six people who don't exist anywhere could be made public. In the end there is the following: BSP cannot recover the subsidy to the state, GERB returned it. GERB submits a proposal for one lev, you defend 11 levs. Those are the facts! Everything else is alabalisms. We don't have real estate, we don't have TV, we don't have commercial companies. But... details!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u208	Thank you. Second line, please, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u209	Honourable Members, we can continue to throw at each other various parts of the accounts that parties make public and which are available to the whole society, which have been deposited with the Court of Auditors and on which the Court of Auditors has verified their lawful spending. I would like to say firmly that the GERB party does not have a single remark that it spends its money illegally. However, in addition to the lawful use of money, there is a reasonable use of money in a business manner, by the owner of that money, thinking not only of today, but also of the future, according to its concept. [[(Radio.) Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria.)]] And because GERB has spent his money wisely, and because GERB has respected the Law on Political Parties, which obliges him to keep his money in banks, unlike some others who have millions in cash and perhaps it is not bad for the Court to check them out, so now BSP is looking into our money and, of course, an old communist custom, likes to expropriate the money of others. [[Private applause from GERB.]] However, I would characterize the debate that colleagues on the left lead to the moment under both § 1 and the paragraph proposed by them, with some famous words of Danny de Vito's character from the famous movie "Moneys of others": "There is one thing I like more than money and that is the money of others." [[Applause from GERB, livening.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u210	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Third line, Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, honourable colleague Chenchev! I apologize for earlier saying that you do not have a proposal on this bill. You've had a hard time giving birth as a political party and a parliamentary group. September 9, 1944, comrades, is not now that you want nationalisation of money in banks! That's what you did in 1996. You took the money from the people in the banks. In two and what year, during Oresharski, another big bank went bankrupt. That's what you did! Third time's not gonna happen. And because you have affected, colleague Chenchev, our report is really public, it has been disclosed. It has repeatedly speculated with the deposits of GERB and with the interest from them. Yeah, in the report, you went to all the trouble to read it, apparently that 3,000. lv. interest took your eyes out. Three thousand leva, colleagues, probably your sports journalist from BSP TV has a higher salary. If you've looked at them, look at your expenses. Good management of funds, so to speak, disclosure of these funds and their reasonable investments should not be punished. Mind your own business. I don't know what your report is, but from your forum, which you have recently held, you have no money in the register. Do not take it out on the other political forces who have managed them wisely and have them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u212	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u213	Dear Mr. Chairman! I'll answer the three lines like this. Firstly, BSP has no comment from the Court of Auditors at all, as you say, and we do not have one either. Second, yes, we don't have money in the register because we don't keep our money in the register. Our money is spent on party activities. And that's what the Court of Auditors saw repeatedly. The Court of Auditors! Of course, I can't help but enjoy the fact that you are interested and watch Bulgarian Free TV. Watch it, because there's something you can learn even in sports shows. Even in sports shows! That's a good thing! If you're all looking at an impartial reflection of real political life, I think the debate would be different. I remember what you said here, from this tribune, about two weeks ago Professor Rumen Gechev. [[Voices from GERB: "Eee. "]] And he said that the proposal, which is of your attention today, actually exists in the legal peace of many of the countries in the European Union. He told you that at the time. And if you want us to develop European, you must all support it, and without any doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u214	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. Any other speeches? Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u215	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman! Half an hour ago, when you voted to make the subsidy from 11 levs to 1 lev, you thought you did a good job and you thought you did the job perfectly for today and people would enjoy it. Now that they know how you're clinging to those savings in the bank, it's like you haven't done anything, dear colleagues. You saved some money from the money of the Bulgarian citizens, from the money of the Bulgarian pensioners, while at the same time...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u216	Saved your money, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u217	...because you're asking me the question from the point of view: How did you save it? "Well, you didn't use it because you spent other money, Mrs. Daritkova. You spent money on your sponsors, you spent money on those you gave them public procurement. That's the money you've been spending, not anyone else! And that's why you have savings. It has already become clear to everyone in this House and to the Bulgarian citizens who is your biggest problem because of which you reduced the subsidy. Your first problem is that there is opposition and that this is BSP, but the bigger problem is that there is Bulgarian Free TV. [[Radio.]] And you think that if you get rid of the grant, you're gonna get rid of the TV. That's not gonna happen! If you wanted to do this thing, there are a bunch of other laws where you could do it, but you don't have the courage and now you want to stop the opposition through financial mechanisms, stop the television, and you probably want to stop the newspaper. And here to have obedient MPs to do what you've decided to vote on. It's not gonna work! You have the opportunity now, in this vote, if you are honourable MPs, if you are an honorable parliamentary group, to return the money to the Bulgarian citizens where you took it, because you are not obliged to buy the expensive cars from Porsche, Mr. Manev! Not a Porsche, but a Porsche. So they are not obliged with their subsidies to buy you armored cars so that someone who is afraid can ride in an armored car. And why is he afraid, give yourself an answer to that question. [[National Representative Manoil Manev wants the floor for a personal explanation.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u218	The lines first. The line is written by Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u219	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Svilensky, because you were talking about paying back money. The fact that someone was buying cars to go around their polling areas, you're missing it. That's what you're talking about. Will you return the spa money where you went? [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] From the spa you went to?! On Sapareva Banya, before Katarino, on the other spa treatments where you go? When you return that money, then talk about why someone saved some money and spent it wisely.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u220	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Second line? I can't see. [[National Representative Manoil Manev wants the floor.]] Wait, Mr. Manev. Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very low, Mr. Lazarov! [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]] Mr. Lazarov! [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] No, listen to me very well! Listen to me very well! He didn't go to Katarino Georgi Svilenski! In Pavel Banya Georgi Svilenski did not go! Why are you talking nonsense from this tribune and should all Bulgarians listen to you? Now, come on out and apologize for this tribune! Because neither in the Catarina spas did he go, nor in Paul Banya he went, and not with the money from the subsidies! [[GERB lines.]] And the party didn't go there. And the party didn't go there! Tell me, where do you go on Golden Sands, and where does your youthful unification go? Let's talk if you want more. To become even more interesting to Bulgarian citizens. And since I see that Mr. Manev is about to make a personal explanation to me, I have not offended you, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u222	You don't judge that!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u223	Well, I'll go to the chairman. I didn't insult you. All I said was which company owns the car. Mr. Manev, I didn't... Unless you're ashamed of your name, then take a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u224	He thought he was incompetent. [[National Representative Stanislav Ivanov wants the floor for procedure.]] First Mr. Manev's personal explanation, then I'll give you your word, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u225	Dear colleague! I came here with the intention of really making a sharp remark about how you use my name, in what context. It's just... I'm already ashamed of you guys, you've hit rock bottom! There's nothing to offend me with since even my name is getting in your way. I'll tell you one thing: with this low start and low campaign that you are trying to do, you will not save the image of BSP, neither yours nor anyone in this room does the honor of speaking this way. What armored cars, what Porsche? Knowing you're talking nonsense, you're talking from this tribune. That's the terrible thing, and that's the insulting thing for all of us.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u226	Personally, Mr. Manev. Thank you. Mr. Ivanov, come in. [[National Representative Georgi Gokov wants the floor for procedure.]] There is a procedure before you, dear Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u227	Mr President, honourable Members, I am doing again a procedure to end the debates with the following argument: The colleague who just spoke here was saying things that he was explaining in the previous paragraphs about cars and so on. It seems that the colleagues on the left have no other arguments, and for this reason I propose that we put an end to the debate after those who have signed up with the President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u228	Inverse opinion Mr. Popov. [[People's representations Georgi Gokov wants the floor.]] Inverse opinion before I put the procedural proposal to the vote. Then I'll give you your word, of course, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, there were numerous requests made by the House for speeches. If you turn around, you'll see them. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] If you turn around, you'll see them! You can also stand in the back of the room. Watch before you make an offer. Secondly, Mr President, once again, this is an extremely important debate. You canceled the first one. This is about a substantial other debate, of course, having a connection to one left. This is about, Mr. President, for free financing of political parties from Bulgaria and abroad, by natural and legal persons, for opening the market. This is an important debate! Don't call off the debate on it, too! We know that you want to end it, and I know that you have no arguments, and we know that your Prime Minister has definitely stated that this is the case. And now you're wondering here what to say and why you're going to vote this way, but at least don't end the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u230	Thank you. I will put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Stanislav Ivanov and we will continue, dear Mr. Gokov. Vote 168 MPs: 98, against 65, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u231	Dear Mr. Chairman! I am making a strong objection in the way in which you have been leading the sitting in the last five minutes, you have made at least five violations of the Rules of Procedure. The first offense you've committed, I raise my hand, and you've given the floor to five people before me on procedural proposals. My second objection to you is that you did not give me the floor before, although I had absolutely reason to make a personal explanation, and you gave the floor to your partner and fellow citizens Manev to explain something with which he was not affected at all in the speech. In essence, he did not make a personal explanation, but continued the speeches. You have allowed the GERB party to propose an end to the debates, and Mr. Manev is wasting time in a personal explanation by speaking on the substance. Once again, you show that you are not conducting an impartial meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u232	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. I'll give you an answer. You said five violations, and you listed two that you think look like this. As far as procedural proposals are concerned, I am obliged to walk the way of a first procedural proposal and then give the floor to a next procedural proposal. And as for giving the word to Mr. Manev, I have judged it right or wrong, but it is your opinion that he felt affected by being accused of incompetence until you were accused of incompetence or in any other way. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I answered the question. Please, let's continue with the report, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u233	We must also vote on the proposal, which is not supported by the Commission. [[Noise and lines.]] We have not voted on Mrs Cornelia Ninova's proposal and a group that is not supported by the Commission and has not been voted in this House.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u234	Yeah, it wasn't voted in. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 170 MPs: for 67, against 95, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. Please continue with the following proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u235	Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal which is reflected in § 2. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal which is reflected in § 2. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal which is reflected in § 2. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal which is reflected in § 2. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal which is reflected in § 2. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal which is reflected in § 2. Proposal of the MPs Valeri Simeonov and Christian Mitev. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1, 3 and 4, which is reflected in § 2, and does not support it under paragraph 2. 2: "2." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23 para. 2 is amended as follows: The donations from natural and legal persons for one calendar year may not exceed BGN 8 000 000 Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: A new § 2 shall be established in the framework of the following provisions: ..................................................... In the Law on Political Parties (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 27: ♪ A. ♪ A new para shall be created. 2: The parties and coalitions, which have parliamentary groups, shall receive in addition to the subsidy under para. 1 additional subsidy in support of its parliamentary activity, the amount of which is defined in the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. B. The so-called al. 2 becomes para. 3. 3. Paragraphs 2 and 3 shall become Paragraph 3 and 4 respectively. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In the Law on Political Parties (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21 after the word "Parties" is added. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 is created a new t. 4. "4." donations from legal entities and sole traders; (b) paragraph 2 is repealed. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 t. 2 is repealed; (b) in para. 2 words. 2, 3 and 4 In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the (c) paragraph 3 is repealed. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 2, p. 1 and 2 after the words. The following shall be added: (b) point 7 is repealed. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 the words "rental' shall be replaced by "refundable'; (b) in para. 2 the words received over one hundred of the votes actually cast in the last parliamentary elections shall be replaced by those which in the last elections for MPs have received not less than one hundred of the actual votes in the country and abroad, except for the votes under art. 279, para. 1, t. 6 of the Election Code. 6. Article 32 is amended as follows: Art. 32. (1) Political parties to which premises under art. 31, pay operating costs, if any. (2) The premises provided to political parties shall not be leased and transferred for use. Such premises may be jointly used under a contract with third parties only for purposes directly related to the party's activities. Economic activity may not be carried out in these premises. (3) The relations with political parties shall be terminated due to non-payment of the operating costs for more than three months or in violation of the prohibition under para. 2. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34, para. 4th sentence second after the word "Ice" is added to the legal persons and sole traders. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40, para. 1, t. 3 after the word "Vice President" is added for Members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Bulgaria. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43a, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 23,
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u236	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Statements? Here you are, dear Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u237	The arguments against the text to allow external financing or financing by companies I expressed in my speech at the beginning of the debate. Now, I would like to ask five questions to five MPs - Mustafa Karadayi, Delyan Peevski, Yordan Tsonev, Valeri Simeonov and Christian Mitev - and perhaps also to Mrs. Menda Stoyanova - who supports these texts - so far were the importers. My questions to the five colleagues are: First, will companies that have obligations to the budget of Bulgaria have the right to sponsor parties that currently manage Bulgaria? My questions are principled, not just GERB. Secondly, would companies that receive public procurements have the right to sponsor parties that participate in the country's governance and distribute public procurement? Thirdly, will companies registered in offshore zones be able to finance parties in Bulgaria? Fourth, will religious legal entities be able to finance Bulgarian and foreign parties? My fifth question is: will non-governmental organizations be able to finance Bulgarian parties as non-profit legal entities? I do not see any of the importers of these texts except Mr. Valeri Simeonov, but I do not believe that he will be hired to answer on behalf of the importers Karadayi, Peevski and Tsonev, even less than Mrs. Stoyanova, but I still want someone to answer these questions, because the answer will make it clear what these proposals under the Law are about. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u238	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Are there lines? I can't see. Mr. Kutev, come in. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Procedure? Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u239	Mr. Chairman, please invite the importers to this text. What are we doing right now, guys? There is no representative of the Ministry of Finance, no Council of Ministers, no prime minister who submitted these proposals, no MPs. What are we discussing right now? Please answer my questions. One of all six come find them, invite them and answer me. Mrs. Stoyanova, if you haven't heard me, I can repeat the questions. The texts in the Law, which are offered and you support, do they suggest that there will be funding from offshore companies...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u240	No, no, Mrs. Ninova. Please, Mrs. Ninova, don't do this. You have a procedural question, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u241	... NGOs, Bulgarian and foreign legal entities with religious activities; companies with obligations to the treasury; companies that receive public procurement from the government?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u242	Please, Mrs. Ninova, don't make this a violation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u243	Someone please answer me: does the law allow this?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u244	I understand that, but I don't have the right to impose on the MPs anything. You have asked, they will answer when they judge and if they judge. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Was it a procedure, Mr. Simeonov? [[Reply by National Representative Valeri Simeonov.]] Speech, okay. Procedure, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u245	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman! Obviously, this text of this law has been submitted without any motives. We also did not hear the answer to the questions asked. I therefore propose that the text that we should vote on now be postponed until we have the answers to the questions. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] These are extremely important issues concerning the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. Who's here from the Council of Ministers, importers? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u246	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. I don't see a reverse opinion. A procedural proposal will be put to the vote. Voting regime for the procedural proposal to postpone the vote and the examination of the point. Vote 155 MPs: 66 against 76 abstentions 13. The offer is not accepted. There are statements still being made on the subject. Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u247	Colleagues, we were just joking that we would nicely invite them to come, but I have a question, if Delyan Peevski comes to the gym, what function will he come in? Will he be an importer? [[(Descriptions from ……]] Come on, what? The guy's the importer. Now how can I not mention it when he's an importer!? [[DPS lines: It's on commission, we told you!]] I see here it says Delyan Peevsky is an importer. If you don't mind, come out and say it's not if you're giving up the text. My question is: will he come as an importer, as a sponsor respectively, as a donor or as a user of the funds? Because he's showing up all three things together at this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u248	Please, Mr. Kutev!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u249	If we rule out this maliciousness, even though it is extremely important, I would like to draw your attention to the thesis of the American business and how we must free the funding from corporations. Dear colleagues, the difference between the American business and the Bulgarian business, unfortunately, is very big. There is a very big difference in the way money is cultivated, in the way they are spent and in the way the business system works in Bulgaria at all. Unfortunately, those who could make the big donations, as undoubtedly, when it comes to sums of 6.. 7.8 million a year, are actually those who could be donors, companies who can do it. It's not a small and medium-sized business, it's a big business. In our country, big business has some peculiarities. One of them is that here, Zuckerberg and Bill Gates are gone. I mean, those who have created huge things for humanity, for technology, for the lives of each and every one of us, and with these things have managed to create new universes for all of us, and billions, respectively, these people can be donors. They can be donors in other ways. In Bulgaria this is not the case. In Bulgaria, the big business, to my great regret, is mostly cultivated the funds and opportunities it has, through the country. We are, unfortunately, one of those countries in which the redeployment function of the state does not serve to take from the rich and give to the poor, but quite the opposite "to collect taxes from the poor and from everyone, and to give them to the rich!" It's been a daily function of the state for decades! With this structure of the economy, if we allow these donations to feed the political system, this means that we automatically release merchants into the temple! This means that all those who benefit from public procurement, which brings out the state, who collect the money of the small Bulgarians who expand the scissors, because we all know that for every month and year the scissors between the poor and the rich in the country are getting bigger, it is getting bigger precisely because the Bulgarian state does not redistribute for the benefit of the poor and for the benefit of the rich, these people become donors to the parties! These people become those who, having already mastered the business, have mastered the media, because they are mostly their property, and now the parties are in control. What we do with these texts is we condemn the state to very long without enlightenment. I'm sorry about that. As I look at the room, I see distracted glances, because unfortunately for me, frankly, in this room, even millionaires aren't that many. Dear colleagues, much of you will be the victim of the same things you are doing right now! Because the scissors are for you, too. You're in the gym today, you're not in tomorrow, your family won't be here. At the moment, with the texts we are adopting, we are perpetuating the power of the large bourgeoisie, and some of it is of absolutely criminal origin to money. This money from now on gets direct power over the political system. Tomorrow something will happen, many things can happen, things will turn around. As you think 30 million is enough to live in the next two or three years until you tire out the opposition, so tomorrow it will turn out to be the opposite. Except the ones with the big wallets, they'll always be there. You and I may not be here, the ones with the wallets will be. What we're doing right now is that we're opening the door for big capital, and I'm saying, a lot of it is of the criminal origin of the funds. Bigger stupidity and bigger trouble for Bulgaria we cannot do. I hope you understand something. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u250	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Are there any lines? I can't see. We'll continue with our speech. Procedure. Here you are, dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u251	Mr. Chairman, I propose a procedure to end the debate. [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But I'm asking you to read the people who signed up and listen to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u252	Sounds reasonable to me, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Ivanov suggested that everyone signed up to speak, and then we'll move on. I will put to the vote Mr. Ivanov's procedural proposal. Mr. Kostadinov and Mr. Valeri Simeonov are recorded. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u253	How many times I raised my hand!?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u254	Mr. Popov, you're next, yes, I've marked you. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No, I really didn't record him.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u255	You don't see who's raising your hand?!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u256	Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs to enter the Chamber. [[Heckling]] After the vote, I will give you the floor of procedure. Inverse opinion you should have said so. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Stanislav Ivanov. Vote 142 MPs: 81 against 56, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Procedure, dear Mr. Popov, you asked for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u257	In this situation, it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u258	We continue with speeches. You have the word in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The procedure is the way it's run. I call on you to call on the government to answer the questions Mrs. Nino has asked. There is no way to continue the debate without having an answer to these questions, let alone voting on the text! Do whatever you can to answer the questions! Otherwise, the debate is meaningless simply and the vote even more! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u260	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. You understand yourself, and you know very well the Rules of Procedure that the President is unable to oblige a Member of the National Assembly to take matters into consideration in this House. That concludes the answer. Mr. Popov, please come in, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u261	Honourable Members of the House, Mr. Chairman! It after the vote of § 1 here seems to be meaningless, but this proposal, honourable MPs, Bulgarian citizens, concreteizes the proposal under § 1 for a lev subsidy. Why would I say that? Because § 1 concerns the Budget Act, which has power and duration until the end of this year. With the proposal to amend the Law on Political Parties, this becomes a temporary norm by the end of the year in a permanent legislation. The fan opens, the possibility of subsidizing political parties outside. Naturally, there is no way in this situation to become two levs, zero levs, 10 levs. It doesn't matter from here on out. Since the debate so far, it has become clear and several other things. You spit it out. Obviously, Bulgarian Free TV annoys you very much. This is why we are in the nth place on freedom of speech in Bulgaria. We understand you like other people's money the most. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You're proving it. You want all the money from Bulgaria and abroad, regardless of their origin, whether they are from drugs, from selling weapons, from prostitution, or from terrorism.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u262	Please, Mr. Popov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u263	It's important to have funding. Don't beg me, that's what the offer says. That's the offer. It's important to have funding! But money doesn't smell, does it? It doesn't matter to you at all. All of your theories so far that, you see, the sovereign, two and a half million Bulgarians, said so-what are you, just getting cold, they become meaningless. They are meaningless because with this proposal you put at stake at this moment, put on the map, on a losing map, sovereignty and national security of Bulgaria, I strongly state it from this tribune. You lost it when you refused to return the grant because you took it from that same sovereign. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u264	You didn't bring them back, could you?!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u265	When it comes to bringing back the ones you have in the banks, as your partners say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u266	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. There are no lines, as far as I can see, in the hall. We'll continue with Mr. Simeonov. You have the floor, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u267	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ninova, who is not in the room, you must be looking somewhere from the monitors outside the room, and you may not be looking. I took that statement because I was challenged. Of course I can't accept the way you want to get an explanation or an answer to our proposal. Once again with manipulation you put us in a joint proposal with the proposal of Mustafa Karadayi, Delyan Peevski, Yordan Tsonev. No, we have another proposal, which is separate, different, at another time submitted. So you have no reason to unite these proposals and seek an answer to a common proposal. I can talk about our proposal in the form of a statement. Our proposal is made precisely with the idea and it has the possibility of supporting political parties as another measure, as an alternative to the inability of a political force, especially a smaller one, to support itself with one lev subsidy. That's why we did it. On the other hand, however, in the same proposal, we are placing a ceiling on donations, showing that in no case is it an unlimited sponsorship or an opportunity to fully control the activities of a party by a large economic entity. The very third question is that, in my opinion, this thing in Bulgaria is not. In Bulgaria, large economic entities are controlled, blackmailed and manipulated by the big parties, especially by the ruling parties. But this is another topic, this is not the subject of the conversation and the Law. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's another topic. That you don't understand that you don't see these processes, well, maybe because you're a politician, and I come from business. I can give you hundreds of examples of blackmail from the ruling parties and companies, not to paint it in front of the not-so-informed society that almost the Bulgarian political life is facing the threat of some dark economic powerful forces that will grab the parties and make them puppets in their hands. It's more the other way around. I know what you're gonna pull out, but this guy you're gonna pull out as a counterargument, and he's a political figure here, a colleague of yours. Regarding your suggestions. First of all, it would be good to get acquainted with the current Law, because then you wouldn't have asked these few questions, and at least you would have reduced them. For example, the current article. 24 prohibits sponsoring by religious formations and subjects. It's forbidden. Read the law. Article 24 also prohibits donations, sponsoring by foreign companies, foreign NGOs, but the text is the same as governments and so on. With regard to your other proposals, we find with my fellow importers that they are extremely reasonable and justified. In this regard, I am making the following proposal for editing the text, and it is possible to edit these proposals because they are currently made, literally on the knee: Paragraph 2 of Paragraph 1 is not to be repealed but to be amended as follows: by legal persons and sole traders with public obligations. I think that's a solution. It's not the best, because there's no way, at least we can't come up with something that's for public procurement companies or that they're going to run. I suggest we unite around this text. If there is a need for any additional editing, we are also prepared to ask for a short break accordingly in order to better shape the text. I trust my colleagues won't mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u268	Any lines to Mr. Simeonov's statement? Line, Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u269	Mr. Simeonov, I congratulate you for taking this step or step to change the texts, but I would like to legally sort things out a little less politically. With the texts that are now being proposed and in which it writes "legal persons" are circumventing the bans that exist at the moment because they are for religious institutions, for foreign state enterprises, and a legal entity can also be non-profit NGOs. That is, the current text that we are looking at, except that it is not precise, perhaps its hidden goal is to circumvent the bans and in different legal forms has been done. One is a legal entity, another is a religious institution, third is a foreign state enterprise. That's why I'm offering to do it right, let's not do half-assed things. I suggest that we reschedule this text, refine the proposals that you are making, both you and we, and do so so so that we limit the possibility of foreign influences, of paying by companies that are dependent on the government, and of paying from abroad, which may be a threat to national security.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u270	Second line? I can't see. Mr. Simeonov, will you have the back? No. Second line, please, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u271	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Simeonov, I think you should still quote the current text of art. 24. The colleagues from BSP and Mrs. Nino obviously didn't read it well enough, so I'm going to go to the trouble of reading it to everyone. In the current Law on political parties in art. 24, para. 1, t. 3 says the following: Political parties cannot receive funds from religious institutions. These are faiths, and I don't read the whole text, but I read exactly those points that bother you: they do. 4. Funds from foreign governments or from foreign state enterprises, foreign commercial companies or foreign non-profit organisations, which are so-called non-governmental organisations, that is, we are currently banned. If you look at the Commission's proposal, you will see that these texts remain. The only thing that goes away is the ban on legal persons and sole traders from carrying out funding. But the other obligations of not financing political parties from religious institutions, from foreign governments, from foreign state enterprises, from foreign commercial companies and foreign non-profit organizations remain, so please do not mislead Bulgarian citizens! Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u272	Third line, Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u273	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Simeonov, I draw attention to the fact that the Law on Political Parties prohibits the financing of legal entities, not only to prohibit funding from private capital, but also to transparent funding, as the legal person can be used to cover up the real donors. The prohibitions on religious and other institutions included in this law are also secured by the prohibition of financing a legal person and by no accident donations are allowed, but only by individuals, so that it can always be clear who is financing the party concerned. This ban by dropping out, to a large extent, other bans remain subject to this point of view. And one more thing, thank you for your honesty. You said something that remained on the sidelines of this debate that the donations that we allow are very often actually donations not by will, but by coercion, that is, racketeering. To our criticism that we release funding and legalize the entry of private capital, you add another... in this way we legalize political racketeering. It exists now, but we make it completely official!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u274	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Simeonov, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u275	Madam President, honourable Members! Once again, unfortunately, we don't get along, we don't listen to each other maybe. We remain to the opinion that I, and my colleagues, in art. 24 These restrictions exist now, so we do not need to expand them. Mr. Zarkov, of course you are making some very arbitrary interpretation of my speech. What I meant, that's what I said. The last thing you're talking about, maybe you're using this scheme, but we're still making a proposal that you're not doing, and you could have done it. We've prepared some text. Are we going to interrupt now, or is that not necessary?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u276	That won't be necessary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u277	That won't be necessary. In that case, we will submit the text and I will ask all colleagues if there is any further technical adjustment of any... [[Noise and lines.]] Or should we postpone the vote? I propose that we postpone the vote until the text is refined, but that we adopt, in principle, this proposal that has been made.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u278	I'm not going to vote on this proposal. We're putting it off.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u279	We're putting it off, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u280	Okay, I'm putting to the vote Mr. Simeonov's procedural proposal to postpone... Here's the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u281	Madam President, I propose that Mr. Simeonov formulate the text that is ready for them, the House should vote on the text in principle, then postpone the vote on the entire § 1 until the end of the Law, in order to enable the lawyers to do, if necessary, to refine this text. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u282	Come in for a procedure, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u283	Madam President, there is a procedural proposal made by Mr. Valeri Simeonov to postpone the vote on the text. The proposal of colleague Menda Stoyanova is essentially not a reverse proposal. We're at second reading, and how are we going to accept something at second reading in general and then come back? Do you understand the situation you're putting Parliament in? There is a motion to postpone the vote and to adopt the text, let us see and do things. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u284	I will submit the proposal, Mr. Simeonov, to postpone this point until the text is cleared and then we will proceed with the following paragraphs. We vote on Mr. Simeonov's proposal to postpone this point until...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u285	There are more statements under § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u286	I won't. There's another one for Mr. Kostadinov. [[Definitions between President Tsveta Karayancheva and rapporteur Menda Stoyanova.]] Cancel the vote, fellow Members. Since there is a statement by Mr. Kostadinov, let the Members of the European Union continue to work on the text and, if they are ready afterwards, we will vote, if not, we will vote on a delay. Procedure Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u287	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedure for extending the working hours of today's meeting until the end of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u288	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. We vote on this procedure and I will give a statement to Mr. Kostadinov. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We've cancelled the vote. I explained why, Mr. Svilensky. Listen to me! We are voting for an extension of working time until the adoption of this bill. Vote 171 MPs: 97, against 64, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u289	Madam President, first of all, the nature of our work and the regulations is being violated. Let me just repeat that there was a motion to postpone the point. The debate would have continued when we returned to this point and continued with the speeches, and the speaker would have done so when we continued with the speeches. It wouldn't have come to a vote. The debate was not terminated at this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u290	We didn't vote. I called off the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u291	It has been postponed, you have called off the vote. Why did you cancel? You shouldn't have called it off. That is why I am also making the same procedural proposal that Mr. Simeonov made: not to proceed to the vote, to postpone the point, to go further on the bill. We cannot now be on the knee, in five minutes, for one statement, make proposals in the second reading of the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u292	If the colleagues are not ready after Mr. Kostadinov's speech, I will vote on the postponement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u293	No, I have a proposition, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u294	What is your proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u295	My proposal is to postpone the vote. And procedural proposals should be put to the vote immediately, not after a speech. It's in the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u296	Okay, I'll put it to a vote. We're shutting down the debate on this point. After we vote on the postponement, we continue with the next paragraph and then we will return to your speech, Mr. Kostadinov. We vote on the procedure that Mr. Simeonov and Mr. Popov did. Vote 166 MPs: 151 against 14, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Stoyanova, we're moving on.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u297	Madam President, I'm making a procedural proposal for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u298	Sustained, Mrs. Stoyanova. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u299	Colleagues, we're moving on. Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u300	Madam President, honourable Members! I will comment on the proposals in art. 21 from several points of view. First of all, as regards the motives of the submitted bill. I remembered that one of the reasons is that budget spending is being saved. When money is saved on the budget, obviously someone else has to take it, change it. However, who, when and how did he decide what the cost of the political system and democracy is? To claim that we are saving from something that we probably or do not need from the state, who, when and how did you estimate how much political democracy costs? That's the main question. Of course, the fund savers in the previous new § 3 refused to return the unspent target money on an annual basis to the same budget. Which one's true, guys? We've been spending money on budget savings, or we don't want to get back the money that we don't know why, 27 million is standing on account? It's okay that small interest rates are piling up, it's legal, but obviously there's a lot more to it than it needs to be. At the same time, we're doing a wealthy campaign. Many examples can be brought up in this case, including the proposal for kindergartens in another paragraph, because, excuse me, the future of children and the good of children cannot go through the slavery of mothers and fathers. When I say slavery, don't be offended. Slavery is not free. Failure to express your vote, your desire, your political convictions through a political party. Why? Because no one can convince me that the already voted position from zero or from one lev, as you have pleaded, is enough to be on top of the wave as a cost on an annual basis and against zero or one lev to hear what the voter tells you. The second point of view on which I would like to comment............................................................................................ 21, again accentuated the budget saving. Dear colleagues, who actually gives us the right...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u301	There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u302	Saving is part of the motive, Mrs. Stoyanova. That's the point I'm commenting on.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u303	This is art. 21 of the Law on Political Parties.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u304	From the proposal on page 3, where the Commission supports in principle the proposal of Mustafa Karadayi, Delyan Peevski and Yordan Tsonev. That's what I'm talking about. In fact, who gives us the right to put what we are saving from the budget as spending political parties? Such a change, colleagues, means the following: you have one cost of 30 million. lv. Every year, please be very careful and keep in mind that this cost should be for business. We don't have a shred of doubt that the models, because I'm going to look at the quoted American model as an example, the models that are going to be applied to the business of caring for the political parties, will be two in two different types of full tax check, checking a natural person for those who do not finance the government, or those who do not give themselves God improperly finance any opposition or extraparliamentary party. I am extending this topic to what, honourable Members, if the biggest donors of the parties or the government are those who earn the most public procurement, including with European funds? Although they are no longer necessary. By Decree of the Council of Ministers No 240 about 4 billion. lv. are distributed for two years in violation of the Budget Act and without sanction of the National Assembly. What situation do we find ourselves in if it is those who need licences, certificates, permits, complex permits, allowances that are also the biggest donors? Then I fear that what the Greco Commission spoke in 2012 in its Fifty-Seventh monitoring report with the explicit recommendation that Bulgaria should pay attention and not allow funding from legal entities will start again this monitoring approach. I'm finishing what I wanted to comment on. I found the author. There's no American model. We can't compare the chalga to jazz on July 4th. The chalga has nothing to do with New Orleans style. This is the comparison between the American model and what we do. [[Radio.]] Mrs. Stoyanova is not Danny DeVito's hero. The author of this model, which I can assign to the Wild West, is a real figure. He was born in 1899 in New York, usually Italian roots, Neapolitan. His name is Alphonse Gabriel Capone, more known as Big Al or Al Capone.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u305	The weather, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u306	This model you know how it ended.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u307	You'll be sharing movies with Mrs. Stoyanova after the meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u308	Do not doubt that this model will end this way. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u309	- What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Simeonov, you're welcome to do your editorial repairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u310	Madam President, honourable Members! It's very difficult to go after Gershwin. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u311	You can sing something, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u312	Summertime... [[Radio, applause, shouts by BSP for Bulgaria "More, more!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u313	Continue, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u314	In another setting, yes. I suggest to your attention the following texts: ............................................................................... Point 3 (s) is amended as .) in para. 1, t. 2 shall be added at the end: And second point: the letter "b" is dropped. Accordingly, changes must be made to § 3 which follows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u315	Yeah, then we'll make those changes. Colleagues, we're going to vote. [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Wait!"]] What am I waiting for? That's not a statement. It's a procedure. There's the editorial amendment that Mr. Simeonov wanted to make when he made his speech, so we're going to vote. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You want to say something about this text? All right, here you go, Mr. Popov. I will give a statement on the text because everyone had the right to come in and talk when we were doing the texts. All the parliamentary groups were invited. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u316	Madam President, I'm taking procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u317	The way you're holding it well.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u318	We want to do, of course, speeches, lines... [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u319	We voted already, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u320	Madam President, a proposal has just been made for a new text in the proposed bill. He hasn't been discussed, he hasn't been debated. We have stopped the debate until Valeri Simeonov's proposal, until the new text and now we should continue it. This is a whole new text with different arguments and different speeches so far. Therefore, please give the Members in this House the opportunity to speak on this proposal. It is additional and there is a radical difference from what is now existing, or gaps. So it's the right thing to do. We're not gonna bite you after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u321	No, you won't bite us. There was plenty of time to talk. We voted on a procedure for closing the debate. You had the opportunity to come to my office all the parliamentary groups and discuss what was going on. We're done with the debate. Let's move on to the vote. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u322	You said you'd make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u323	I said yes. I said I'd allow a statement. I did. I'm not going back on what I said. Here you go. I'll allow a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u324	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! The proposal represents this: the point that changes in the material, I don't know if it's in front of your eyes, is canceled. So the editorial proposal is to include a whole new paragraph. The colleague Mr. Simeonov read it. I think it's quite reasonable to discuss it. What's more, what you read is in...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u325	You have a chance to get to the point. Don't call the coworkers.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u326	I'll get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u327	Get to the point. I've given you the floor of speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u328	Please don't interrupt me. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u329	Here you go. I'll give you 30 seconds on top.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u330	...is within what we've been trying to tell you all morning, namely the financing of legal entities. What is now described as a ban is only that they cannot finance legal persons who have overdue debts, notice the overdue, which is different from what is in the first material. And the second is jurisdictions with preferential tax regime, i.e. registered offshore companies. What we have paid attention to you this morning is not to be able to finance legal entities that carry out public contracts that are concession contracts that operate mainly under licensing. These are commercial companies. What about non-governmental organizations, which are the conductor of many anti-Bulgarian interests, why do they not appear in this text, colleagues?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u331	Why didn't you suggest it?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u332	Why? It's not my editorial amendment. Non-governmental organizations. [[GERB lines.]] In addition, honourable Members, written text for a few minutes. A much more common commercial activity in Bulgaria is not from persons registered in offshore areas. In Bulgaria a commercial company is registered with 2 BGN. capital, but its owner may be in an offshore area. Elementary! I therefore believe that this text cannot be adopted this way. Commercial companies are not commented, as I told you, implementing public contracts, concessions, licensing regime, non-governmental organizations, leading harmful policy towards Bulgaria, individuals, relatives, close to the authorities, registered companies. No restrictions are being set at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u333	Do we have to sign them out?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u334	In my opinion, this text should not be adopted. It de facto does not put any barrier and this will open the way for vicious funding of the parties. That's what we've been talking about all morning. It's not self-defense. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u335	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. - What's the line? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u336	Dear colleague Milkov, you rightly said and outlined the options, but this proposed text opens up another great opportunity. In it it is written: Legal persons registered in offshore zones. However, this does not mean that a legal person registered in the Commercial Register in Bulgaria, co-owner of another legal person registered in an offshore area, will not have the right to finance political parties.................................................................................... will be able to finance them.............................................................................................................................................. And who is the owner of this offshore company, whether it is a terrorist organization, whether it is some religious institution, that only God knows. This opens a huge gate to the dark funding of political parties. Of course, confessing such non-politics is not in the public interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u337	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u338	Mr. Milkov, your speech on this topic sums up the speech your colleagues made at 9.00 p.m. For six hours now, not a single proposal, just spitting on any other proposal in order not to accept any responsibility. Did you take a position under this law....... for the amount of the subsidy...................................... or for something else? Have you made any concrete proposals? No. All the time we've been listening to these leaky stories. You are given orders to delay as much as possible and thus show the voters, see how much you defend your positions, but you have no position to defend. All this time your position was only against. But she's like that by all the other laws! You've shown your true face here once again. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u339	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Mr. Zarkov, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u340	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Milkov, my line to you is that you have not been able to tell the ladies and gentlemen that we are against private funding, and any strings that try to do do do do not change the question. You also failed to explain to them that what they tried to do in 15 minutes proved the right of our thesis that the ban on financing by legal entities should simply remain. They tried to score restrictions and came up with a number of questions that didn't have an answer. And they do not have an answer because the initial decision is written in the Law on Political Parties, at this time it is the right one, and by imposing a wrong decision with all kinds of fintifliushki, it remains wrong. You also neglected to explain to them that they are constantly struggling with certain monitoring mechanisms with which we are being monitored from abroad because we do not meet criteria. And as they struggle, they miss out on the question of the irreversibility of a process when we have achieved something like a state, let us not go back. Thanks to the efforts of many people over the decades, we have achieved transparent funding for the political forces. With what they're doing, they're taking us back. And instead of canceling one monitoring, we will be returned to another, the Greco Group of States in the Council for Europe, which monitor the processes of this corruption and, where, as early as 2005, 2006 by 2012, it is explained that: A explicit and consistent legal framework should be introduced on the prohibition of donations by legal persons in the context of financing the activities of parties. A precise and consistent legal framework! At the moment our legal framework is explicit and they make it inconsistent. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u341	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Will you have a hole, Mr. Milkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u342	Honourable Chairman, Honourable Replicators! Of course, my speech gathers within itself the six hours of speaking, but with this I began to think that this text here is key and it has been targeted by all the warnings spoken since this morning. Are we talking in common? I am discussing a particular text containing two hypotheses that I have analysed for you. I don't think that's general talk! However, I believe that each and every one of you, and especially those who are talking about it, must clearly say to him is a left-wing party subsidy and free funding from legal entities in all that you have heard, in all that you have read? I'm absolutely convinced about Greco's reports and everything. People say how parties should be financed. And stubborn, stubborn, stubborn again, just because we decided. We have been very specific and I am absolutely convinced that what you are doing in this case, each of the parties knows that it is wrong. I don't understand why you keep trying?! That's my ass. I am convinced that perhaps very soon you will be in the opposite position to vote back. That's bad for you. Then, of course, we won't stand up and say, "We told you so." It's just harmful, don't do it! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u343	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. Let's move on to the vote. First, I shall put to the vote the unsupported proposal for § 2 under paragraph 2. 2 of the MPs Valeri Simeonov and Christian Mitev. They voted 174 MPs: 13, against 75, abstentioned 86. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. Vote 174 MPs: 12, against 77, abstention 85. The offer is not accepted. We're moving on to editorial repairs. First, we vote on Mr. Simeonov's editorial amendment to § 2, item 2. 3 letter................................................................................. Vote 177 MPs: 110 against 6, abstention 61. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the editorial amendment again of Mr. Simeonov for dropping the letter "b." They voted 171 MPs: 108, against 6, abstention 57. The motion is accepted. I shall put the entire new § 2 to the vote with the editorial amendments made. Vote 171 MPs: 108, against 56, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. For a negative vote, Mr. Stoynev, then Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u344	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I voted against it because we are introducing a new tax on Bulgarian companies. V, of the government that you want us to have less administration and less taxes, de facto you are currently violating your election program because you are introducing a new tax. And this is a corruption tax, a tax for any company that does not support the government, does not finance the government in an election campaign, and will accordingly have all the administrative burden. All institutions will be at the neck of anyone who dares not give any money to those in charge legally or illegally. This is what is happening with this article, with this paragraph that we voted on today. Today, Bulgarian citizens need to know that we have created a new tax on corruption, which will really lead to the total distortion of the Bulgarian political process. I believe that this is entirely unacceptable. We have warned many times! Then don't be surprised when Europe comes and says: you haven't done your homework again, you're not fit for the Eurozone, you're not fit for the waiting room, you're not fit for Schengen, it's just your fault! Today's corruption tax has become entirely official. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u345	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Nedyalkov, come in for a second negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u346	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against it because there are no promised mechanisms for transparency in the financing of the parties with the modification of the model. You cannot mention any text from the just adopted paragraph with the amendments to the Law on Political Parties, where there is some new, secure mechanism on the new way of funding political parties. He's gone! I also voted against because we are going back to something that is already well known We must openly say to our constituents: from one place we take, from another place we oblige others to give. I would like to say that we are giving a mechanism to local authorities that is not equal to parties at local level. That's what we did. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u347	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Mr. Zablyanov, come in for a third negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u348	Dear Madam President, fellow legislators! I voted negatively because the proposed amendments affect another law "The Law on Political Parties." Not that no amendments to other tax laws have been made through the Budget Act, but they concern the revenue section and can be amended according to a decision. In this case, this law amends the Law on Political Parties. The State Budget Act ends by the end of the year and a new one will be adopted and the amendment remains in the Law on Political Parties. It seems to me that this is contrary to constitutional regulations. This is my reserve for the amendment, and I think that with this text, as proposed, we have broken the Law on Legislative Acts. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u349	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Mrs. Stoyanova, we are continuing your presentation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u350	The Commission proposes to create a new § 3 and § 4 and 5: .................................................. In the Election Code (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 162 all over the world after the words "physical persons" is added "legal persons and sole traders." 2. Article 167 is repealed. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 t. 2 is repealed; (b) in para. 2 words. 2 " 5" is replaced by "the" is replaced by "the" is replaced by "the" is replaced by "the" is replaced by "the" is replaced by "the" is 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 after the word "Physical" is added, and after the word "Pysical" is added, a single trader is added; (b) paragraph 3 is repealed. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) point 7 is repealed; (b) c. 8 the words and the property statements of the property of the property provided for use shall be deleted. 6. Article 477 is repealed. § 4. In the Law on State Property (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20, para. 1 the words "Rent Rent' shall be replaced by "Requirement'. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24 para. 2 is amended as follows: The terms and conditions of the provision of state property laid down by a separate law and in the cases referred to in Article 2 (2) shall cease to apply to contracts with a political party where the party concerned no longer fulfils the conditions for the provision of state property determined by a separate law, as well as in the cases referred to in art. 32, para. 3 of the Law on Political Parties. § 5. In the Law on Municipal Property (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14, para. The first sentence of the first sentence shall be replaced by the second sentence of the first sentence of the second sentence of the first sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the first sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 1, t. 5 and para. 4 words................................................................................. 4, 5 and 6' are replaced by "al'. Five and six. 3. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 15a: Art. 15a. (1) Contracts with a political party shall be terminated when the party acquires on-site premises of the same permanent-use type no longer meets the conditions for the provision of municipal property as defined by a separate law, as well as in the cases referred to in art. 32, para. 3 of the Law on Political Parties. (2) The legal relations shall be terminated by order of the mayor concerned, indicating the grounds for termination of the relationship, the evidence collected and the period of discharge which shall not be longer than one month. The order shall be subject to appeal by the order of art. 15, para. 5. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18, para. 1 words "al." 4, 5 and 6' are replaced by "al'. 5 and 6 Madam President, in relation to the proposals adopted pursuant to the previous paragraph, I also propose here in § 3 item. 3 to be amended as follows: "3." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1, t. 2 to be added at the end of the period to which public liabilities are due and/or registered in pre-tax jurisdictions;
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u351	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote first the editorial amendment that Mrs. Stoyanova just made in § 3, item 3. 3. Vote 148 MPs: 96, against 45, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. We are now voting § 3 with the corresponding editorial amendment, § 4 and 5, which are newly created.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u352	Vote 151 MPs: 98 against 45, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u353	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova for amendment and supplement of the Social Assistance Act. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 84, para. 2 sentence 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. Proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs for amendment to the Family Aid Act for Children. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 84, para. 2 sentence 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 84, para. 2 sentence 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 84, para. 2 sentence 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. Proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs for amendment to the Value Added Tax Act. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 84, para. 2 sentence 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. Proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs for amendment to the Law on Income Taxes of Natural Persons. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 84, para. 2 sentence 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. Proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs for amendment to the Social Security Code. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 84, para. 2 sentence 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. I'm asking for a procedure, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u354	Procedure, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u355	Please put the texts so reported by me to the vote in accordance with the Commission's opinion not to consider the proposals made on the basis of art. 84, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u356	Back offer!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u357	Back proposal Mr. Stoynev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u358	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! You can't change those proposals that we've made. There is no way the opposition could be part of the budget update. This is the only way we can make our proposals at second reading. The Constitution does not give us the right to propose an update of the budget. When you managers propose a budget update, how do we get involved in this budget update? We have to figure out what you're gonna put in so we can offer it, too?! The most normal thing is at second reading to make relevant proposals so that this debate is not just about how we are going to liquidate the opposition. After all, we must also think about the Bulgarian citizens. What we have done, as opposition, are precisely concrete bills for VAT, for family aid for children, bills that are good for Bulgarian society. Given that there is such a large budget surplus, I think it is normal to have a gesture to these children as well, not only in the first grade, II, III, IV class. We've got a huge demographic meltdown. We're disappearing as a nation. So it is quite normal to have this debate. I don't know why you're taking our word for it. You won't even let us imagine the proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u359	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. I will put to the vote the Commission's proposal to disregard all the proposals listed, as they are outside the scope and principles of the bill adopted at first. Please, voting mode. Vote 162 MPs: 95 against 67 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u360	Negative vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u361	There's no negative vote on procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u362	We have specific texts! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u363	Mr. Stoinev, this is exactly what we voted for. [[Extreme lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We just agreed not to look at the texts. Continue, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u364	Paragraph 3 by importer: .................................................. The Law shall enter into force from 1 July 2019. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 6. I'm asking for a procedure, Mr. Chairman. I am making an editorial proposal, as today is July 4th, § 3 to be amended as follows: .................................................. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u365	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Mr. Popov's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u366	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also have an editorial proposal. What Mrs. Menda Stoyanova did is not based on any logic. I don't know what the rush is or what the rush is. It has been shown here in this Chamber today to crush the opposition, to suppress democracy. You're in a hurry, obviously, with the entry into force of this law. Vocacio Legis is at least three days after the prom, at least. Why from the day of the prom? There's no motive! There's no motive for this rush. In fact, we heard them here today, but in essence they are not the ones to justify the entry into force from the day of the promulgation. The motive is, as I said, to crush the Bulgarian opposition. I propose the following I think this is a resonant, normal, last quarter of the year, even financially justified. I think that here all the parties that are, except GERB, of course, about them I know Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u367	Come on, stop looking at our accounts!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u368	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Are there any lines? I can't see. There are no lines. That's why I'm giving you the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u369	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Naturally, and for us, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, it matters since when the Law comes into force, because this is not just about subsidies. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we made a proposal regarding the creation of a fund for construction, repair and training in kindergartens. For us, the children of Bulgaria are essential and this fund should be established with the savings from the subsidies of the political parties, respectively from the surplus of the state budget. We have done the necessary consultations with the political party GERB and DPS, where they also supported the creation of this fund, but alas that did not happen. Naturally, they used primos, parliamentary tricks, and they didn't let that happen. With these formal parliamentary techniques GERB rejected our proposal and thus scorched the hope of Bulgarian children, and consequently scorched the hope of their parents, because through the kindergartens, through the creation of this fund we would very quickly return the parents, that is, the mothers in our economy, to our social economy. I call on you, honourable Members of all political parties, to do what is necessary to support our children and thus their parents. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u370	Thank you, Mr. Ahmedov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote the editorial amendment made by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. Vote 163 MPs: 98, against 58, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. I am now voting § 3 with the editorial amendment already adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u371	There was another editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u372	This one's been accepted. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Excuse me? It's a second editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u373	When the first one is accepted, the second one makes no sense.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u374	Cancel this vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u375	Don't give me a hint.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u376	Once the first one has been accepted, the second one makes no sense. What do you want me to say?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-04.u377	I'm sure of it, but... Okay. I will put to the vote the second editorial amendment of the Parliamentary Representative Philip Popov. They voted 164 MPs: 64, against 78, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting § 3 with the adopted editorial amendment of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. Vote 160 MPs: 101, against 57, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We also completed the second vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, No 902-01-28. Colleagues, I will introduce you to parliamentary control reports on 5 July 2019: 1. The Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer four questions from the MPs Valentina Naydenova three questions; and Philip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev; and one question from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Mihailov, Anelia Klisarova, Ilian Timchev, Valentina Naydenova, Ivan Ibrishimov and Georgi Gokov. 2. Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Tonchev will answer a question from MP Krum Zarkov and a question from MP Krum Zarkov. 3. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva will answer three questions from the MPs Rumen Georgiev, Pencho Milkov and Selim Ali; and a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Ivan Valentinov. 4. The Minister of Justice Danail Kirilov will answer a question from the MP Valentina Naydenova. On the basis of art. 96, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly adjourned a question by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence Krasimir Karakachanov to a question by the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to two questions with written answer from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov of a question by the National Representative Nikola Dinkov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov, one question from the National Representative Violeta Jeleva; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov to two questions from the MPs Veska Nencheva; and Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev. In the absence of a Member of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the responses to: - a question from MP Ivan Valentinov Ivanov to Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov; - a question from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev; - three questions from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev - two questions, and to the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov - one question. The Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting due to the use of annual leave. Due to travel abroad at the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Culture Boel Banov will not participate. The next regular plenary session on 5 July 2019, Friday, at 9.00 p.m. according to the adopted National Assembly Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
