ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will read to you the National Assembly's Work Programme for the extraordinary plenary session on 16 July 2019, Tuesday, at 14:00, which has just started: "1." First vote on the Bill amending the Election Code. It was introduced by Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 9 July 2019. 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending the Rail Transport Act. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 25 June 2019 Before that Mr. Tsonev declared a declaration on behalf of a group, we are waiting for him. Mrs. Alexandrova, will we have access to the hall? No. There will be no affidavit, is there, Mr. Tsonev?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u2	Later.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u3	Colleagues, the first point of the day is: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR CHANGE OF THE SELECTED CODEX. For the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I give the floor to Mrs. Alexandrova. Please come in, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u4	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending the Election Code, No 954-01-48, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of MPs on 9 July 2019. At its meeting on 10 July 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Amendment to the Election Code, No 954-01-48, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of MPs on 9 July 2019. The meeting was attended by: from the Central Election Commission Mrs. Stefka Stoeva, Chairman, Mrs. Maria Boykinova, Member, Mr. Alexander Andreyev, Member, and Mr. Dimitar Dimitrov, Member; from the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Danail Kirilov, Minister. [[Noise, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u5	Mrs. Alexandrova, just a moment. Colleagues, please! It's very noisy in the hall. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u6	From the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Mrs. Elisaveta Paunova, Chief Legal Consultant at the Department of Legal Affairs; from the Ministry of Information and Services.Sc., Prof. Mihail Konstantinov, Chairman of the Board of Directors, and Mr. Ivaylo Filipov, Member of the Board of Directors and Executive Director; Mrs. Maya Manolova, Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria; from the Political Party Movement of Citizens (Bulgaria): Mr. Dimitar Delchev, Chairman, Mrs. Stoil Stoilov, Consultant on Organization and Observation of Elections; and from Mr. Alexander Chobanov, Mr. Alexander Chobanov. The bill was presented by Mrs. Alexandrova, who pointed out that it proposes that the engine vote should not apply in elections with multi-brand election areas, as well as elections for municipal councillors and mayors. She added that elections for municipal councillors and mayors are considerably more complicated than other types of elections, as they produce up to four types of elections, with ballots for each type of election being different, which also requires the use of more complex software and a different database. [[Noise, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u7	Colleagues, please! It's very noisy in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u8	Mrs. Alexandrova noted that according to the data from the analysis of the Central Election Commission for the Elections for Members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Bulgaria, produced on 26 May 2019, the machine voting is unduly expensive and the price per vote with it is BGN 59 and with the paper ballot is BGN 0.77. for a voice. It is noted that the price will be significantly higher in elections for municipal councillors and mayors, which are scheduled to be voted machine in 6000 sections, as specific adjustment of individual machines for each type of choice is required, and in separate election areas should be set for three, and in some places for four types of elections. It was stressed that there will be 265 ballots for municipal councillors, 265 ballots for mayors of municipalities, 35 ballots for mayors of districts and 3187 ballots for mayors of town halls. The proposed amendments aim to conduct a broad discussion before the full introduction of a machine vote and to ensure maximum security, accurate reporting of votes cast and, to the highest extent, to protect the rights of voters by working out the relevant mechanisms to reflect the numerous recommendations of the Venice Commission, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe's Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, the Central Election Commission and the specialists in the field. Ms. Alexandrova stressed that in most EU Member States, no machine voting is being produced, an experiment has been conducted in other countries, but problems have been reported and it has been declared unsuccessful or the results of the elections where it was held have been declared invalid and it has been suspended and in third countries is produced only in separate polling stations that are mobile and where voters are voting in hospitals, elderly people and disadvantaged persons. The participants in the discussion were representatives of the Central Election Commission and the Ministry of Information, who pointed out that they were obliged as experts to identify the difficulties encountered in voting with machines in the elections for members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Bulgaria in 2019. They noted that in no country in the world are voted in parallel with machines and paper, with only 1% voting with machines in Europe. Mrs. Maya Manolova and Mr. Dimitar Delchev said the engine vote should be maintained in the upcoming elections for municipal councilors and mayors in 2019. Mr. Danail Kirilov expressed his opinion in a personal capacity, noting that no criticism should be given to the activities of the Central Election Commission in the last elections and pointed out that the debate should focus on the remote electronic vote. The discussion was attended by the MPs Anna Alexandrova, Yordan Tsonev, Alexander Ivanov, Hamid Hamid, Krum Zarkov, Philip Popov, Christian Mitev, Emil Dimitrov, Pencho Milkov and Smilyana Krasteva. MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid stressed that they would not support the proposed bill, noting that they would make proposals between the first and second votes. They expressed a position that the human factor should be eliminated when counting the ballots by the members of the sectional election committees and going entirely to the machine census. The MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) expressed their strong disagreement with the Bill and said they would not support it by opposing the limitation of the possibility of machine voting. Mr. Mitev and Mr. Dimitrov said they would support the bill. They said that experiments should not be conducted with citizens and democracy, as voting machines should be certified and audited. They expressed reservations about the possibility of manipulating the software and hardware of voting machines and pointed out that 73% of all voters voted with the paper ballot. Mr. Alexander Ivanov noted that the Bill does not propose dropping the machine voting in general, but only not to be produced in elections for municipal councillors and mayors, adding that citizens should not become hostages to the painful ambition of certain individuals. He added that society deserves a debate on the various types of voting and the ruling majority will provide it after the upcoming elections. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes in favour, 9 votes in favour and without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a draft amendment to the Election Code, No 954-01-48, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of MPs on 9 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. For the reasons I give the floor to the Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of GERB Dr. Daritkova................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! [[Noise, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u11	Mrs. Daritkova, for a moment. Colleagues, for the third time I ask you to remain silent, and those who are right, let them take their seats in the Chamber or do not interfere. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With the Draft Law amending the Election Code, we propose that the engine vote should not apply in elections with multi-brand election districts, such as elections for municipal councillors and mayors. The draft proposed by us is dictated by the numerous findings on the imperfections of machine voting, established over time by both leading experts in election law and by the representatives of the administrative bodies involved in the production of elections in the Republic of Bulgaria. In 2015, 50 real voting machines were used in the Municipal Election Commission (Sofia), and the software was set only for the selection of municipal councilors. In 2016, in the elections held for President and Vice-President of the Republic of the Republic of Bulgaria, 500 polling stations were held in different areas of the country. On the first round 23% of voters chose to vote machine, on the second round this percentage increased to 33. In the elections for MEPs this year, 3,000 voting machines were used, with only 27.7% of the voters in these sections opting to vote with machines, in 146 sections, or 4.9% of them, no voice was cast through the machine, and in other 295 sections, or 9.9%, machine voted under 10 voters. The remaining 72.3% of voters have preferred to vote with the paper ballot, including sign defenders of the machine vote. By summarizing the costs of hiring machines, certification, market research, procurement, distribution of sections at random and so on, the cost of voting by machine is BGN 59. versus BGN 0.77 for the paper bulletin. The representatives of the Central Election Commission and the Ministry of Information have identified a number of weaknesses in the electoral process when using the machine voting, which pose a risk for the correct production of the upcoming elections for local authorities. According to the current Election Code, in the upcoming local government elections in the autumn of 2019 6,000 machines should be used and placed in sections with over 300 voters. Assuming that about 9000 sections are such, machine voting should be produced in 67% of the sections in the settlements. We need to recall that these are some of the most complex elections because they are to be voted: for municipal councilors with 265 ballots; for mayors of municipalities with 265 new different ballots; for mayors of 35 ballots and for the selection of mayors of mayors with 3187 different ballots. According to the experts, the length of the minutes of the machine voting for some of the sections together with the preferences reflected in them will reach 10 m. There will be other risks and difficulties related to the organisation of the acquisition, update of the software for each type of election, transport to the sections and back with due security, renting storage warehouses, transport, guarding machines between the two tails. Local elections are produced in two rounds on two consecutive Sundays, and if a runoff is required, all machines must return, recalibrate with the current parameters for the specific sections, certify and send back to the sections in extremely short time. The summation of the data from the machines, together with the data from the paper bulletins, will cause significant delays due to the huge amount of information. It is possible to admit multiple omissions and errors, which will also affect the quality of the protocols, and will lead to difficulty in processing them. The input of data, scanning and publication, because we do not have machine counting of votes, but only machine voting with manual summation of the result. It is also compelling that machine voting makes it easier for citizens to choose and make it faster. During the elections to the European Parliament, the maximum number of machine votes in one section for a kind of choice with a national list is 329, or an average of one voted two or three minutes. Assuming that because of the few different lists of the local vote, one vote takes five minutes to cast his vote, at 13 hours of election day, a maximum of 156 people can take advantage of the opportunity to vote machine on one machine, and only in case they vote immediately after each other. In the elections to the European Parliament there was an incorrect reflection of the preferences in machine voting, without, however, affecting the final arrangement of the selected candidates. There is a serious danger in local elections in such incorrect reflection of preferences to break election results and to challenge them. This is particularly strong for Sofia, where 61 municipal councillors will be elected, with preferential voting opportunities. What is European practice in terms of machine voting? Only one percent of Europe votes machine. In most European Union Member States, no machine voting is being produced, and in other countries there is a legal experiment, but a number of problems have been reported. There are countries where the results of the election by machine vote are declared invalid and it is suspended, and in third countries, as has already been mentioned, machine voting is applied only in separate polling stations for voters with physical difficulties, adults and sick. From the foregoing it becomes clear that there is a risk of loss of trust in the electoral system of Bulgaria and a risk to the lawful conduct of the electoral process. That is why we propose in the elections for municipal councillors and mayors in 2019 not to apply machine voting. We need to continue the public discussion and debate because it is important to hear the experts and we must aim to ensure as much as possible the security and correctness of the vote, to defend the rights of voters by also complying with the recommendations of the Venice Commission, the Office of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, the Central Election Commission. With the arguments and facts set out, I would like to convince you that if we really appreciate the democratic right of every Bulgarian to vote for its representatives in the local government, we need to reconsider the application of machine voting. I will ask his defenders not to insinuate false hopes of society that this is a panacea against buys and controlled vote, because that is how it diverts attention from the responsibility of us politicians to conduct fair play in election battles. [[Noise and lines.]] And because we have proved many times that we are responsible, we are standing with our colleagues from the "United Patriarchs" and the "VOLIA" behind this proposal because we do not want to jeopardize the future local vote with endless legal proceedings of challenge and we insist on producing elections with a legitimate result. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u13	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. There was a procedure, Mr. Ivanov. After Mr. Ivanov, we open discussions on the subject. Prepare to speak. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! After the breach of the Customs system, millions of levs were drained from the Bulgarian taxpayer, which had to have entered the state budget after the breakout and the collapse of the Commercial Register after 2 billion were poured in. lv. in e-government, after you adopted a non-functioning Cyber Security Act after you adopted a non-functioning Anti-Terrorism Act, we are witnessing today the most powerful and most serious hacking against the Bulgarian state, the personal data of hundreds of Bulgarian citizens are being drained in an unknown way to us. The state is thundering, ladies and gentlemen! Against this background, we are going to look at this and next week's report on the state of national security, which, to say the least, is tragic. In this regard, Madam President, please invite Mr. Boyko Borisov, Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, personally responsible for national security in this country. To invite Mladen Marinov, Minister of Interior, who is performing the national security tasks, and Minister Goranov, who is the principal of the National Revenue Agency, to come here and explain to the MPs what is happening at the moment. To what extent has the National Revenue Agency's system been breached? Is there a risk of data being exported that could damage the financial interests of the country? Is there a risk that Bulgarian citizens will have their accounts drained, that additional taxes will be charged to Bulgarian citizens? What is the danger to today's state? Once the Security Council of the Council of Ministers is assembled this morning, it is absolutely imperative that the Prime Minister come here and explain to the MPs, to the highest authority of the State, what happens and to what extent are the public interests damaged? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. I will inform the Prime Minister of your wish. You have the floor for debate, Members. Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u16	When will you call?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u17	Wait until we start the debate procedure and I'll go out and talk to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! The Parliamentary Group will not support the proposed bill with the following reasons. Firstly, we are the authors of the proposal for a 30-day engine vote and in the next parliamentary elections - 100% without paper media. Secondly, I would like to reveal to you once again, because we did so in the previous debate and in the Commission we have done so, what led us to resort to this proposal with all the reservations that have been set out by specialists on the machine voting that it was nowhere in Europe, and so on and so forth. Our main motive is as follows: since the beginning of democracy, the weakest link in the entire election process is the sectional election committees. It was said by specialists, said by politicians in the years this has been repeated repeatedly with many, many examples. In personal terms, I will tell you that since the elections for the Grand National Assembly, I have been involved in all the elections that took place in the country where, as a candidate, where as a member of the election headquarters and so on and so on, and I can tell you that there is indeed the weakest unit there. There are numerous violations of the Law. Some of them are from incompetence, others due to incompetence, others due to fatigue, fourth because of failures in procedures, and fifth, but not fifth, due to deliberate manipulations and forgery. By this I do not claim that these manipulations and forgery are necessarily organised over the years by political parties, it is enough to be organised by biases of the participants in the sectional committees. This is also sufficient reason not to take this finding very Partyally, but to accept it objectively because it exists. From this point of view, we, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, want all together to find a model in which the sectional election committees do not actually participate in the counting. Again, this is the great vice of the electoral process, no matter what electoral rules have been in place since 1990. This creates mistrust, and a huge part of the distrust in the system is created by what happens in the sectional election committees, because people face the election process in the sectary election commission. People do not encounter vices, say, the algorithm or who calculates election results, or what happens in the Regional Election Commission, or what happens in the Central Election Commission, but they see what happens in section election committees. So the distrust of the electoral process starts there and ends there, and we need to find a solution together. So the DPS said that we would not only insist on engine voting, we would also insist on engine counting. On the occasion of the debate that we are having here, of course, such a debate is also being held in the media, these days I have read from a prominent right-wing professor, I will not quote it, so that I do not give it any undue importance, with my respect to all those who have participated in this debate, he was reading about the engine vote, but he did not know what this is. I'll advise everyone who doesn't know to get some idea, to go, to play a lottery ticket at the first lotto point. There they will see a form of checking and counting, reading because they are running their ticket and the machine is reading everything that is written in this ticket, and transferring it to the relevant database. Of course, there is a machine counting in the two largest countries in the United States and Russia, and there is a machine counting of the results there. We can take it to the United States so we don't take it to Russia, because we're going to jump one more cohort against it, but we can see how it works in the United States, although from the same people we're going to hear: we here in Bulgaria are not the United States, we can't carry their model. See how it works at the lotto checkpoints. It's so simple: you play your ballot and the machine reads what's written on it, and when the election day is over, the results across the country will come out and will not count SICs, and there will be no invalid ballots. In other words, we insist that these things should either happen, or both, in order to avoid the vices of the current electoral process. On behalf of the group, I'd like to say a few more things. Our finding is that the engine countdown of these elections was deliberately compromised, categorically! First, the state has an e-government agency, and it has no capacity to certify. Can you imagine? I can't. There's a State Agency for National Security, and she couldn't audit the results of the machines afterwards. We believe that this is sabotage by the state authorities. Did someone order it? We cannot say, but the state has the capacity to deal with both auditing and certification and all other problems. There are other authorities in the country that can do so and have the capacity to do so. Secondly, why do we think it's sabotage? The Rights and Freedom Movement explicitly suggested, when we adopted the Election Code, not to hire machines for the value of new ones, if possible, that this scam be missed by those who make it, at least this one is produced. Colleagues, this does not represent any complexity. We offered us a service that has capacity, and now it's legal machine voting software back in 2009, if my memories don't lie to me. To make the software because the software of these machines made by the supplier was now compromised. This has not been heard and has not been accepted, so we have our reasons... Not to mention that this happened later, not to mention that there was not enough clarification in the process itself, not enough information or later information was submitted, and so on. We do not share the conclusions that engine voting is a failure. It was a pre-known, largely failed, but that doesn't mean it can't be fixed. The only thing with which we agree from the parliamentary group of..The Movement for Rights and Freedoms is that there may not be time for these local elections to be implemented in a volume of 6000 machines, because there is really no time for all these vices to stress, in our view, knowingly challenged, to be removed. But this does not give you any reason lightly to exclude the engine vote from the two most important choices in the country, the parliamentary and local. Okay, for the locals you have arguments, there's no time, there's vices, there's no time to remove them. Why are you shutting them down forever? So in the department and in the parliamentary department. Dear colleagues of GERB, this draws attention to you in a very bad perspective. I want to tell you directly from this tribune that you want to keep the manual counting in the sectional committees and accept all the defects that are happening there on yourself. Don't do it! I don't think it's necessary. Let's sit between first and second reading and solve separately the problem for these elections, but solve the problem from now on, so that there's time for the machines to produce, the software to create, the organization to create, possibly to have machine counting, because it's not... We don't need to find the hot water. There are technologies that are already invented, we'll see what they are and we'll do it. Bulgarian softwareists are already involved in creating artificial intelligence in very powerful software companies around the world, and we are now wondering if anyone will be able to produce software for elections in which there were 27 or 37 components. That, if you tell a serious software guy, he'll laugh at you. Let's take this seriously. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms is going to go this way. We are going to vote against this bill that you tabled, with these arguments, and between first and second reading we are going to make you the proposals that I have spoken about. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u19	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Tsonev, your speech has been extended. You correctly put the issue of machine voting in the context of democracy and the representative reporting of the votes of the Bulgarian citizens. This is the way to look at it, I am convinced. I have a few comments on your speech and on the conclusions you presented about the problems being in the SICs. In the most severe periods of political opposition in Bulgaria until 2009, at least I do not remember any controversial elections, except those of 10 January 1990 and the City of Truth. I have no recollection of the election being challenged and that the S.I.C.s don't work. Even after the election of the National Assembly in 1997, it seems to me, it was then in April, in a very complicated social policy environment. All political parties at the time, BSP was in a very difficult environment. We acknowledged the results of the elections. You know what majorities were formed by 2009, what complicated elections were held, including the return of the representative of the former dynasty to Bulgaria. There was no problem with the election. All these questions arose after 2009. I do not want to say anything, but they appeared after 2009. Perhaps the most controversial in this regard were the local elections in 2011, which means that the issue is not related to the SICs. This is my hypothesis. Here I make the line: I believe that the SICs are politically representative structures for the counting of votes. We have representatives of all political parties in the SICs. You remember, there were, I call them extravagants, ideas for forming a deliberate electoral administration. The political parties, the NGOs, proposed to withdraw from the census of the results so that someone else could professionally deal with them. I think it's a crazy idea. Political parties are the guarantor of democracy, the guarantor of their own votes and the technical means in this case are helpful. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. Additional only one question: the software you mentioned. There is only one software in this.. the democratic political consciousness of the government. That's the software. If this software is gone, no other software can help. That's why I find today's debate useful. I do not think that the machines will solve the defect of Bulgarian democracy. We cannot remove responsibility from us as political parliamentary represented parties.............................................. and opposition...................................................... Finding the right path to the authentic election result is my call!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Mr. Toshev, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Tsonev, I'm an engineer and I've studied the full course of mathematics. In over 12 thousand SICs, the probability of error is statistically much less than in three or five people who make the software. For a procedure that needs to be conducted by machine voting or by machine counting, colleagues, it is enough to enter a person to vote 30 seconds with one flash drive and from then on everything will be for the DPS or GERB, or for whomever he chooses, or for anyone. Secondly, we do not have time now.. The elections are scheduled for October 27th. We don't have time to change the voting pattern. [[speaking indistinctly]] We can only undo mistakes from the previous one. Thirdly, what you said: in the European Union. In Europe alone in Scotland, counting is machine and there are currently only between 10 and 13% errors in machine counting in all elections. My last name lives in the States, and there the way has nothing to do with any of the Europeans, at least with the Bulgarians. There they vote a few days in the mail, two weeks before that on the Internet, three days in the election days themselves. And by the way, if we choose a president the way they chose us with three hand-to-hand votes, we'll be disbanded as a country. Those were my serious questions to you. Do you think we can realize what you're proposing? Otherwise, there's... I am from a small region and we are experiencing extreme difficulties with the members of the SIC in their selection and in their training. It is extremely difficult. I understand completely, but we do not have time to solve this problem now. Now in a slightly more humorous tone. Don't give us an example of the lottery, because in the same mathematics I've studied, there's no chance of winning, let alone in two weeks in a row, the six and someone becoming a billionaire with that money. You said GERB's hand was light. The hand of GERB is not light. It's not easy at all. You've experienced it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. Third line? Here you go, Mr. Ebatine.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u24	Dear colleagues, my reply is in addition to Mr. Tsonev's statement because both they and you colleagues from GERB, and we know why we want to have a machine vote, to cancel the manual counting and it to be machine. Only from the last elections in Varna can I tell you that we are missing more than 1000 votes. It is difficult to provide people who are in all sections and can control this process. If you want proof of this, let us open the sacks of the last European Parliament elections to see that there is a difference between what is actually accounted for and what is actually. That's why we're insisting there's a machine reading of the result.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. Mr. Tsonev, come in. You have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Zablyanov, Mr. Toshev and Mr. Ebatin, I will respond to the three of you with a specific answer whether the defect is in the section polling committees there is the big defect, but I said there are other defects. Evidence of this since 1990 is that there have been many complaints, and there have been quite a cast elections due to errors in the sectional election committees. There are court decisions to cast local elections, councillors, mayors not to list them, because there are a lot of them. That's one of the evidence. The other evidence is contained in the following fact: in 2013 we organized a parallel census of election results with your party BSP. Only 67% of official protocols were wrong. It wasn't ours that were submitted to the RIK and the CEC, because we had copies of them coming to us. You just can't imagine what kind of rags the minutes of the sectional election committees were, so I apologize for the term of this high tribune, but I can't find another word. Signed, rewritten, redacted, counted. And now it is. And now the corrected, the wronged and the rigged protocols are more than two thirds. What more do you want as an argument to take away the right of the sectional committees to count? Let them monitor the election process, let them do everything they need to do, the tasks assigned to them by the legislation and by the regulations of the Central Election Commission, but the facts speak and we must look at them as they are. As for this, Mr. Zablyanov, which party is responsible and to seek political dividends, we refuse to seek political dividends by not blaming any party for anything else, but in the hope that we will find consensus to solve the problem, because the problem is very big. Otherwise, yes, we can talk about this subject with a large dose of specifics. One more thing about Mr. Toshev's theory of probability has nothing to do with the fact that a similar machine is used in the sports atomizer, which registers everything that is written on a ticket. Agree that the electoral list we are submitting contains a certain type of information that is written down for whom you voted, for whom you gave a reference. This is easy to register, read and put into the relevant database and then counted. It's quite simple. For this reason, I do not believe that any of my comments have given substantial arguments against our position. On the contrary, these were arguments in support of the position that we should seek a solution to this issue. Yes, Mr. Toshev, there is no time for these elections to be corrected for this deficit, this chaos, which, to try, was created deliberately according to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u27	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I will try to do an analysis, dissection of the dispute as far as possible. What do we got? On the one hand, mostly technical arguments that machines cannot be delivered, reprogrammed and so on that few people in the last European elections have benefited from the machine voting that there is no such miracle anywhere in Europe, see, machine voting. These are the main statements that we have heard and which are very much visible in the Central Election Commission Report, which was used as a flagship of the attack on the machine vote. On the other hand, what are our arguments and arguments, or at least a large part of them? First of all, they are political, consistent and are built on irrefutable facts in Bulgaria we are trying to introduce machine voting more than 5 years ago experimentally with 1000, with 3000 machines, at your suggestion, then it had to be 6000 and across the country with 12 000 machines. So this isn't some new thing or some exotic thing that still reveals the flaws. Those flaws were known years ago. Next, there are zero per cent null ballots in the engine vote. For comparison, in the last parliamentary elections, the number of invalid ballots exceeds 160 thousand, which makes a parliamentary group and a half here in this National Assembly. About 7% are the null and void ballots. After all, one of the main objectives of representative democracy is that each vote feels represented in the representative authorities of the state and not 160 thousand votes in the trash can? And here your argument for Europe is automatically dropped, in my opinion, because nowhere in Europe is there 7% invalid voices, nowhere in Europe is such a severe deficit of trust and a sense of manipulation of election results. In almost the whole of Europe, and not only in the world, but also in the world, either the engine vote has been introduced, or in the near future it will be introduced, it has already been prepared. I will only mention England, Italy, France, Holland, USA, Portugal, Russia. In all these countries, or in the near future, within one year, there will be a machine vote, or already there will be one, honourable Members! There is a severe deficit of confidence in Bulgaria in the counting and reporting of votes in certain elections. And this deficit is completely legitimate. It has been confirmed in practice by the machines themselves in the last European elections, because in one third of the sections, more than 1000 sections, at 3000 sections with machine voting, there is a problem. And it wasn't the fault of the incorruptible machines. There is a problem in more than 1000 of the machine voting sections. It's a very serious thing, a third of the sections! Where is transparency and democratic electoral process? Where's the trust in the election process? He's gone. When there is no confidence in the electoral process, there is also no trust in the authorities broadcast through this electoral process, eroticizes trust and support in power, and it, in turn, approaches aggressively and brutally to maintain power. The first victim, of course, is democracy in all its dimensions, such as freedom of speech, fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. These marks are visible and clear. You can see the rating of the National Assembly, of the executive power, the place of Bulgaria at the end of the line on freedom of the media and so on. With all these facts being put as an obstacle to the introduction of the machine voting, some technical problems that are and solvable sounds insulting to the intelligence of all Bulgarian citizens, absolutely irrational and unsatisfied, I think. Then let's take a look at the real reasons for this 180-degree turn with a parking brake. Let's ask ourselves the resonant question: Are the government scared, is GERB scared, by fair elections, by elections without the possibility of manipulation? Is GERB afraid of the incorruptible machines that will not write their writings in a picture of the electoral protocols? Apparently, yes! There's no other logical answer. This is the reason why it is carried from a hundred wells of water only and only not to introduce the engine vote, as stated in the Law, as you have voted it. The next inadequate argument only 8% of those entitled to vote used the engine vote. How many percent of those who have the right to vote have you given the opportunity to access machines so that they can vote? Only 3,000 out of 12,000 sections, and not all 3,000. That is, you do not allow everyone to vote with machines, but you forbid them in practice, and you also report that it was only 8%. The correct number here is 27. Twenty-seven percent of the people voted in the sections where there is a machine, voting with one. That's not a small percentage, and that's not a small percentage of activity. There have been difficulties in previous years when switching from different colour ballots to integral, then with preferences, but we should develop, honourable Members. The process is called an evolution. The next one is the financial argument. The machines were expensive. Well, they'll come out expensive when they're hired with 70% of their purchase value. I said it: it's like renting a car for a day for 2100 leva. at a purchase price of 3000 BGN. Of course it'll be expensive. However, if these machines are used at 15,20.30 in a row, they will not come out at all expensive. Yes, you are! Moreover, it is somewhat arrogant in these decrees of the Council of Ministers for hundreds of millions, without clear criteria and rules to assess how much more expensive the accounting of the election result will be. And all this with this fracking low turnout, which, I think, is Bulgaria's main problem. Here again we return to the issue of trust in the electoral process and its lack on the part of Bulgarian citizens, which is one of the main reasons for low voter turnout, and hence the legitimacy of every government, meaning I do not trust that my voice will be taken into account correctly, therefore I do not trust the so elected authorities, and I will not vote. Trust in this case is a value that defines the legitimacy of government. Machine voting is a tool to restore confidence in the electoral process and hence to increase voter turnout and legitimacy of state institutions. A country that is playing a trial a mistake, the country that comes to me with fundamental norms, such as those in the electoral legislation, believe me, is not modern, is not attractive and is by no means the rule of law. The sense of freedom of nationality, of belonging to the modern democratic world is only possible if one is convinced deep down that democracy has the freedom to be an equal, responsible and socially active citizen. With these actions, honourable rulers, you have reached out not only to this inner conviction of the Bulgarians, but also to these values, such as freedom, democracy, equality. You have turned apathy and fear into virtue, and this, my dear, is a request for dictatorship. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u30	Mrs. Krasteva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u31	Madam President, honourable Members! In 2016, the Central Election Commission reported a successful engine vote. Now in 2019, the Central Election Commission successfully held the elections for members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Bulgaria in 3000 sections with machine voting. What requires a change of electoral rules three months before local elections are held, and in the recommendations of the Venice Commission not to change the electoral legislation at least six months before elections? Why so fast? Why, as a fire command, colleagues from GERB, are you bringing these changes to the Election Code with a proposal to drop the engine vote? I do not accept the reasons of the importers that it is very likely to come to a declaration of the choice of nullity and a reduction of confidence in the electoral process if the voting machine is not removed. On the contrary, the engine vote increases the transparency and democracy of the electoral process. But let's see the numbers. There are about 159 thousand voters who voted by machine. More than 27% of voters in 3000 sections, in which they could vote by machine, preferred this way, at 23% in the first round of the presidential elections in 2016. The figures show that the number of voters with machines and the confidence of citizens in this kind of choice is increasing. The voting by machine takes place in sections across the country from 31 electoral regions. For the first time, the right of Bulgarian citizens to vote with machines was granted on such a scale, and one third of the voters realized their right to vote with machines, and not as somewhere manipulatively pointed to 8% of the voters. Yes, 8% of the voters are one third of the citizens voted, not of the citizens who have the right to vote. Invaluable experience has been gained and know-how, which the different levels of the electoral administration, the Central Election Commission, the regional electoral committees and the SICs, have accumulated on the organisation, acceptance and processing of the election results of the machine voting. The figures show the increased confidence of citizens in machine voting. And now you're suggesting that the engine vote be dropped. The vote is a form of expressing the political will of voters, by which they determine who to choose. The voting by machines makes it possible to quickly, easily announce the outcome of the vote and ensure that the vote is correctly taken into account. The main arguments in the motives are technical problems. Why is it because of technical problems that can be resolved to change the Law, and in the direction of depriving citizens of their democratic right to vote with a machine? This amendment takes a step back and this violates confidence in the electoral process. Perhaps because engine voting allows for a reduction of the controlled vote, which is one of the main vices of the electoral process. Those difficulties in taking into account the preferential vote, discrepancies and errors in the SIC protocols may be resolved with the timely implementation of an explanatory information campaign. At the meeting of the Legal Commission, the President of the CEC stated that the engine vote could be held now in 6000 sections. The upcoming elections for municipal councillors and mayors can be held successfully in a machine vote due to: firstly, readiness of the technical specification with certain cosmetic improvements; immediately to declare a public procurement and awareness of what to improve in the content of this contract. In the timely resolution of these organisational issues, the selected contractor will have much more time to organise the implementation, including the installation of software, training of the SIC, carrying out audit and certification activities of each machine. There is also the experience that 20,000 members of the SICs who conducted the engine vote have accumulated in the past elections. There may also be a targeted increase in remuneration of members of the SIC in which a machine vote will take place. Early preparation of Methodical instructions for machine voting and correction of the election book. The SIC protocol, with the introduction of separate voting lines by paper ballots, machines, and the aggregate result which will result in the elimination of the non-compliances received. Unexpected difficulties in the so-called complex elections, as the elections for mayor and municipal councillors have been pointed out, can be minimized by auditing and certification of voting machines by a state body specified in the Election Code. Second, easing the requirements of the sectional protocol. Thirdly, if the machines are to be purchased, the organisation of acquisition, storage and management between the elections should be entrusted to the administration of the Council of Ministers. An administrative penal composition of the SIC manuals which have not reflected the preferences given may also be provided. So we can find solutions to technical issues, but let us not deprive the electoral process of transparency and democracy and protect voters' rights to the highest extent by not supporting the proposed draft law amending the Election Code. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u32	Thank you, dear Mrs. Krasteva. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you are, Mrs. Alexieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u33	Madam President, honourable Members! I will refer to the subject of amendments to the Election Code as a person who, for 12 years, has been dealing with the topic of elections. We at GERB are worried and concerned about the upcoming local elections following the analysis of the Central Election Commission with all the findings that have been made, following the opinions of leading experts and analysts in the field on the problems of machine voting in the European elections. The goal that we set with the introduction of these 3000 machines in the European elections is to facilitate the electoral process, facilitate the work of the sectional election committees and reduce the errors in the protocols, was not justified. On the contrary, the machines have made it even more difficult for the work of the sectional election committees and have led to many errors and discrepancies in the protocols. In 3000 machines 1200 showed errors and inaccuracies in election day. Local elections are the toughest, toughest choices we've ever had. We have a three-vote vote in places with four different ballots. I will give an example with Sofia, from where I am the MP: we are voting for mayor of the municipality, for district mayors, in 32 settlements for mayors of mayors on the first and second round, and for municipal councillors with 61 candidates on the list for municipal councilors with preferences. You know that more and more voters prefer to vote with preferences and for each voter and for each candidate it is very important that the preferences are correctly taken into account. Only the protocol from the machine for municipal councillors for Sofia will be over 10 meters long and there are settlements in the country, where several votes and preferences are crucial for the election vote. As the machines of the local elections increase to 6000, there is also the possibility of increasing the errors and discrepancies in the protocols, making it difficult for the work of the selection commission and the transmission and processing of the protocols in the municipal electoral commission and in the service department. And here we are not talking about mistakes that are technical, we are not talking about this vote being more expensive, we are not talking about the practice of other countries here. Here we are talking about the trust of the Bulgarian voters, here we are talking about the proper coverage of the votes. And if in the European elections these errors do not reflect the votes and the result that was received, then in the local elections there is a danger of their cassation, there is a danger of declaring the result invalid and of holding other such new elections. [[Noise, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u34	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u35	Our role is to protect the rights of voters, candidates, members of these electoral committees, all Bulgarian citizens. The measures must ensure legal, successful, transparent and fair elections, successful and easier work of the sectional election committees and transmission of the minutes in general, not only a successful machine vote. With an increase in the number of machines to 6000 in the upcoming local elections, there is even a risk that there will be no possibility to fill the compositions of the sectional election committees. People will not want to participate as members and take leadership positions. This problem stands before all parties, even against higher pay than the state. So the trust, as I said, of Bulgarian citizens in the electoral process is most important, and the security of the engine vote and the secret of the vote we are all talking about in the machine voting are a key factor in this and stand on the agenda. We are not against the engine vote, but we want not to complicate the toughest elections of the locals anyway. After all, each parliamentary party has at least one member in the sectional election committees, there are also members of the parties and coalitions that are represented and in the European Parliament we have advocates, we have representatives of the parties and coalitions that are registered for participation in the elections, we have observers. These people can guarantee democratic, transparent, fair and legal elections. I don't agree with these people being offended and blaming each other for all kinds of things. The responsibility for holding the elections lies with us, the government. That is why we are putting this issue on the agenda, so we are making these proposals and we want to outline all the problems that stand with the engine vote in the upcoming local elections. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u36	Thank you, my dear Mrs. Alexieva. First line, Mr. Gokov, second line, Mrs. Klisurska. I will give Mr. Ibryamov the third line because it became two of the BSP. Colleagues, on the occasion of Mr. Ivanov's procedure, just to inform that the Prime Minister has a prior commitment, but here will come Mr. Mladen Marinov the Minister of Interior, and Mr. Vladislav Goranov the Minister of Finance. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u37	Madam President, first of all, let's extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u38	Extend the time of all groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u39	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Alexieva, I'll give you a line when we talk about preferences in general. For the most part, CEC members are incompetent to perform their duties during elections, not on a professional basis, but on a political basis. I think with the introduction of the machine voting, this incompetence is largely eliminated. On the occasion of the preferential vote, where you said the machines were mistaken. I must now tell you that the members of the SIC, taking into account the preferential vote, do not fulfil their obligation at all to reflect these preferences in the protocol. Not to tell you that a dozen percent does not reflect them at all, but the other... of each group of representatives in the committee are allowed to count the preferences. In the engine vote, this is completely eliminated and this problem is resolved. You want to say from this tribune that the sectional committees are fulfilling their obligations under preferences, and I am saying back, that there will be errors in the machine voting taking into account preferences, which is not the case. Make some arguments about what you're saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u40	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Mrs. Klisurska, second line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u41	Madam President, let's extend the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u42	We've extended it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u43	Madam President, honourable Members! [[Noise and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u44	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u45	Dear Mrs. Alexieva, all this time in the arguments you have talked about the effectiveness and conduct of a normal vote in the autumn it is about the local elections, you focused on the work of the CEC and the fact that you thought that the machines would ultimately ease their work. But you didn't answer the basic questions. On May 21st, Mrs. Alexieva, the Methodical guidelines for operating the machines were published. What explanatory campaign was conducted? And I claim from this tribune that you deliberately CEC, and you, as governors, sabotaged the engine vote. All that you are putting out now as arguments that there is no machine vote in Europe, that the value of one vote is quite high, will in no way show and prove to the Bulgarian citizens that you are not the whole manipulation of the vote in autumn. Because only and only I say this as an ordinary person and not as a representative of the people, the machine is the one where, first of all, you can check your vote and not make a mistake and, second of all, my voice is to be heard only and alone. In our country, where 6 7 percent is the number of invalid ballots, it says that we really need to turn to the engine vote because it is a way not to manipulate people's vote. So, Mrs. Alexieva, the relief of the SIC's work... If you look at the protocols in the way Model No. 85 was introduced for machine voting, and you see the tiny columns in which you should be transferred, well, the Public Council told you how to solve this problem, Mrs. Alexieva, they told you the results of the engine room... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u46	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u47	...vote not to refer to protocol. [[The President turns off the microphones. The MP continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Colleagues, I'll be strict with time. Third line, Mr. Ibryamov. Please watch the time when you run out, I'll give you a signal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u49	Madam President, colleagues! Mrs. Alexieva, it is normal that you repeated three times in the speech to be concerned about the local vote. Maybe there's a reason. The engine vote. If memory serves me right, this is precisely the platform that almost all parliamentary groups have defended in the middle of the night amendments to the Election Code and we have said that this guarantees a kind of democratic choice. But it turns out that by one basic law, which was made in 2013, we constantly make patches and these patches lead to restrictiveness of this law. I can give you many examples, one of which is the inability to open a larger number of sections in countries outside the European Union in order for Bulgarian citizens to have the right to vote. For example, in the 2017 parliamentary elections, when there was no machine voting, how many were the invalid ballots exactly on that manual count that you claim from here that the CEC was the most guarded when it counted manually? That's how I understand your words. Do not frighten the Bulgarian voter with the engine vote. Then you'll give it to them. The fact is that the local elections are the most important ones - they elect the local mayors, the district mayors, the municipal mayors. But you can't convince me, because the midnight polls until 12:00, until 1:00, even later, and finally only the signature of the chair and the secretary of the section, we are talking about section election committees, where the biggest problems in filling the protocols become, is this to be the most credible information?! From this tribune, Mr. Tsonev mentioned the 67%...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u50	The weather, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u51	I'm done, Madam President. ...67% wrong protocols. So please be objective in your speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u52	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Alexieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u53	Thank you, Madam President. I will try to answer as many questions as possible. I just want to say that the BSP has a representative in the management of each sectary election commission, so you can say that these people are incompetent and cannot properly reflect the preferences............................I do not know exactly how you manage with the people who are both in the sectional committees and in the regional electoral committees, in the municipal election commission and in the Central Election Commission. In the end, I would like to say that the problem that we are drawing up and which we are talking about is those mistakes that even occurred when the data from the machine's protocol is being taken into account with the paper ballots. I do not think that this mix of votes can be successful, democratic and facilitated. And in the end, we propose in a year when there will be no elections, after the local elections, that there be a broad debate, an in-depth analysis to see absolutely all points of view and really approach... [[Noise, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u54	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u55	...expert on the subject and on the problem, not to completely politicize this topic. I don't think we're messing with the fears, and we're pimping out the engine vote, you see, is very bad and very scary. But really with the introduction of these 3000 machines in the management of GERB, because previously there were quite a small number of experimentally made machines, the errors were shown, mostly I am talking about the errors in the protocols, with the coverage of the results. So I can answer your questions that you asked. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u56	Thank you, my dear Mrs. Alexieva. Any other speeches? Mr. Zarkov, order to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This is the third time we've had this debate in the last three months, and there's no need for high decibels, there's no need for reason. Is there any difficulty in introducing the engine vote? Yes, there is. Are these hardships overwhelming you? Yeah, they're overpowering. Are they still viable for the current vote? Yeah, they're still getting through to the current vote, and I'll tell you why. The difficulties which were caused by the last introduction of the machine voting were mostly because of such debates because of the fact that at the last moment we opened the Election Code, because of the fact that the road map drawn since 2014 was not respected five years ago and the road was vitiated precisely with a request to cancel the last-minute engine vote. This is the main reason why engine voting does not take place in the most effective way. The price of the voice, please do not speculate with this topic. The price of the vote deemed to be a limited number of machines hired for only one vote cannot be disclosed in any way. If you, Mrs. Daritkova, as an importer of the Bill, buy equipment for your office to use for ten years, it will have one price. If you hire only one patient, there will be another price. The price of the vote in this case is absolutely irrelevant. [[Reply from the OP: "Speak in Bulgarian. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u58	What does it mean?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u59	Secondly, what happened to the mistakes was because of the fact that the CEC protocol was not prepared qualitatively. He wasn't the same as for the presidential election, where there was again a machine vote, but there was no same problem. The summation didn't happen there. [[(GERB's lines: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, ……]] All difficulties have solutions and I will prove to you that I am not the only one who says so.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u60	Oh, my God! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u61	In your bill, the main motive is a CEC report, but one CEC report.................................................................................................. Why didn't I put the Public Council report to the CEC into your motives? Why not put in your motives a proposal to improve the electoral legislation in the CEC, where all these problems are addressed and the ways are outlined [[GERB lines]] .... to be.... They're yelling at me, Madam President, because there's no time. There will never be a time, dear gentlemen and ladies, if the Election Code opens before any choice! Time should be considered from 2014 until the first time the engine vote was put in place. There was no machine voting anywhere in Europe. That's not true! [[Noise.]] Everywhere in Europe, this method goes to both machine voting and machine counting. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u62	Colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u63	And in France, and... Look, I said there's no need for high decibels, but for reason. If we look with reason, we have to say this. Machine voting is not a panacea for all the failures of the electoral process, but it is a step forward and we should have continued on this path, not trying to block it. The big problem of Bulgarian democracy is not the way it is voted, but the fact that people no longer make sense to vote. They do not find any sense to vote because those who send by their voice the MPs, instead of going forward, are going round and round. That is what we are doing, and we are now talking about the same thing a third time, and instead of going forward, we are going back in time. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and the engine vote will be a fact, it is inevitable. As you introduced the electronic wine, from the beginning there was a problem, it didn't make you cancel it, it made you improve it. It's one way to take other people's money and another way to read their voice. The second is no less important, understand it! This debate is not profitable for you or anyone else!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u64	It's not for you either.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u65	This debate is harmful in general. We had to save it and there could be something else here. We could look at those measures here that would help the election process, including the engine vote. Such proposals exist and could be made. You chose the path of confrontation, with which you distanced yourself not from us, but from the Bulgarian citizens! [[Applause and cheers by "BSP for Bulgaria": "Bravo," Zarkov! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u66	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Markov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u67	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm taking the floor to get out of the one that's already become a very technical debate. Since we have half the mandate of this Parliament, I can make one finding that there are two subjects in this Parliament who are obsessed. I confess that one of them is me from morning till noon talking about Orban, I wrote a book about him, now make a bridge Warsaw This brings me pleasure. Man is Europe's best winner, 52%. The other obsessed in this Parliament are the honourable colleagues of the Socialist Party. I say this with respect to you because you are a strong party, you are in the top five by the result of these European elections with 6% are the French Socialists; 15% are the ones in charge; 6% are the Hungarians; the Polish are outside the seed and in the Czech Republic Freedom, which was the prime minister, has dropped to 4%. You're obsessed with the idea of engine voting, and I understand. You've lost elections many times! From captivity to captivity, from congress to congress, in the middle of Buzludja, and not once have you taken account of your mistakes. It's a political debate for me. You believe that these permanent victories of GERB are due to the manipulation of the vote. I was watching a very interesting show, a prominent socialist, a very nice person we talk to on the sidelines, participated in a prominent journalist. She asks him: "Well, there is no such vote in Germany and France." He says: "Yes, there is no, but in Germany and France there is no GERB. " [[Applause from GERB.]] I won't! There is neither in the Christian Democrats of France, nor in the Christian Democrats of Germany, nor in socialist parties a person who has appeared naked as a rifle, without a party, without subsidies, without international support for the mayor of Sofia and to defeat a 100-year party by 70% by 30%, with a strong candidate [[Applause from GERB]] Tania Doncheva, head of headquarters, very rich, very experienced and very cunning socialist, such as Rumen Ovcharov. Sam beat up Boyko! You should have made a party forum and asked yourself why. [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria "We did it!"]] Since you are talking about manipulation of the vote and that there is a feudalization in Bulgaria, let's see the facts: Burgas city Burgas, the sea and the working people [[(a line from BSP for Bulgaria]] Over 200 000 people, 84% of 5% beats GERB. No 84 votes more 84% to 5%. You mean that if there are machines, your candidate will take 84% and Mitko Nikolov will take 5%. Well, they didn't get so moronic about Burgas not knowing who to vote for. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u68	Mr. Markov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u69	What about the other Black Sea handsome man, Varna? Portney, 62%, you're close to zero! Well, let's go into the middle of Central Bulgaria: Tarnovo. 65%........................Panov; Stara Zagora.... this beautiful boy Zhivko.. 79% by 9%. What kind of vote manipulation? It's a killer score! Let's go to Pirin Macedonia to Bitola, 58%. Let's not insult the Danube, but see 53% Stoilov wins in Ruse, Iskren is second and you are only third. How come you didn't ask yourself questions about 30 years of democracy? Why? Not once in Sofia and Plovdiv will you win a mayor, and you can't go near the results at the time of the SDS, now on GERB. You tried to turn the engine vote into a national cause, that's your right. I respect you and respect the very strong manifestations of Cornelia Ninova. I personally shook her hand in the towers and publicly congratulated her on the Istanbul Convention, and I will have to congratulate you again because Mrs Ursula Mayer is speaking about the Convention again today. I congratulated you on the Migration Pact, but there was no national cause, you left the parliament and made the rudest political mistake I have ever seen in the new history of Bulgaria. I say to Mitko Glauchev: Mitko, there is no poster was, brother-in-law, and he says to me: "Go beyond to see if there is any. " I'm going, and Yolo Denev is not, this child of democracy, with this hypersensitivity. [[Applause from GERB.]] Even he didn't catch fire. Not even professional Protestants showed up. You have to see the truth in your eyes. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This is a disease of European Socialists, not only yours. He was asked sadly by the famous Durchan: "Abe, Mr. Durchan, why did Orban beat you by two thirds again?" I don't know how he does these things. I ask Joji the regular socialist, he is a communist: will you beat Orbán?Sogi says: "We can't, sir, the people are with him. " Well, the same work here too, machine, there is a machine, you lost the elections again. For me, my dear Mr. President, and you have a commitment to the president has been pre-electional to you here in this Chamber. Let's see the big problem of selective law in Bulgaria and it is at least to have a decent electoral system, to have majorities, stable political parliamentary majorities, because the government is an emancipation. It's not agony. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Look, it's not easy to make a coalition of a winning party with a coalition of parties. One day your turn will come. Well, she, democracy, is rotation. Since I was talking about Orban, I'm going to take the liberty of giving you some advice to learn from him. Not for family politics, not for the border and all his successes. When he was in opposition, he showed great patience. Eight years of patience is his mother, not to leave parliament without any cause, to believe that the vote of voters is replaced in Bulgaria only because GERB is a winner. Therefore, I suggest that this debate remain in the past and that we concentrate on this stable parliamentary majority. I just took a bus home. Eleven hours of swinging from Hungary, shaking because of Mrs. Daritkova because of GERB. I was jealous of my colleagues, but they have a majority. They accepted the budget, July 12,.. they are ready with the budget, they kissed, the opposition reads a declaration. Who on Balathon, who gets where, but they have a majority, and that's why they have 105 billion exports. That's why they're there, that's why it's there, it's there, it's there, it's there, it's there, it's there, it's Opel, it's there, it's there, it's there, it's there, it's there, it's there, it's there, it's there, There's political stability. We've been playing political agonies here for so many years. You must accept that GERB has a strong leader, good mayors. Parvanov, your president, calls Boyko 2015 and says: "Where did you find these people? " You call them feudals. So who's a feudal? The humble Bulgarian teacher, the mother of Fandakova, who made the socialist Ivancho to buy a ticket and from here to take the subway to the airport and the socialist Peter from Lyulin to go to Mladost, who didn't think that you didn't do it. [[Laughter]] Now, because he's got a lot of friends here, they're interested in sports. On Saturday, Simona Khalep was crying, and Simona Khalep beat Williams. It's not because she's Romanian, it's because she's such a little girl. [[shows with hand]] came to Bulgaria and qualified for the final several years ago at our famous tournaments, and I watch it Nastase, comes in a car. She started her career at the Armeec Hall, which GERB did! [[Noise and lines.]] And this will always be remembered not by the Hall of Universiad, not by Hall of Festival, but by Hall of Armeec. I refer, I say again, with respect to your views, but I consider something very important, with which I will end. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u70	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u71	You say, "In Europe, Europe." You are very attached to Europe. You came here, you read a statement: the commission hits Borisov. The Dutch Foreign Minister, and he slaps. You don't count the kisses that Merkel kissed Borisov more than Honeker Zhivkov ever did. [[Laughter]] But when you're so attached, there's no engine voting in Europe. What's the question? Professor Konstantinov, a smart man, says: "Stupidity has been." I, because I was a constitutional judge, not to use that term, say, the German Constitutional Court, had the honour of being in Karlsruhe, he was in Karlsruhe to emphasize the distance from the central government. Utah Linberg was a professor. In 2009, the Constitutional Court of Germany annulled the machine voting as non-reliant technical Germany. We once had an idea to become a nation of technicality. Guess we haven't yet. So there is a Constitutional Court ruling in Europe that there is no credibility of the vote. So please don't leave the parliament anymore. We are now going to cancel this machine, it is not a cause, and by 2021 we are together and solve the big problems that are ahead of us. These are: the gender ideology they are trying to impose on us; the migrant pact that they are trying to impose on us, and again today to elect the President of the European Commission to speak about the Istanbul Convention. Thank you for listening. Everything was benevolent and respectful to you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u72	First line, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u73	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Markov, in my line, I will also be well-intentioned. Firstly, you said in your statement that the issue of conduct... And the debate was technical, and the issue was political. The issue of holding the elections is indeed a technical issue, and the outcome of the elections is a political issue. A political issue with which winning the elections requires trust. When elections have been won by you with extremely many doubts about manipulations, with 300,000 null ballots, as many as the votes for the DPS and for the United Patriarchs, then there is no confidence and there is no opportunity for the government to make reforms that Bulgaria needs so much in the different sectors. Then the government lingers in a single way as the prime minister of this government travels the country as a miraculous icon and helps people by treating them by giving them money as if they were his and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u74	Very original. Very original.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u75	So 10 years. So the issue of holding the elections is technical and the results are political. You said something else in your statement that you saw on TV some prominent socialist who I don't know what he said. I also watched videos on TV with a prominent German mayor who explained to GERB's electoral asset how invalid ballots were achieved when they were not submitted properly for GERB. Here is the problem with the lack of trust, and the machines would solve this issue. Thank you for your attention. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u76	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Second line, Mr. Popov, and Mr. Atanasov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u77	Thank you. Dear Mr. Markov, first of all, you said that the problem was that we had left Parliament. It is not a problem who has left the parliament.. I said it in all my speech. The problem is that people no longer believe in parliament. Secondly, you said that Mr. Borisov had appeared naked as a rifle in the local elections and had won. But Mr. Borisov himself confessed and thanked Conrad Adenauer and Zaidel, thanked them in front of the media, so this rifle has a leash, has a syjimka, as they say he was not so naked. Regarding your claim that there was no machine voting anywhere in Europe. Belgium did not give up the engine vote, but it purchased machines for 15 000 sections. In Belgium, it is intended to vote in the next 15 years with machines. In England since 2012, the e-counting system used machine voting, where a successful engine purchase contest was held for the next four years. It has already been decided to implement upcoming elections for the mayor of London. You know how much London is. Italy... in 2017 a machine-vote. At the moment, it is regulated that the engine vote should start at municipal level. The Netherlands is now ending the change of legislation and the introduction of machine voting. In Portugal, it is established in law that the engine vote begins in 2020. In Russia, in the United States, in California, the vote is entirely machine-made. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. In Singapore, over 2 billion people vote with machines. That is why Europe is moving forward and developing, it is not frozen in the past. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u78	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Atanasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u80	Keep quiet and take your seats, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u81	Dear Mr. Markov, with all due respect to you as a lawyer and as a person, I will not agree with you and I will say that, naturally, there are forgeries and manipulations in Bulgaria. It's just a notoriously known fact and I say it after my experience, because now this autumn will be my twenty-second elections since 1992, I am in elections. Let me remind you of something, Mr. Markov. You, as a prominent lawyer, should know that. When this happens to the Commission's seal in the sectary election committee, seal the ballot bag and the protocol inside that gives the results, who should open it? I'll tell you that a very serious TV station in Bulgaria, I'll just say it, TV SKAT, is shooting stunning footage in a very big city. In the Regional Election Commission itself...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u82	Is he in Haskovo?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u83	It's not Haskovo... the bag was printed in the hall. Firstly, it is unacceptable for only one representative of the committee to carry it. The protocol was taken and forged inside the results. This was filmed on TV SKAT. Do you know how long the runoff ended in this big city? Aside from 1416 votes, which is 0.04 in 306 thousand voters. That's what we're talking about, Mr. Markov. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u84	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Will there be a hole, Mr. Markov? No. Colleagues, Minister Goranov and Minister Marinov are here, so please, the Quaestors, invite the ministers to give us information about the situation with...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u85	He's got a dot.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u86	You've turned down the doppelganger, Mr. Markov. Invite the ministers, dear Quaestors! Good afternoon! One of them could even take the stand. Here you go, Mr. Marinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u87	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I will inform you of the information we have so far regarding a signal received on 15 July 2019 for unauthorised access to the computer information system of the National Revenue Agency. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u88	Be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u89	In the course of the computer intelligence and operational search events carried out, the following was found: on 15 July 2019 at 10.13 p.m. an unknown person from an electronic mailbox sent an e-mail to four electronic media. The message indicates a reference to a content sharing site where it is available for downloading a 1.84 gigabytes archive. A password has also been provided to access the data in the archive. After unpacking, the file content expands to almost 11 gigabytes with 57 digital folders containing hundreds of files. In the contents of these files are available fragmented data for hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens, their three names, EGN (single civil number), addresses and combinations of digits and names of Bulgarian companies with their EIC (single identification codes) and addresses, emails, registration numbers of cars, dates, hours, user IDs and more. After consulting the available database of the National Revenue Agency, it is established that the data are authentic and contain personal data and non-structured tax insurance information, which needs to be further processed and specific in order to identify and associate with a specific entity. In cooperation with representatives of the State Agency of National Security, the State Agency of Electronic Governance and the IT department of the National Revenue and Employees Agency of the Directorate-General for Organized Crime, initial actions have been carried out to establish the way and mechanism of data leaking. All available deposits are preserved and an analysis of the leaked information is carried out to specify and identify the number of persons and entities. Actions have been taken to remove the link for downloading the leaked information on the site, which is currently known and accessible only to four media. Currently, operational and search activities and investigative measures continue to reveal the perpetrators of the act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u90	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Goranov, if you'd like to introduce us to the surroundings.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are witnessing the most serious so far known hacking attack, where a huge amount of information, about 3% of the available database of the National Revenue Agency, is confirmed that it is publicly available through information on the Internet coming from Russian domains, and here I do not want you to understand in any way a reference to an attempt to incriminate the Russian country and the Russian state, but this is the factology of the origin of the domain. What I can inform you is that after analyzing the data from the National Revenue Agency, it is confirmed that the data is also contained in the National Revenue Agency database. They are not consistent and represent one of 60 databases with which the revenue administration works. And I would like to reassure, although at a very early stage, Bulgarian citizens, that according to our analyses the information is not enough to be able to make a clear, reasonable and firm conclusion about the property situation of those for whom such information has been distributed. Extremely adverse to the revenue administration a manifestation, which experts say is due to the use of vulnerability of one of the 144 public services that the revenue administration provides for the benefit of Bulgarian citizens as an opportunity for administrative service related to one of the systems called by the English name VAT Refund (VAT refund) is a system that enables Bulgarian citizens who have made purchases in the territory of a foreign country to rely on or use an administrative service for the recovery of value added tax. I would like to say that we are in contact with the European Commission and the European Cyber Attack Office, which has recently acquired legal regulation and is building capacity. We will audit all revenue administration systems. So far, what we have on information from the investigative actions is that the greater probability is that unauthorised access is made outside of the National Revenue Agency, but, of course, is not excluded yet and the possibilities have not been eliminated in any way by untrue actions from within. There is no broken or lost information in the National Revenue Agency, and the information that is disclosed is, unfortunately, other than personal data, and tax insurance information with individual fragments and periods obtained on the line of declaration by taxable natural and legal persons. I would like to draw attention again to the fact that investments in the information systems of the National Revenue Agency are not small all the time, not only since I am a minister, but before that the main idea of the development of these information systems has been to find the optimal balance between the protection of information that is tax-security secret and is protected by the law, and that every Bulgarian citizen can freely take advantage of the services of the revenue administration and fulfil his commitments entrusted to him by law without having to physically visit the offices of the revenue administration. Unfortunately, and without any justification for what happened, such breakthroughs can be historically reproduced in much richer and much more pó informationally developed countries, which, I repeat, is not an excuse, but a finding. The challenges to systems that are open to the external environment and external consumers are growing exponentially, and here the efforts of the executive authority and of all the authorities can not be shown once, as today the Security Council at the Prime Minister discussed a number of measures that could help, and it should be a constant competition with these educated young people of all origin who, on the one hand, want to rub the nose of governments on the other hand, want to prove their own ability to play anti-systemic and to vex governments. I would like to assure you that the capacity of the revenue administration to continue to perform its functions is not affected by this malicious theft of information. Nevertheless, I apologize to all Bulgarian citizens who are vulnerable, and I would like to assure them that the information that is publicly available continues to be protected, on the one hand, to the extent that anyone who is tempted to use it would fall under the blows of the Bulgarian legislation and, on the other hand, the analyses so far show that the content of this information is not sufficient to make a reasoned conclusion about the property situation of any Bulgarian citizen. Every conscientious Bulgarian citizen who fulfils his commitments correctly to the state and has respected the Bulgarian law, declaring the information that the law requires of him, there is no reason to worry about this leakage, which does not in any way diminish the serious security breach of the Revenue Agency. The informational arrays contain information from other administrations, as this database is used for communication between the National Revenue Agency and other administrations that have requested it under the order of administrative exchange for facts and circumstances known to the revenue administration, which have been used for the purposes of example................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Here it will be the challenge in the future to any state authority that wants to open and reveal to the full extent the possibility of administrative service in a remote order with the challenge that the hundred thousand references and declarations per day that process the revenue administration can also be used as an excuse for malicious influence. We have directions from where the attack is coming from, but it hasn't expired 48 hours since we learned of such a leak. Let's work some more and we are ready to take part in any debate on this topic. The revenue administration will certainly continue to use all the instruments that the legislator has given to it to ensure justice in society through the maximum extent of public obligations, so that the Bulgarian public can, through the redeployment of the budget, perform the functions entrusted to the state authorities. This does not make our attitude to information security uncritical, it must be a red lamp for all state authorities that manage large information systems. We will look for the best balance between the accessibility of these systems by citizens for administrative services and the inability to abuse, because the person who has committed this violation of personal data will somewhat aggravate the Ministry of Finance, the Finance Minister, the government, but it is certainly very vulnerable to those innocent Bulgarian citizens whose information has been exposed. In my opinion, the purpose of such.. is not that it is in the rhetoric of the finance minister, but I will call them terrorist attacks on the information..... they do no favour to anyone and we must not tolerate such behaviour, at least praise such people, which is precisely the purpose of terrorism on a global scale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Goranov. Colleagues, thank Minister Goranov and Minister Marinov for coming to inform us today about the situation. Have a good job! We'll continue the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Simeonov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u93	Madam President, honourable Members! Today will be another lost day for the Bulgarian Parliament, completely failed, meaninglessly buried with empty talk, politics and not with much content. That's my opinion. This is the case, and it is not necessary once again for me to put forward arguments against the machine voting............................................................................................................. I understand the position of the opposition in the face of the BSP and the DPS to benefit politically from the situation, as they have been doing for the second year, even more than two years. It's their right. Not every situation is good for the opposition state or any political force to take advantage of it, and it goes to extremes, to the extremes of pushing the Amber. It didn't have to go that far. You didn't have to! Because what you are after, naturally, quite calculatingly and purposefully, is a failure in local elections. But what will happen after the failure of the local elections? What's gonna happen? [[Heckling]] Yes, there will be a crisis, a severe political crisis without a clear outcome. How will it end? I cannot predict whether it will go to another demand for no-confidence vote, it is natural that it will not come to some inspired unrest with continuing indulgence in people's thinking and in society, that these elections are also extremely vicious, and these elections are manipulated that the government is unable to hold some elections, and that will most likely happen if we put the machines in, as you all want from the opposition. Because it is clear to all of you that the choice will be extremely complex in four or five phases. In addition, there will be a need to withdraw the machines within seven days, to reprogram them, to put them wherever there is a runoff. All of this is related to the inconveniences of engaging members of the electoral committees to explain to the people who for the first time exercise this right to machine voting; with all the inconveniences associated with the huge crowds of people who wish to machine voting, which will literally block the larger sections; will slow down the electoral process; some of the people accumulated outside in queues will give up will come back. This is clearly a failure of the elections. However, if you achieve it or if we achieve it all by accepting your thesis, the next election will collapse over the head of the next governors, who may be you. Where's the country?! Where's your state-of-the-art thinking?! If I may, I would return you to the history of machine voting and electronic voting as subjects for debate in the National Assembly. They appeared in 2015 in the change of the Election Code, if you remember. The machine vote was imposed by the partners of GERB.............................................................................................................................................................. It was a matter of deal, and as I recall, the BSP was then against it. If I'm wrong, correct me! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Maybe I'm wrong. I don't remember, but at the time you weren't active in this process of passing machine voting. The biggest reports were from the Reformation Bloc that multi-colored and multi-voice coalition, if you remember, which ruled along with GERB. We were then a supporting political force, I am talking about the Patriotic Front "National Front for Salvation of Bulgaria and IMRO." Even then we were categorically opposed to the introduction of machines for the simple reason that each machine represents some not particularly complex but still a computer that has software. Not only for these reasons, but also for the reasons that the introduction of a machine-voting will damage the budget pointlessly, without any guarantees. Because, as you have seen in the last election, the engine countdown of votes is ultimately legalized and is documented by people. There were examples when the machine was reading the machine's voices, but they weren't recorded in the protocol. After all, it is still about what Mr. Zablyanov spoke about to the administration, to the people who are actually members of the sectional committees who are holding the elections. That's what it's all about. We were totally against it back then. We were categorically opposed and three or four months earlier, when once again here in the Chamber of the National Assembly, this machine voting was imposed upon the last amendment of the Election Code. Here I will reproach our colleagues from GERB. While in 2015, they balanced with the votes and needed the support of the Reformation bloc, it was now a clean trial attempt to appeal to public tendencies and to the general talk of populism. [[GERB lines.]] Three or four months ago, that's why you supported, and that's why it's awkward for you to argue the reverse thesis. I will be excused by Mr. Markov, but as convincingly argued the inability and risks of the application of machine voting, so his colleagues, I cannot remember whether he was speaking at the time, but they convinced us that a machine vote should be passed... the decision in question for the six thousand machines. In other words, the discrepancy of our partners from GERB poured water in your mill, you took advantage of it, but I think that this should end because the state and statehood will go to hell. It is not the number of machines that will convince people of democracy, democracy, the transparency of elections, not this, but the common responsibility of all of us in Parliament and as politicians.... how we fight each other, how we discuss, what we use as arguments, such as epithetes to each other. This is much more important and much stronger influences the public perception of parliament, politicians and so on, hence the rating and perception of institutions. There's gotta be a line everywhere, and I think there's gotta be a norm everywhere. I say we get this debate over with, because engine voting is ultimately the use of a machine. In no way can anyone convince me that this machine can't be manipulated. I'm absolutely convinced! I just came from the hallway and had a coffee for £40. I dropped a dollar and the machine didn't give me change. [[Relations, excitement.]] Maybe that's what's at stake here. Picking up the one-lev coins. The same can happen to other machines. If we really are responsible for the election, let's think about something else. For what I repeat, Mr. Zablyanov redirected the topic and focused on this question: how will these elections be held? Will we have members, chairmen, secretaries of electoral sectional election committees? I don't know about that. [[Heckling]] People are already giving up. There's mass withdrawal on election day. Are we going to put whole sections to the test again to stay with three people, members of the committee? From there the load, from there all this unpleasant saga of wearing the ballots, waiting and so on. That's what we need to think about. These are the problems, not that Mr. Markov here is talking to me about the Istanbul Convention and whatnot. This has nothing to do with our choices. Currently, the topics are the upcoming elections and the change in the Election Code. That's what we need to think about. What kind of money are we gonna pay these people? For 100 leva. They're not coming! I'm sorry I'm being a little pragmatic and commercial. We need to see what money we can give these people to go and motivate them. Otherwise, we won't have section polls, there won't be elections. They will be failed because of lack of people and it will not matter whether there will be machines everywhere or there will be no machines. That's the big problem. Let us also think about how the next elections should be secured, how there should be transparency. Although there is transparency and the right remark was made by colleagues, I do not remember which colleague said that there are representatives of the BSP everywhere, in each polling section. There are representatives of the big parties everywhere and there should be no doubt. You all know very well, and I suppose if you've seen the election process, the election is not being manipulated. Elections are won before the voter has entered the section by 20, with 50 лв. In his pocket, with promises of a job to his wife, to his son or someone else, or the threat of losing his job. That's where the manipulation takes place, that's what we need to think about. There are very effective solutions that other countries implement. I can give you such an example as a reason to think about changing the Election Code. In 2016, a group of MPs from the National Front for Salvation of Bulgaria visited Armenia. We landed at the airport in Yerevan and after four or five days we went back to the airport to return to Bulgaria. We were fingerprinted in three days Armenia introduced fingerprints at all airports, at all checkpoints, entrance and exit points! Half a year later, I improvise, it could have been 10 months later, there were elections in Armenia. There was also a fingerprint machine there, and everyone who came in was putting a fingerprint on it. Thus solved the issue of dead souls, covering the checkpoints and exit points, covered who is in Armenia and who is not in Armenia, so that there would be no manipulations with people who are absent, so that someone would by chance improvise a vote from them and so on. They did it in three days. In three days! Here is also a solution that will very much clear the electoral process. So let's focus on purely political overtalking, throwing accusations at one and the other, so that it doesn't end up so that all of us can bear the responsibility for a total failed election. We're not voting for machines. On the contrary, we will submit a proposal for a total cancellation of the machines in both the presidential elections and for a European Parliament. What's prepared to stay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Are there any lines to Mr. Simeonov? Mr. Mitev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Simeonov, I expected, in addition to the analysis you did, to mention some facts that would complement and further argue your thesis. For example, point out a large part of countries in the European Union and Europe where there is no machine voting, such as Austria, like Greece, like Denmark, like Estonia, like Lithuania, like Poland, like the Slovak Republic. I expected you to refer to the example of Finland, which introduced the engine vote in 2008 in three municipalities, but due to a technical problem in the vote the results of these elections are declared invalid and are cashed out, that is, a result which, if introduced now in the local elections, will be seen not in three municipalities in Bulgaria, but in many more. I also expected you to refer to the CEC analysis, which says that nearly 40% of the protocols in section election committees with machine voting contain errors in account of actual votes or preferences. If in the European elections these errors do not lead to a change in the final result and cannot be reflected, then in the elections for municipal councillors and mayors they will reflect, because there the differences, especially in municipalities with a smaller number of voters, are small, a small number of votes and immediately this is reflected in the final election result and is a basis for a call for elections. Finally, I expected you to say the main thing that is recorded in the Central Election Commission Report, namely that the majority of Bulgarian citizens, where there was a machine vote, did not choose the engine vote, they preferred the traditional way of voting... with paper ballots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u96	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Second line? I won't. A hole? There's not gonna be a duvet. We continue with the speeches. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement or should we finish? Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Thirty years are coming, colleagues, from the first democratic elections held in the new history of Bulgaria after the changes and democracy. Multiple elections for Parliament, for local authorities, for president, for the European Parliament, and all these elections, colleagues, were held with a sheet and a pen. Until when? Until these elections were held for the European Parliament, where GERB dared to introduce this novelty and in three thousand polling stations to introduce the engine vote. It is committed, risked, elections for the European Parliament were held and even the Bulgarian MEPs have taken their seats in the European Parliament. You guys didn't do it in 30 years. Multiple changes to the Election Code, numerous changes to the regulation and conduct of elections, multiple elections since then, colleagues. You didn't hire him. GERB did it and we did it. So far, so good. It is more important to take account of whether, colleagues, the engine vote has met the expectations of the voters and of us lawmakers. And here I ask, colleagues, did the Bulgarians go to the machines to vote, to use this opportunity to exercise their democratic right to vote on machines? Well, the answer is not. In the current elections for the European Parliament, there was a lower turnout than previous elections -- 33% turnout in 2019, fellow Members, against 36 -- 2015. Was the vote more sinless and taking account of the results of the elections? Unfortunately, again, the answer is no, colleagues. Mistakes were made on the spot when taking into account the preferences in the vote for elections to the European Parliament. And here you will say: yes, but people wanted it. And I'll tell you again: no, colleagues, three-quarters of the people who had the opportunity to vote on machines in these elections, in three thousand sections, chose leaves and pen over the machine. From this more real sociology, than what people want, colleagues, health tell him.. 75% said.....................................the machine......................................................... You'd say they were cheaper. Without this being leading in the conduct and reporting of the vote of the citizens, I will say again................................................................................................ when reading a vote from a machine vote. You will say: the citizens were facilitated. Well, unfortunately, again, the answer is no, colleagues. A number of citizens have gone wrong in voting with machines, even, I say to you again, I will return to the three quarters, to those 75% who should be calling us in the heads and in the ears, saying that they said they didn't want to vote machine voting, and they chose to vote with a sheet and a pen. You will say: less mistakes made the sectional election committees, easier for them the election day, which, we all know, is a very long and difficult process. Well, again, the answer is no, colleagues. Again, the answer is not. Well, for the finale, you'll disprove me, I suppose, and you'll say, but that's what they do in Europe. Well, no, colleagues, that's not what they do in Europe. In the Netherlands last gave up the engine vote two years ago, in Ireland even acknowledged the gross error they had made by 54 million. Euro money to taxpayers and returned the machines purchased by the state for engine voting, for scrap and returned nine euros to the treasury. Let us say that the current text of the Law will remain and in autumn we will have six thousand voting machines. You're going to ask me: is it realistic? I will reply to you: perhaps yes, if there are members of sectional election committees involved in the complexity and complications we saw in the elections to the European Parliament a few months ago. You're going to ask me: is it pragmatic? Well, I'll tell you, no, colleagues, and I've listed you why. And here we will ask ourselves the most important question: is it dangerous? Is it dangerous and is this a threat to the fundamental constitutional and democratic right of the Bulgarian citizens to exercise their vote, to report it correctly and secretly? And here, we of the importers listened to the vote and reports of the Central Election Commission, of the experts from the Service of Information, of the electoral experts, if you want the Venice Commission to listen to the advice and findings they made, we also listened to the members of the Election Committees. Colleagues, listen up, and you have members, half of the members of the sectional election committees, these 90 thousand Bulgarian citizens are broadcast by the opposition or by extra-parliamentary parties. And what they all say: that the problems with the machines did not affect the results of the elections to the European Parliament, but in addition the machines are the complexity of the elections to the local authorities and the few choices that should be held then, namely those elections were listed: for mayor, for district mayor, for mayor of the village, for municipal council, for a preference of municipal councilors, colleagues, bequeath and predict in places the failure of the elections, the castration of elections, the challenge of the elections in the court and I return again, that is to say the non-regarding of the votes of democratic elections held by the Bulgarian citizens and their failure. Maybe you're looking for an excuse here, and that's why you're so widely supportive of keeping these machines for the upcoming vote because failure, of course, colleagues, if there is one, will be in our basket, in the basket of the government. But I'm going back to this: why didn't you introduce him for 30 years? So many stories, so many changes, so much doing nothing until this year, when, behold, GERB, we held them and finished the elections, in a quarter of all election sections the vote with mixed, machine and paper voting was carried out. Therefore, colleagues, support the cancellation of the machines in the conduct of the local elections on 27 October this year and do not jeopardize the electoral process. We owe this debate to the people, but let us hold it, not so close, really, to the vote and organisation of the elections, which have repeatedly, both in the debate and on all sides of this House, there have been doubts about the possibility of the proper conduct of these elections. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I can't see. We continue with speeches. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I listened carefully to the fellow Member who spoke, and his speech challenged me to speak. I was thinking whether or not to replicate it. We are offered a bill of amendment and supplement with the relevant motives. Every law has its purpose and philosophy. The aim of this law, which was adopted as early as 2014, is to have a machine vote, not not to have something that is now being offered to us during local or parliamentary elections. That is, the motives do not correspond to the purpose of the original adopted law. Another point is that it has nothing to do with the philosophy of the Law. There is a lot of data and analysis done by the Central Election Commission. I don't know if the opinion that Mrs Daritkova read as an importer was submitted to the CEC or vice versa. I quote: The machine vote only took advantage of this was extremely small, and no one says that only 30% went to the elections and voted. Do I take it, then, that since 27% is grounds for annulment?... [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Alexandrov, you're going to replicate me, don't call! Am I to understand that since 27% is small, 30% is sufficient reason not to hold elections for the European Parliament anymore? There were imperfections in the engine vote. I quote again the opinion of the importer. Imperfections there are, this is true, but imperfections are not from machines, there is no wrong ballot from the machine, on the contrary, when transferring the data from the machine's protocol, in the protocol of the sectary election commission, then stands out and extorts the mathematical school of GERB, the one that introduces data that are different from the data in the machine voting protocol. If someone happened to watch a TV on Sunday, there were particular data that pointed out them. You are again trying to fertilize the Election Code, but I must tell you that in Europe, which you give us as an example, there are between one and two per cent wrong ballots, and here are between six and seven per cent, or translated: in this Parliament, there are between 14 and 17 MPs who do not belong here. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. Any lines to Mr. Baichev? I don't see any lines. A statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to be brief and fit in. Dear colleagues, if the machines were very good and there was no possibility of hacking, why did we interrupt our meeting today to discuss a hacker attack? [[Applause from GERB.]] But we have a great deal of confidence in the machines today. The meeting to introduce the engine vote or to cancel it was interrupted because of a hacker attack. If they were so good, why at the last congress BSP didn't use machines to vote with [[Applause from GERB]] Or did you broadcast people to go, to count the respective votes?! When you choose a leader... [[Reply: "Who?"]] The one you choose. Don't you broadcast a committee, urns with names, fit in, then selected people check them out, read them, sum them up and say, "Win someone." So you trust your people when they have to check the urn for a leader, for a statute or for any decisions that Congress chooses you, but when those same people authorize them to go to sections in the country: we don't trust these people. They're the same ones you chose. At this point, machines will create more problems than solutions. At this stage machines are used only to have reproaches for the executive authority that they will create, allowing machines, huge problems of the country. The next election could win the BSP. Buy as many machines as he wants, introduce them, make some successful choices and get us into the 21st century far before all Western Europe. At this point, since there are still experiments in Europe, let us wait for Europe to introduce these machines, to come to some good results, and we may even be given the machines and the methodology in which they do so, and we can be equal to Europeans. And now, somehow, we stand out to be first among all the others. Let us not pretend to be a greater technical nation than the entire European Union, let us not pretend to be different from others. If the BSP hasn't introduced it by now, there's no need for that. There's no need for the next election. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Are there any other statements? Here you are, dear Mr. Bojankov. You have less than two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u103	Colleagues, you think there's no in-depth analysis of the motives. That's not what you thought when you cut the party subsidies, but here you obviously haven't had enough for five years. Have you made it clear today, colleagues, that local elections are complicated? Were you surprised by these local elections with complexity, did you see them for the first time? You quote in the reasons the Code of Good Practices, you mix electronic and machine voting, and that gives me an explanation as to why some MPs from the government confuse one with the other and think hackers can hack machines that are offline. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Others think they're entering the dark room with one flash drive and hacking a machine. [[Laughter and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm sorry, colleagues, but the problem here is that most of the people in this room are permanent offline. [[Laughter and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] But rest assured, colleagues, machines cannot be hacked. This is not an NRA, so the data of millions of Bulgarians to circulate on the Internet is not a toll system, it is not a Trade Register, it is not even the tiles to raise them sun, it is not a complex thing. A government that has digital EU commissioners, with white hackers, which has people who can reverse a file from the top down, should not be bothered by some voting machines. [[Loud applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. Are there any lines? I have to ask. I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Dear Mr. Nenkov, come in. [[Noise and excitement in BSP for Bulgaria.]] Joyful excitement, keep quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u105	This can only please me. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! There is nothing more important for a democratic state than to hold fair, transparent and easy, as far as possible, technical elections. Therefore, in my speech, I will not stress the financial parameters. I think that even 50, 100 million, however much the state gives additionally, but if it guarantees fair, transparent and easy elections, the state can afford them and no government should ever mourn from this point of view. I am not going to refer to the report from the Central Election Commission, as well, because I am going to look for an argument because we have accepted and made these proposals. I'm gonna try to talk like a man who's been running elections for years. There are a lot of people in this room, including the opposition, albeit zealous defenders, all of a sudden for the introduction of a machine vote with which we have made elections for so many years. You have said some very interesting facts that are largely true, but somehow I cannot agree with some of them as political suggestion. One of them you say: the invalid ballots. I was under the impression, colleagues, that all null and void ballots are in favor of the BSP. No, that's not true! As you suffer, so do we, and every political party suffers because this phenomenon and this effect has it. You say: GERB scared them? I wrote it down exactly, is GERB scared? Colleagues, GERB have appeared in elections according to all electoral rules, including 2009, when you managed, including by election rules of Maya Manolova and any majority, which in the years adopted different electoral rules, and we have won them. And here is the biggest problem: because too much has been politicized and too much politics on this topic, in recent years, wrong decisions have been made. There is no way to accuse GERB of somehow seeking a political dividend in the upcoming elections, and any of them. GERB have always been extremely compromiseable, especially in terms of electoral rules. The topic of engine voting has never been a priority for GERB, and we have never been the biggest winners for this. Not that she doesn't have her positives. The fact is, there are positives, maybe in the future. GERB accepted one such proposal and indeed, as my colleagues before me said, dared to do so, although with all the risks that we have already discussed with each other. The fact is that the engine vote aimed at two very important things: the first, to be easier, and the second, to be more honest and more clean than mistakes. So, is this thing a fact? No! I believe that the engine vote has contributed to these two important topics and objectives. We are on the eve of the toughest possible elections from a purely logistical point of view. Many options we have thought about what to propose, and not because we are looking for some political dividend, but we have made it clear that, naturally, this will give rise to serious controversy on the subject. But as a pragmatist who has been in elections for so many years, we are worried about what will happen in the next local elections in combination with machine and paper voting. We talked a lot about numbers and sociology. I'll give you a very simple example. In the last European elections, when even turnout was higher, in Sofia, for example, the elections ended about one and a half at night. Now they're done at 10:00 in the morning. Other example: 2015 There was not a large city that had entered into the statutory deadlines for municipal electoral committees to hand over their papers. In Sofia, in the 23rd election district, the elections ended on Wednesday evening. These are thousands of people who were forced to spend from Sunday morning to Wednesday evening, waiting to submit their protocols. Now we are talking about hybrid voting, where there will be both machine and paper voting, and on the basis of 2015, I recall, Wednesday evening, I sincerely worry that any deadlines and any reasonable work for these living beings that we have committed on a purely voluntary basis, although they have some financial incentive to abuse them just because we have decided that something we like or dislike. When non-experts speak on a purely expert subject, because in my opinion, making elections should be rather expert and not so politicized, it is precisely these reasons that have led to the fact that in recent years instead of election rules to become easier, instead of the electoral process to become easier, it is becoming more difficult. It is absolutely irresponsible if we now argue that with 6,000 machines in October they will be easier and we will not put the elections at risk, the honesty of the elections, and we will allow for cassation in many places in the elections. And here, colleagues on the left, is the biggest problem. In my opinion, we cannot make some quality, normal rules because you are always looking for confidence in your failures and that there is almost no manipulation of any vote. When, colleagues, did you come out after some choice and congratulate GERB for winning the elections? I don't remember that moment. However, I remember that when President Radev became President, GERB was the first political power and Prime Minister Borisov was the first person to congratulate President Radev. From then on, the campaign until the parliamentary elections was about this.. both internally and politically we have stated that the mistakes are within us, and we have sought the reason in us and not that the electoral rules were one or the other. The easiest way to say it was then President Radev was elected with a manipulated vote! Do you expect that now in the local elections where BSP wins, there is no manipulation, there is no forgery, everything is flowers and roses, where GERB wins, there are almost fake elections?! Therefore, colleagues, I call for a little more wisdom and political responsibility because people have voted and sent us here to make the most forward-looking decisions. I cannot agree that in the next local elections with 6000 machines the elections will be easier or more transparent, because whatever we talk about, ultimately the responsibility always falls on the ruling majority. Tomorrow you may be in the opposite position, with the same rules we are looking for and we excuse that we have not won one election or another. I know, like I said before, a lot of people we've made choices with. If you want, let's do a very simple sociology. Let's do a survey between all sectional committees and municipal electoral committees, where you have representatives in each section in the management positions. Ask: will these elections be easier with 6000 machines, will they be more honest, will there be less mistakes? I'll know what the answer will be. It's irresponsible to blame the thousands of people who don't have to because of some of our good ideas in quotes, to put up with all this unpleasantness. On the contrary, we must have tolerance for them. Let's congratulate them that despite everything, although even the financial state does not spare much for them, they have come for GERB, whether because of BSP, whether for any other reason, but have come and are trying to do their job responsibly. I think we should show them a little more respect. Colleagues, those who are the loudest, not only in Parliament and outside the parliament, I am convinced that I dare say that they have not entered a session committee. It's very easy to put all the weight on someone else's back. However, the weight is here in the National Assembly. We are the ones who vote on the rules by which these people must fulfil their official commitments. I am not saying that without a machine vote on October 27th, the elections will be easy on the contrary, they are very difficult. The facts prove that in the years behind. I believe that if we go to a machine vote, and society wants this thing to happen really, let at least for these local elections not be introduced, because we don't have any luxury... We must be absolutely irresponsible people to allow ourselves to question and demise the upcoming local elections. We're gonna cause a lot of chaos. If we really do a machine vote, the most logical and responsible is when the local elections pass, when next year we have a year without elections, to find an expert start, to find a way to make them easier, more predictable, more long-term, to have rules not to touch. I agree with this thing, but you've done it, and every other party has done it, and we've made changes at the last minute. I think that this is not correct, and in a year when there are no elections, we need to make some quality, more valuable rules, a little policy to go in the background, people to come out who are experts who are pragmatists, and make some quality rules. Everything else is in the field of demagogy, which will not bring positive to either side. I call you for more reason. To approach the state, with a responsible position and not to put the next local elections under the atrocity of failure. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I put to the first vote a bill amending the Election Code, No 954-01-48, submitted by Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 9 July 2019. [[Big part of the MPs fail to vote. It's a thrill. Spits and shouts.]] Take it easy, guys! I'll wait as long as it takes for all my colleagues to vote. Vote 219 MPs: 122, against 96, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u107	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, please, on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be reduced to 3 days. [[Noise, shouts and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. [[National Representative Milko Nedyalkov wants the floor.]] A negative vote you wanted? You passed the procedure, you should have made the motion for the negative vote faster. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u109	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I really don't understand what you're doing right now.! You fucked up the engine vote once, you fucked up the preferential vote, you want to screw up the deadline to the end. [[Loud noise and shouting from GERB.]] Why are you doing this thing? The Bulgarian citizens once told you about the return of their rights! You are currently making sure that we do not have time to submit our proposals. With three days you want to spend some texts as quickly as possible, to take away the constitutional rights of the Bulgarian citizens and ultimately before the vacation, calmly go to the sea. Why are you doing this thing? The engine vote is important! When the BSP group was absent from parliament, you also removed the preferential vote. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u110	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u111	Because in the local elections, you put in place such rules that it makes no sense...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u112	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u113	The procedure is to extend the deadline for submission of proposals between first and second readings on this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u114	Thank you. I put to the vote Mrs. Alexandrova's procedure to reduce the period between first and second readings to three days. They voted 216 MPs: 117, against 78, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point two for today: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR RAIL TRANSPORT. With the Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mrs. Gancheva will introduce us. [[National Representative Halil Letifov wants the floor for procedure.]] Mrs. Gancheva, please come in. In the meantime, Mr. Letifov will do the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u115	Thank you, Madam President. If I may, a procedure for admission to the Chamber on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly of Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport, and Maria Koleva Head of the Department of Legal Affairs of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u116	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. We are voting on the procedure for admission. Vote 160 MPs: 150 against 4, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Gancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u117	Madam President, colleagues, I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Rail Transport Act, No 902-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 June 2019. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 10 July 2019, a Draft Law amending the Rail Transport Act was discussed, No 902-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 June 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, who presented the Bill. The proposed Draft Law amending the Railway Transport Act guarantees the independence of the railway accident and incident investigation body to the infrastructure operator. The Republic of Bulgaria's obligations arising from art. 21, para. 1 and 2 of Directive 2004/49/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the safety of Community rail transport and amending Directive 95/18/EC on the licensing of railway undertakings and Directive 2001/14/EC on the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity and the collection of charges for the use of railway infrastructure and safety certification. In addition to amendments to the Rail Transport Act in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill, amendments to the Civil Aviation Act and the Code of Commercial Shipping are also proposed. During the presentation of the bill Mr. Zanchev pointed out that the Republic of Bulgaria has established an investigative body which is part of the Directorate for the Investigation of Accidents in Air, Water and Rail Transport in the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The Authority is directly subordinate to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. In 2013, the European Commission sent an official notification letter to the Bulgarian authorities claiming that the provisions of national law are not in accordance with Directive 2004/49/EC. The Bulgarian authorities, in turn, submitted additional information regarding the independence of the specialized investigation unit and committed themselves to amending the Railway Transport Act and Regulation No 59 on safety management in rail transport.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u118	In 2015, the European Commission sent a reasoned opinion inviting the Republic of Bulgaria to take the necessary measures to comply with the European Commission's alleged discrepancies of the Bulgarian legislation with Directive 2004/49/EC. The Republic of Bulgaria has notified the European Commission of the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Railway Transport Act, Regulation amending and supplementing Regulation No 59 of 5 December 2006 on safety management in rail transport and Rules on the investigation of accidents and incidents in rail transport by a specialized unit in the Directorate-General for Investigation of accidents in air, water and rail transport. Mr. Zanchev explained to the members of the Commission that in 2016, the European Commission sent an additional formal notification letter expressing doubts as to the independence of the investigating authority under art. 21 (1) of Directive 2004/49/EC and doubts regarding independence in relation to the access of the authority to financial resources pursuant to art. 21 (2) of Directive 2004/49/EC. The Republic of Bulgaria has sent its position indicating that the specialized unit under art. 115th, para. 3 of the Railway Transport Act is independent in its organisation and in its decision making, and informs that changes have been made to the Internal Rules of the Department of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, where it is intended to conduct a competition for Director of the Specialized Unit to be carried out by an independent recruitment agency. At the end of 2017, the European Commission sent a reasoned opinion stating that the Republic of Bulgaria failed to guarantee the independence of the specialized investigation unit by the infrastructure manager and failed to fulfil its obligations under art. 21 (1) of Directive 2004/49/EC and that sufficient resources are not guaranteed for the investigating authority to perform its functions independently. At the end of 2018, the European Commission decided to file an application before the Court of Justice of the European Union, resulting in Case C-33/19. In the request, the European Commission noted in the first place that the accident investigation unit is not independent of the infrastructure manager, the National Railway Infrastructure Company, as the Minister of Transport, on the one hand, exercises control over the National Railway Infrastructure Company and, on the other hand, the investigating unit is part of the Ministry of Transport and does not have sufficient organisational independence and independence for decision-making. Secondly, the European Commission considers that the specialized unit is granted to the Minister of Transport and in the Bulgarian legislation there is no guarantee that the needs of the investigating authority in the event of a serious accident, which requires additional funds beyond the intended budget, will be adequately met. Mr. Zanchev stressed that the inclusion of the specialized investigation unit in the structure of the Ministry of Transport is a practice in a number of Member States, such as Austria, Romania, Spain, Latvia and the Republic of Slovenia. The importers explained that in order to prevent the risk for the Republic of Bulgaria to be convicted in Case C-33/19, changes to the WITP, ZBGV and KTC are proposed to be made by dropping the texts that the investigation unit is in the structure of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The legal changes will also prepare relevant acts of the Council of Ministers, which will provide: 1. The establishment of the National Commission for the Investigation of Accidents in Air, Water and Rail Transport as an autonomous legal person of the Council of Ministers, a secondary authorising officer with a budget to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications; 2. The adoption of the Rules of Procedure of the Administrative Structure; 3. Changing the Classifier of posts in the administration. The administrative, technical and financial services of the National Commission for the Investigation of Accidents in Air, Water and Rail Transport will be carried out by the Administration of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The board is intended to be managed by three members with the relevant qualification in air, water and rail transport and will consist only of investigators. The separate texts of the bill provide that, pending the entry into force of the Rules of Procedure, structure and organisation of the National Board for the Investigation of Accidents in Air, Water and Rail Transport, the functions and activities of investigating accidents in air, water and rail transport are to be carried out by the Directorate for the Investigation of Accidents in Air, Water and Rail in the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications under the current order, and that those initiated and unfinished until the entry into force of the Rules of Procedure, the structure and organisation of the National Board of Investigation of Accidents in Air, Water and Railways are to be completed in the current order. The bill proposes that the labour and service services with the employees of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications should be transferred to the National Board for the Investigation of Accidents in Air, Water and Rail Transport under the terms and conditions of art. Article 123 of the Labour Code and Article 123 of the Labour Code. 87a of the Civil Service Act and in accordance with the rules of procedure, structure and organisation of the National Board for the Investigation of Accidents in the Air, Water and Railway Structure and Staff. During the debates on the bill, the MPs spoke: Halil Letifov, Stanislav Ivanov, Dimitar Danchev and Nikolay Tishev, who requested further clarification on it. After the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 13 votes for the Council of Ministers and 7 votes abstentions proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending the Railway Law, No 902-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u119	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. A report from the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds has come in. The report will introduce us to Mr. Dragomir Stoynev. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Noise and lines.)]] Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u120	Dear Mr. Chairman, please bring order to the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u121	I don't know what you don't like about the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u122	I'm kidding, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Rail Transport Act, No 902-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 June 2019. At its regular meeting on 10 July 2019, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending the Rail Transport Act, No 902-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 June 2019. The bill was presented by Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The meeting was attended by Mr. Iliya Yordanov, State Expert at the Department of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The importers point out that the draft law amending the Railway Transport Act proposes amendments to the Railway Transport Act, the Civil Aviation Act and the Commercial Navigation Code with a view to taking measures required by the European Commission to ensure the independence of the Railway Accident and Incident Investigation Authority against the Infrastructure Operator and to fulfil the obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 21 (1) and (2) of Directive 2004/49/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 The draft aims to prevent the Republic of Bulgaria from being convicted in Case C-33/19, the European Commission against Bulgaria by fulfilling the obligations to introduce in the Bulgarian legislation the requirements laid down in the provision of art. 21 (1) and (2) of Directive 2004/49/EC, and the independence and financial security of the special investigation unit shall be ensured, as well as the introduction of the principle of shared services. Case C-33/19, the European Commission v Republic of Bulgaria, before the Court of Justice of the European Union has been initiated on the occasion of an application lodged in accordance with art. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In the subsequent discussion Mr. Ivan Ivanov a member of KEVKEF requested information about the reasons for the delay in the planned changes so as to arrive at a criminal procedure and whether an incident such as the one in the village of Hitrino in 2016 would have been avoided if the inspection provided for in the Bill was then working. Mr. Zanchev replied that the established independent unit of the Council of Ministers is functioning and at the moment, it has complete freedom to investigate incidents in infrastructure, railway, water and air transport and the case in the village of Hitrino is no exception. Mr. Dragomir Stoynev asked whether any further legislative changes guarantee that the requirements of the directive will be met, as the issue dates back to 2013 and the changes to date have not satisfied the European Commission. The Deputy Minister has assured that the changes will be final and will meet the requirements. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposed by 6 votes for the Council of Ministers and 1 vote abstention of the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending the Railways Act, No 902-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 June 2019. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u123	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, we proceed to the examination of the Draft Law amending the Railway Transport Act, No 902-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 June 2019. I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you are, Mr. Letifov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I just want to say that we will support the draft decision. We also had a long debate in the Commission, and before that, with the changes that were made on the establishment of this Bureau, it was then the Department of Investigation of Crashes in rail, air and shipping or maritime transport. We have had long discussions now whether this solves this pressing issue, which has, in fact, been for several years now, that Bulgaria as a country cannot decide and that it cannot guarantee this independent investigation body. This time we believe that by removing the Independent Bureau of Investigation or this so-called Board, the matter will be resolved. The European Commission will believe in the opinion and the decision of the Bulgarian National Assembly and will stop this criminal procedure or this case, which is filed as an application against the country. We will support the idea that, first of all, there will be no sanctions against our country. Secondly, we will ensure this independent investigation and convince our European partners that the investigation body is independent. This also guarantees us Great Zanchev, who was a representative of the Ministry, explicitly asked him and I look at him now convinced. With this idea, we support the decision to end the criminal procedure and, on the other hand, to ensure that it is an independent investigative body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u125	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Are there any lines? Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u126	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear President of the Commission, you have expressed such a clear belief that we have received enough evidence and arguments from Deputy Minister Zanchev that what has happened for six years will not happen. But I wasn't convinced of what... His answer wasn't so convincing! And I tell you what in the documents I read on this bill creates in me the concerns that we will not be able to deceive the European Commission again. This is the so-called shared service function. This shared service, which assigns functions from one administration to another administration, leads to the economic, financial and technical provision of the shared service to the Board being carried out through the control of the Ministry of Transport and Information Technology. Isn't that right, Mr. Zanchev? That's right. And it seems to me that again we will not be able to escape this hypothesis of penal procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u127	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Is there another line? I won't. Mr. Letifov, will you take a stand? You're entitled to the duvet, of course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u128	Dear colleagues! Mr. Ivanov, you remember that I shared your concerns with the Commission. I want to believe that Mr. Zanchev is right and I want to believe that we have done our job. I want to believe that this independence, which is envisaged in the Bill, is purely financial and will actually decide the independence of the institution itself as an investigation. I'm doing this with the hope that we're coming out of a situation where we're in a call-out procedure, and that's going to come out pretty salty. We had this debate. I believe that the assurances and the work that has been done and the communication that has been carried out and asked for it will give this result. However, the concerns you expressed, Mr. Ivanov, I have them too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-16.u129	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Are there any other statements? I can't see. In this House, we voted on this circumstance. We invited Mr. Zanchev to the hall. Do you wish, Mr. Deputy Minister, to take an attitude? No. If there are no other speeches, I shall close the debates on the bill. We are going to vote on a bill amending the Rail Transport Act, No 902-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 June 2019. Vote 156 MPs: for 114, against none, abstention 42. The proposal is adopted, and thus at first reading the Law on Railway Transport, No 902-01-33. Dear Members of Parliament, this concludes the agenda for today's extraordinary meeting. Regular session of parliament tomorrow at 9:00, 17 July The Commission We're adjourned.
