ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u1	Hey, guys, good morning! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Here you go, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal for a change on the agenda by proposing point five to become item three and to proceed to it immediately after the review of the Personal Data Protection Act has been completed.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u3	Please, voting mode. They voted 159 MPs: 132 against 1, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I'm going to make a procedure on the agenda. On the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose to include it in the weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly the following item: Second vote of the Draft Law amending the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. He was introduced by the MPs Mihail Hristov and Krum Zarkov on 3 October 2018. He was accepted on the first vote on 13 December 2018, suggesting to become the fourth in the Programme and the remaining points to be renumbered. Please, voting mode. Vote 162 MPs: 152, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Communication: On 22 January 2019, the Law amending and supplementing the Railway Transport Act was adopted. He was brought in by the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Moving on to: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We continue with the Report for the Second Reading of the Personal Data Protection Act. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 69, which shall become § 88. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 70, which shall become § 89: ........... 89................................................................... In the Law on limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11, para. 3 the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier'. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 5 the word "supplied" is replaced by "supplied." The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 71, which shall become § 90: .............................................................................. In the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the Conduct of Sports Events (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 7 the words with the Law and the Law shall be replaced by the words with the requirements of the Law and shall be replaced by the 2. The Annex to art. 13, para. 3 the words of the Law and the provisions of the Law shall be replaced by the words of the Law and shall be replaced by the words of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 72, which shall become § 91: .............................................................................. In the Law on the Protection of the Environment (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20, para. 1, t. 4 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 112, para. 5 the words "the Personal Data Protection Act' shall be replaced by "the Personal Data Protection Officers' and "the Personal Data Protection Officers' and "the Personal Data Protection Officers' shall be replaced by "the Personal Data Protection Officers' and shall be replaced The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 73, which shall become § 92. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 74, which shall become § 93: ..... 93......................................................................... In the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 4 the word "supplied" is replaced by "supplied." 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 177, para. 1 words under the Personal Data Protection Act The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 75, which shall become § 94. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 76, which shall become § 95. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 77, which shall become § 96. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 78, which shall become § 97. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 79, which shall become § 98. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 80, which shall become § 99. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 81, which shall become § 100. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 82, which shall become § 101. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 83, which shall become § 102. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 84, which shall become § 103: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, Dentists and Assistant Pharmacists (prom, SG No. ...) in art. 37, para. 5 the words of the Law and the Law shall be replaced by the words of the Law and shall be replaced by the words of the Law and shall be replaced by the words of the Law and shall be replaced by the words of the Law and shall be replaced by the words of the Law and shall be replaced by the words of the Law and shall be replaced by the words of the Law and shall be replaced by the words of the Law and shall be replaced by the words of the Law and shall be replaced by the words of the Law and shall be replaced by the words of the Law and The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 85, which shall become § 104. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 86, which shall become § 105. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 87, which becomes § 106: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Law on the Commercial Register and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 2, para. 2 the words "the Personal Data Protection Act" shall be replaced by "Art." 4 t. 1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation), (OJ L 119/1 of 4 May 2016).) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u5	Are there any speeches? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the text of the importer of § 69 which becomes § 88; the version of § 70 which becomes § 89; § 71, which becomes § 90; § 72, which becomes § 91 of the Commission Report; § 73, which becomes § 92 of the importer; the version of § 74, which becomes § 93, supported by the Commission; the paragraphs of the importer 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, which respectively becomes paragraphs 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, supported by the Commission; the editorial amendment of § 84, which becomes § 103 of the Commission Report; the texts of the importer of § 85, which becomes § 104; § 86 by importer, which becomes § 105, supported by the Commission, and the amendment of § 87, which becomes § 106 of the Commission Report. Vote 141 MPs: for 136, no against, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u6	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 88, which shall become § 107. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 89, which shall become § 108. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 90, which shall become § 109. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 91, which shall become § 110: ........................................................... In the Law on Private Security Activities (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11, para. 2 the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier'. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22, para. 2 the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier'. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24, para. 2 the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier'. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53, p. 4 words without registration under the Law on the Protection of Personal Data are replaced by in violation of the requirements for the protection of personal data. 5. In § 1, t. 3 of the additional provisions are replaced by the requirements for the protection of personal data and of the provisions and the words for the protection of personal data. 2, para. 2 of the Personal Data Protection Act 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation), (OJ L 119/1 of 4 May 2016).) (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 92, which shall become § 111: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26 is created. 4a: 4a. conclude or authorise an official to conclude agreements and administrative arrangements with authorities of other countries or international organisations concerning the protection of personal data in connection with the pursuit of international activities under point (c) of Article 1. 4; (d) 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 2 words within the meaning of the Personal Data Protection Act shall be deleted; (b) in para. 9 words under the terms and conditions of the Personal Data Protection Act The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 93, which shall become § 112: .......... 112.................... 112................................................... In the Law on Employment Promotion (prom., SG No. ...) in Annex 1 to art. 74g, para. 1 in row 6 the words... Identification number of the certificate of entry in the register under art. 10, para. 1, t. 2 WFD: The Commission proposes to create § 113 " 119: ................. 113............................................................ In the Law on the administrative regulation of economic activities related to oil and petroleum products (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 4, para. 1, t. 7 the words under the Personal Data Protection Act are replaced by the requirements for their protection. § 114. In the Law on the Execution of Punishment and Incarceration (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 271, para. 3 the words in the order of the Law and the Law shall be replaced by the words in compliance with the requirements. § 115. In the Law for Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forestry Equipment (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 7, para. 3 the words of the Law shall be deleted. § 116. In the Law on Special Intelligence (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 19d, para. 3 words within the meaning of the Personal Data Protection Act shall be deleted. § 117. In the Law on Physical Education and Sports (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 142, p. 4 the words "the Personal Data Protection Act' shall be replaced by "the protection claims'. § 118. In the Law on Enterprises of Social and Solidar Economy (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 10 para. 5 the words of the Law shall be deleted. § 119. In the Law on the compulsory deposit of printed and other works and for the announcement of distributors and providers of media services (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 7c, para. The first sentence of the sentence is replaced by the following: The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 94, which shall become § 120: ............................................................................. Within one year of the entry into force of this Act, the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data shall adopt the regulations under art. 14, para. 5 and 6 and under art. 14a, para. 3. The Commission proposes to establish § 121: .............................................................................. Within two months of the entry into force of this Act, the Rules of Procedure under art. 55, para. 8 of the Law on the Judiciary is brought into line with this law. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 95 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u7	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission for paragraphs 88, 89 and 90, which shall become paragraphs 107, 108 and 109; the version of paragraphs 91, 92 and 93 which shall become paragraphs 110, 111 and 112 of the Commission Report; the proposal to create new paragraphs 113 to 119 including; the version of § 94, which shall become § 120 of the Commission Report; the creation of a new § 121 and the rejection of § 95. 140 MPs voted: 133, none, abstention 7. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u8	Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov: In the Transitional and Final Provisions, § 96 is created: ...... 96........................................................................ Paragraph 30, t. 4 shall enter into force as from 1 March 2019 The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u9	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Danail Kirilov. They voted 112 MPs: 19 against 5, abstention 88. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u10	The Commission proposes to establish § 122: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) Paragraph 49, t. 1 shall enter into force on 1 March 2019. (2) Paragraph 118 shall enter into force from 2 May 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u11	Please vote on the creation of a new § 122. 125 MPs voted: 119, none, abstention 6. The proposal is adopted, and with this the entire Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to thank the working group that has been working for four months. There was an absolute, complete political consensus at the last meeting of the Internal Commission when we watched the Report at second reading. I would especially like to thank the Commission for the protection of personal data, because they have been engaged in this process all along. I would like to thank all the NGOs that participated. Since yesterday's meeting, we already have thank-you letters from these NGOs. We protected both their interests and Bulgarian citizens. Thank you, everyone. This may be one of the few laws? All the political formations represented in the Bulgarian Parliament voted unanimously all the texts without having absolutely no objections. I thank all my colleagues, including the opposition, for their constructive work. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Colleagues, let's move on to the next item: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR LEGISLATIONS. Dr. Daritkova will present the report. Here you go, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending the Law on Medical Institutions, No 802-01-54, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 November 2018. At its regular meeting on 13 December 2018, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a bill amending the Law on Medical Institutions, No 802-01-54, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 November 2018. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Health Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Health and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Rector of Sofia University. Prof. Kliment Ohridski Anastas Gerdzhikov, Director of the University Hospital "Lozenets" (Professor Dr. Lyubomir Spasov), representatives of the word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by the Minister of Health Mr. Kiril Ananiev, who informed the MPs that with the proposed annulment of § 5 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Medical Institutions (HPA) it will be possible for the government to make decisions regarding the status of the hospital. The current provision of § 5 defines Lozenets Hospital as a medical establishment of the Council of Ministers within the meaning of art. 5, para. 1 of the ZLZ and the Director of Lozenets Hospital for a secondary officer with a budget of the Council of Ministers. The repeal of this provision will create a legal opportunity by an act of the Council of Ministers for this hospital to be converted into the first multi-profile hospital for hospital care providing complex treatment for children. Minister Ananiev stressed that care for the health of children is an investment in future healthy generations, and efforts to improve health services should be aimed at providing better access and timely guidance to the necessary type of diagnosis and treatment, as well as complex and interdisciplinary medical services for children with chronic diseases, and implementation in practice of established standards for diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation in children's diseases. In this regard, it is particularly necessary to build a single structure to provide complex medical services for children and to bring together all specialists working with children for the sake of their health. The Republic of Bulgaria is the only European country that does not have a multi-profile pediatric hospital in which emergency and highly specialised pediatric aid services, intensive treatment of children, complex services to children with congenital abnormalities, chronic diseases, disabilities and other severe diseases, as well as services for long-term treatment, rehabilitation and palliative care. Minister Ananiev categorically said that the study and clinical basis of the Faculty of Medicine at Sofia University at Lozenets Hospital will be maintained. The teachers will retain their academic positions, and the diplomas of all students present and future will be fully valid and applicable, similar to all medical students on the territory of the country in other higher medical schools. He added that the current accreditation, even after the transformation of the medical establishment by infusion at the new national multi-profile children's hospital, will be maintained until its expiry date. According to him, there is no legal obstacle for doctors from a university hospital to be lecturers at various higher education institutions, as well as there is no legal prohibition for a university hospital to be a basis for teaching students at more than one university. It was noted that the current clinical basis of the students is except in the hospital "Lozenets" and in four other medical institutions two private and two state institutions, and there is no obstacle to the clinical bases being extended to the teaching staff of the Medical Faculty of Sofia University if they switch to other university hospitals for hospital care. In conclusion, Minister Ananiev pointed out that the construction of a multi-profile children's hospital is in line with the government's commitments to improve access and increase the quality of medical assistance, as well as to create conditions for complex medical care for children with disabilities and chronic diseases, and presented concrete measures that will ensure stability and security both among the staff and patients of the medical institution and the students of the Medical Faculty with a clinical base at Lozenets Hospital. The Rector of Sofia University "St. Prof. Anastas Gerdzhikov informed the MPs that the proposed amendment to the Law on Medical Institutions threatens the existence of the Medical Faculty at the University, as Lozenets Hospital is a medical and clinical basis of the Faculty. He explained that accreditation was obtained on the basis of this material and technical base and academic staff, which is almost entirely on a basic contract to the hospital. During the transformation of Lozenets Hospital, 17 of the existing 18 clinics/compartments will be closed in a national children's hospital, and no more than 20 of the current academic staff will remain. In the absence of a material and technical base and legally defined academic composition, the Faculty of Medicine will not be able to continue to function and the accreditation obtained for student training can be withdrawn from the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency. At the same time, the question remains unknown as to who will be university hospitals that could possibly replace Lozenets Hospital as a medical school-clinical base and what will happen to teachers and equipment that are not related to activities in the field of pediatrics. In conclusion, Professor Gerdzhikov emphasized that while there is no clear vision for the restructuring of the hospital and respectively the consequences for the Medical Faculty, careful consideration should be given to the adoption of the proposed legislative solution. The opinion of the Bulgarian Pediatric Association was presented by Professor Vladimir Pilosoff, who expressed gratitude to the management of the Ministry of Health that for the first time the state took real action to create a multiprofile hospital for children. He stressed that a very serious and thorough analysis of the facilities of Lozenets Hospital should be made on the basis of which to make a real assessment as to whether this base meets the necessary structure of a modern children's hospital, which should be a centre for the development of children's health care in Bulgaria and can actually provide complex medical care to children. The representatives of the patient and non-governmental organizations expressed support for the establishment of a multi-profile hospital for hospital care for children, as this is the only way to provide complete, complex and high-quality medical care to the Bulgarian children. Attention was paid to the fact that Lozenets Hospital was recently evaluated by specialists from Hanover as the only and best center with potential and unprecedented equipment for the entire region of Central and Eastern Europe to perform lung transplants, as well as to track patients after pulmonary transplantation. A concern was expressed that the restructuring of the hospital could endanger the functioning and development of this transplant centre, which is unique in Bulgaria. During the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health unanimously supported the need to establish a multi-profile hospital for hospital care for children, which will contribute to improving access and improving the quality of medical care in the field of pediatrics, as well as to providing complex medical services to Bulgarian children. At the same time, some of the MPs pointed out that there was no clear vision with a specific action plan and the corresponding financial justification for the realization of the presented idea and expressed concern about the future of the academic staff and students of the Faculty of Medicine at Sofia University, as well as the team of highly qualified medical specialists of the hospital, which has been established for years. A proposal was made to consider the possibility for Lozenets Hospital to be preserved as a structure and clinical basis of the Medical Faculty and its status to be defined as a university hospital at Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski. On the basis of the discussion and the vote taken on the following results:.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u15	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Following the meeting of the Committee on Health, at which we did not agree due to equality of votes, discussions and consultations with a new decision were supplemented. I would like to stress that the bill we are proposing has one single paragraph, and it concerns the cancellation of the functioning of Lozenets hospital as a hospital of the Council of Ministers. The reasons were based on an intention that had nothing to do with the proposed legislative solution with the intention of building a multi-profile children's hospital. I ask the MPs for these two plotted legislative lines and management intentions to deal with them separately because it is very important that the Council of Ministers is able to get rid of the commitment to manage Lozenets Hospital because some facts about the state of the hospital say that it is not managed well. Although it is not a commercial company, there are significant accumulated debts, something that categorically refutes some claims that precisely because of the commercial nature of the medical establishments, they accumulate debts. It must be clear to everyone who knows the system that obligations are accumulated both from the way medical care is financed and from some inadequate management decisions, so it is very important that hospital management be competent. It is very important to make it clear that we Members of the National Assembly should not try to maintain our privileges, because this will by no means improve the rating of the National Assembly. This is exactly what I think is going on when protecting the stay of Lozenets Hospital in the system of state hospitals at the Council of Ministers. I believe that we should all have the rights of health-insured citizens, like all other Bulgarian citizens. At the same time, the presented facts about the fact that there are concerns about the functioning of the Medical Faculty, imposed subsequent meetings and we have stated the intention of the Rector of Sofia University Hospital to become a hospital at Sofia University following the example of Varna Medical University and St. Marina Hospital. In order for this to happen, the bill, which we present to your attention today, must be supported again, because only in this case can the Council of Ministers decide on the transfer of the hospital to Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski. I believe that this is the stated desire and intention and something that will calm everyone, because it will let the hospital function as it is now, keep the clinical bases, keep the academic staff, and this will definitely calm both students and lecturers, and the Faculty of Medicine, and Sofia University, that in no way would be jeopardised, although there was no such probability, the functioning of this institution. I believe that this bill should be supported and I count on your reasonable support. On the other hand, it was very important to me that the topic of the need to build a multi-profile children's hospital was raised, which, on the one hand, would allow for complex medical care for the children of Bulgaria. Something that really needs to happen is a dream of generations of Bulgarian pediatricians. On the other hand, a better modern solution should be sought to build such a hospital. I believe that this is the beginning of the realization of this idea, because such a hospital is necessary not only in order to be able to realize a place where children can receive all modern medical care, but it will also provide methodical assistance for the general improvement of pediatric assistance in the country, something which is extremely important in the context of demographic policy and the priority placing of children's healthcare at the centre of attention of all policies. I rely on the support of the Bill because it will enable these two different intentions to be realized. I repeat that it is an important step forward in order for the decisions requested to take place.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u17	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? Come in for a speech, Professor Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u18	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! We are listening to a proposed bill in plenary, but as often happens, we do not believe the words that are said but believe the deeds. What are the facts? The draft concerns only one single point - the annulment of one member of the "Transitional provisions" - which concerns the existence of the Lozenets Hospital as the only one that exists with a parliamentary decision and has no addition. We believe that this is a misunderstanding of the decision, because when we take away from the House of the National Assembly, we have to say, where does it go, who is its principal? For us, the principal of this hospital must become the Ministry of Health. We would therefore support such a decision if it were very specific and what we want to do with this hospital, which we are taking away from the National Assembly. Yes, we agree that the MPs do not need to have additional rights in terms of their healthcare, but we need to know what is going on with this hospital and its collective, unfortunately, that is not clear. In the Commission, we have had a rather long dispute and ultimately it does not support this bill. On top of that, there is still the opinion that we are changing the status of the hospital so that we can transform it into a national pediatric hospital. Yes, I agree with Dr Daritkova, who said Bulgaria needs a national pediatric hospital. Yes, but it cannot be created on today's basis of Government Hospital simply because a hospital that has 120 beds cannot become a hospital for 400 beds, as are the requirements for a pediatric hospital. There is no public transport there, and mothers with carts cannot get to this hospital by public transport and many, many other things. Today we will abstain from voting on the Bill. If we see between first and second reading that this hospital is willing to continue to exist as a normal hospital in the country, as a multi-profile hospital for the needs of Bulgarian citizens and this is reflected in a proposal made between first and second readings, we will reconsider our decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u19	Thank you, Professor Yordanov. Do you have any lines? I won't. Mr. Minister, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As a member of the government, I support his decision not to have a hospital that creates special privileges and special conditions for treating the political class and certain civil servants who hold high positions in the public administration. The state has invested hundreds of millions of leva in this hospital for equipment, material base, repairs and all this should be used by the entire Bulgarian people. As you said, Associate Professor Yordanov, a serious discussion was held regarding the future of this hospital in the context of the motives that the government had stated. In addition to the talks that were held in the Committee on Health, I also had talks with the academic management of Sofia University, with the lecturers, with the hospital workers, with the students studying at the Medical Faculty of Sofia University, with a number of other organizations, including patients. I was convinced that indeed this hospital, given its historical development, its scientific potential and training bases, should pass as a university hospital at Sofia University. The commercial nature of this hospital will enable her to treat citizens from all over the country with a different professional and health status, which enables students to improve the quality of their education in this faculty. Therefore, we are giving up the reasons to use the hospital as the basis for creating a children's hospital and we are ready to become a university hospital at Sofia University. Of course, you have noted, in fact, that what is written as the only paragraph in the Bill is not enough. Between first and second readings, texts will be proposed to show technologically how this hospital by a secondary director of the budget of the Council of Ministers will become a commercial company and hence a university hospital at Sofia University. I, as Minister of Health, make the commitment that the conditions, rules and principles under which this medical establishment will operate should be the same in which the other medical establishments, which are state owned, are to provide high quality treatment and, at the same time, training students at European and global level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u21	Thank you, dear Minister. Any further comments? Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! I think that in the discussion on this bill we are shifting from the main topic with which it was proposed as the Law on Medical Institutions. The main thesis of this law, let everyone outside the hall know it, was that this hospital should become a national multi-profile children's hospital for the treatment of Bulgarian children.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u23	It's not in the Law, it's in the motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u24	This was the idea that you quoted in your speech. Dr. Daritkova, we are not going to make a dialogue with you about what Mr. Ananiev said. In the course of the discussion it turned out that many things had to be reconsidered. The chairman of the Pediatric Association also said that it is not clear whether this hospital can become a base for a university or a national multiprofile children's hospital. I am now asking myself: this proposal, as my colleague Yordanov said, we do not see anything in it that is special...... the hospital to acquire status like all other hospitals in the country. I ask all of you: what are we going to do with our main idea that was put here before New Year's Eve by a group of pediatricians, which was like hugged by all of us? Let's think between first and second readings, which will be the multi-profile national hospital, how we will create it, and not constantly in the public space to come up with ideas that are seriously questionable, not to say that they are untenable and create only tensions in the nation to solve a problem that is extremely important. I can tell you as a pediatrician that my whole life has literally passed in anticipation of this hospital being built. I'm at the end of my career. I've got 10 years left. For 30 years, the hospital still doesn't exist on the territory of the country. I therefore call on all of you, as well as the Committee on Health, between first and second readings, not to concentrate on this. There is another precedent here, Mr. Minister. Here is already a second proposal as an exception for individual hospitals in the country to attach themselves to individual universities. I ask: the mother of all university hospitals, why not become owned by the Medical University in Sofia? This can be done for Varna University, this will now be done for Sofia University. Alexandrovska Hospital remains, as all other university hospitals are too many. These are issues that need to be resolved between first and second readings. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u25	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. - What's the line? I can't see. A statement. Docent Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u26	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! Today, we have a very clear bill, which I think we all need to support here, namely it concerns one single thing. All other statements, statements here, in my opinion, are not the subject of today's bill. The thing that we have to say clearly in front of everyone is that the base of Lozenets, as is led by the Government Hospital, will simply no longer be at the Council of Ministers, i.e. it is coming out of art. That's the most important thing. Secondly, in order for us to be able to make a move on the future of this hospital, we must give the Council of Ministers the opportunity, once we have taken this decision here, to enable this hospital to become respectively like all other hospitals, a multi-profile hospital and a university hospital, as it has the necessary status and meets the criteria. This is it, ladies and gentlemen, and I think that any other topics and opinions about pediatric hospitals are not subject to this bill. Yeah, they're not an object, we just need to read exactly what the Council of Ministers says. In fact, we are here to support and enable this hospital to no longer be in art. 5, I'm saying it's the third time, just to be a multi-profile university hospital. In order for this to happen, it goes through a decision of the National Assembly that is. And as for the possibilities of this hospital, as my esteemed minister said earlier, this hospital is a high-tech hospital. It has incredible equipment, the necessary specialists, so this hospital will continue to function. And in order for there to be no speculation, from now on, once this decision is taken, we will be able to make a decision further and, accordingly, the Council of Ministers for the future construction of a pediatric hospital. Since most of the people probably do not need to know that three attempts have been made in Bulgaria and buildings for pediatric multi-profile hospitals have been built and they have never finished with the operation of one. So, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we move forward to save our taxpayers time to vote, as the bill is precisely and clearly formulated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u27	Thank you, Associate Professor Ivanov. - What's the line? First line, Dr. Naydenova, then you, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u28	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! Dear colleague Ivanov, let me give you a line and I'm sure you'll agree. This is not about changing art. 5, which you quoted by mistake, I assume, in the Law on Medical Institutions. At the moment, in order not to mislead fellow Members of the National Assembly, we are talking about dropping § 5 from the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Medical Institutions. By maintaining the right to speak in this direction, I'm stopping the line here. I don't think there's gonna be any douche.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u29	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Professor Mikhailov, will you make a line? No. A hole? I won't. Any other speeches? Dr. Naydenova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u30	Thank you. I'm moving on to Minister Ananiev. It is true that we have abstained from the Commission because we have not received clarity on some of the following issues: Mr. Ananiev, we now understand that the management will have an idea to be at Sofia University, but whose property is then the land and buildings of the Government Hospital? And the land is not small! The second question is: will it be privatized? Is there a risk that this luft, which is derived from our vote today, could be privatized because this hospital, colleagues, is not included in the list of non-privatized privatizations under Annex 1 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act? It is, Minister, and you will agree. And the third, honourable Members of the National Assembly, the cause of our concern and reason for us to vote abstention is also ambiguity on something else. Now that we are voting, there is another decision to be made by the Council of Ministers to liquidate Lozenets hospital. I'm only talking about options. God forbid this happens, as there is a regulation on the terms and conditions for liquidation of medical establishments under art. 5, para. 1 of the Law on Medical Institutions, which is from 17 May 2013, and hardly, Minister, you will remember it. Here's the ordinance. [[shows the ordinance]] , unfortunately, since 2013 It's still in effect. It also allows the Council of Ministers to proceed to liquidation. Speaking of these options, I think everyone will understand why we are abstaining. Because, entering as a proposal for a change in § 5.. its annulment in the Law on Medical Institutions, we still have no proposal for what will happen and will anything happen in art. 5, para. One that my colleague says about. I think this is a next step that we should also cook and we are working on it. Thank you. PRESENT COLOR KARAYANCHEVA: Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u31	Mrs. President, Dr. Naydenova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dr. Naydenova, you have really asked some important questions that need to be regulated. This you will see from the first to second reading of the Bill, when exactly the technology of turning Lozenets Hospital into a commercial company and hence its transition as a university hospital to Sofia University will be defined. All of your concerns, which you say, will be presented to your attention as soon as next week to be convinced that you will make the right decision. The property of the hospital will be state-owned. Sofia University will be granted the right to manage the medical establishment and, respectively, the Medical Faculty of Sofia University, so that these concerns will be dropped very soon. Regarding Professor Mihaylov's question about the children's hospital, I want to be very responsible for telling you that her construction will begin this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u32	Thank you, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u33	Hole!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u34	There's no minister's doppelganger. [[Heckling]] Another statement? Personal explanation? Here's a personal explanation. [[Noise and lines. Awesome.]] Calm down!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u35	Don't abuse procedures!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u36	We do not abuse procedures, but since you mentioned my name, I think, Mr. Minister, that it should be very calm for the Health Committee to discuss other options besides being a trading company. This hospital can safely pass...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u37	Only the procedure is a personal explanation, Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u38	...but I also mean that it can go by art. 5, para. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u39	That was a statement of substance, not a personal explanation. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote the bill amending the Law on Medical Institutions with Importer The Council of Ministers on 22 November 2018. Vote 166 MPs: 110 against 3, abstention 53. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we move on to the next item on the agenda: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR BULGARIAN PERSONAL DOCUMENTS. He was introduced by the MPs Mihail Hristov and Krum Zarkov on 3 October 2018. He was adopted on the first vote on 13 December 2018. Please, Mr. Nunev, introduce us to the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I am making a procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly of the Deputy Minister of Interior Krasimir Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u41	Thank you. We are voting on the proposal for admission in the Chamber of Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov. 120 MPs voted: 118, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite Mr. Tzipov to the Chamber. Here you go, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u42	Report on the Draft Law amending the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 854-01-72, submitted by the MPs Mihail Hristov and Krum Zarkov on 3 October 2018, adopted at the first vote on 13 December 2018. The second vote. The Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents was amended by the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. According to § 1 there is a proposal made by the MPs Svetlana Angelova, Plamen Nunev and Julian Papashimov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51, para. 5 the words "up to 5 years" shall be replaced by "for the categories under para." 3 is up to 10 years and for the categories under para. 4 is up to 5 years "Transitional provision." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 and shall in it the word "before' shall be replaced by "do'.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u43	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the title of the Law, the text proposed in the Commission Report on § 1 in the version of the Commission, the name of the section They voted 127 MPs: for 127, against and abstention there is no. The proposal is adopted, and with this at second reading Draft Law amending the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 854-01-72, submitted by the MPs Mihail Hristov and Krum Zarkov on 3 October 2018. Let's continue with: The Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the ECONOMY COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATION. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism report will introduce us to the President of the Commission Mr. Kanev. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u44	♪ I can't believe under the Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, No 902-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2019. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 23 January 2019 discussed and discussed the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The meeting was attended by Ms. Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance, and Mrs. Margarita Ganeva, Director of the External Affairs Directorate at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The bill was presented by Mrs. Petrova. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed bill is to launch the process of Bulgaria's accession to the OECD. Within the framework of the work and budget programme of this organization for the period 2017 - 2018, the OECD will carry out a check for Bulgaria's accession to the Codes of the Organization for the Liberation of Capital Movements and Invisible Operations. The OECD Codes are an instrument for international cooperation to manage and liberalise capital flows. The OECD Codes currently apply in 36 OECD countries, including 12 G20 countries. They are the only multilateral agreement between countries dedicated to openness, transparency and mutual accountability of capital flows. The results of the OECD verification, in any form, are owned solely by the OECD. The organisation shall manage the funds in accordance with its financial regulations. The procedures for Bulgaria's accession to the OECD provide for eleven steps, and the whole process can take between 12 and 18 months, then a final invitation to join by the Council. This Agreement shall be ratified by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. According to the importer, the funds for the bill amounting to 230 thousand euros are provided under the budget of the Ministry of Finance. In the context of the discussion, the People's Representative Rumen Gechev raised a question about the results of the accession to the OECD of other countries. Following the conclusion of the discussion and the results vote: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, No 902-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u45	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance follows. Please come in and introduce us to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (ODA), No 902-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2019. At a regular meeting held on 17 January 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (CSR), No 902-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2019. The bill was presented by Mrs. Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (ODA) was signed on 10 December 2018 in Sofia and on 14 December 2018 in Paris. Free movement of capital, investment and services across national borders is an engine of economic growth, employment and development. Achievement of that freedom is a process requiring liberalisation at the same time as taking into account the economic and financial situation of each country and its development stage. In view of this, some 50 years ago, OECD countries created Codes for the liberalisation of capital movements covering direct investment and establishment and Codes for the liberalisation of ongoing invisible operations covering cross-border services. For this period of time, the OECD Codes have been established as an instrument for international cooperation for managing and liberalising capital markets. They also serve as a measure by which efforts to liberalise the countries applying them can be assessed over time and in relation to the development phase. Joining the Codes is part of the path of the Republic of Bulgaria to its full membership in OECD. To this end, our country is subject to a review and assessment in substance in terms of specific features, including the level of economic and financial development. This Agreement provides for the OECD to review and assess the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Codes, including the provision of technical assistance, and the process is expected to take place within 12 to 18 months after the entry into force of the Agreement. The activities that the OECD will carry out in favour of the Republic of Bulgaria, according to the draft agreement, are worth 230 thousand. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. Given the circumstances that the Agreement provides for financial obligations, arbitration settlement of possible disputes, and in view of a clause expressly providing for ratification, the same on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is subject to ratification by law of the National Assembly. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 21 votes for the draft, no objection and abstention. The Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (CSR), No 902-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. We are about to get acquainted with the Foreign Policy Committee report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u48	♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Foreign Policy on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, No 902-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2019. At a regular meeting held on 16 January 2019, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, which was signed on 10 December 2018 in Sofia and on 14 December 2018 in Paris. The reasons for the bill were presented by Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development is a foreign policy priority for the country. The Government of the Republic of Bulgaria confirmed its intention for enhanced cooperation with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, and by Decision No 789 of the Council of Ministers of 2017 established an Interdepartmental Coordination Mechanism under the candidacy of the Republic of Bulgaria for membership in the organization. With this agreement, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development is agreed to review and evaluate Bulgaria's accession to the Codes for liberalising the movements of capital and real operations. The process is planned to take place within 12 to 18 months after the entry into force of the Agreement. Joining the Codes is an integral part of Bulgaria's path to full membership in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. In addition, with Bulgaria's accession to the Codes, our country will benefit from the protection provided by the Codes against possible discrimination by other implementing countries, while strengthening its role and reputation as a responsible international factor. Under the Agreement, the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria undertakes to provide 230 thousand. euros to finance the activities the Security and Cooperation Organisation will carry out in favour of the country. Payment should be made in full following the entry into force of this Agreement. The agreement provides for an arbitration settlement of possible disputes. In accordance with the provisions of art. 7 of the arbitration panel shall be elected by mutual agreement of the Organization for Security and Cooperation and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria or if such agreement has not been reached within three months of the request for arbitration, the arbitrator shall be appointed in accordance with the optional arbitration rules of the Permanent Arbitration Court. The Agreement shall be subject to ratification on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and shall enter into force from the day of the entry into force of the Law on ratification. In accordance with Article 9 of the Agreement, it may be amended or supplemented by mutual written agreement of the Parties. After a discussion the Committee on Foreign Policy voted and approved by 11 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and abstention, the proposal of the National Assembly to adopt at first reading a draft law for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, No 902-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u49	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. There are no reports from other committees. I'm opening the debate on the bill. To speak, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u50	Colleagues, I'll be very brief. Today's ratification and very different from everything we've done so far. The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development is one of the most powerful structures in the world with a budget of over half a billion dollars. This is an extension of the Marchal Plan since the end of World War II. Since 1961 it has been a new structure. It's called an Economic Cooperation and Development Policy. Only 36 countries are members of it. Bulgaria has been seeking to receive an invitation to join this organization for many years. The organisation deals mainly with expert opinions in all areas except defence and armed forces. Lithuania was last accepted. Of the former Eastern European countries, only Bulgaria, Romania and Croatia are not members. As late as it may be, I think that the first step has been taken and it is no coincidence that all three committees have unanimously proposed that this ratification go to two readings in one sitting. I am using this case for a few more words on the topic............................................................................................ From a brief reference that I made about a month ago, it turned out that last year the Bulgarian Parliament adopted 347 laws. Of these 162 were imported by the Council of Ministers, of which 42 are ratifications, i.e. the Bulgarian government has introduced 120 laws. Now pay attention: laws tabled by MPs " 185." We have almost a 40% increase in the laws tabled by the National Assembly in just one year. It is no coincidence after that that we wonder why we have problems with many of the laws that have not passed through the Council of Ministers. I only pay attention to the ruling coalition that this is not the way to rush things! Once again, I appeal to support the first step for Bulgaria's entry into this powerful structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u51	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Are there any lines? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will be brief. I would very much like to highlight a few of the benefits that have also been addressed by my fellow Member. Benefits of membership in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Membership in this organization for the Republic of Bulgaria is an international political priority of utmost importance. It will enable our country to have more effective dialogue and cooperation with the most developed countries in the world. At the same time, Bulgaria will establish itself as a proper international partner, will increase trust in our country and will make a positive contribution to our perception by investors and attracting foreign direct investment. The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, colleagues, is an international organisation that aims to cooperate and resolve common problems in the economic and social sphere, the environment, education, the labour market and others. Significant attention in its activities is given to analytical work, the fight against money laundering, tax evasion and corruption. One of the main missions of the Organization is to promote policies that will improve the well-being of the world. The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development provides a forum in which governments can work together, share experience and seek and find solutions, distribute good practices. The efforts of the Organisation are aimed at supporting new sources of growth through innovation, for which the Organisation analyzes and compares a wide range of data by country, which would also benefit our economy. The work of the Organisation shall be based on continuous monitoring of events in the Member States, as well as outside the Member States, and shall include regular short-term and medium-term forecasts for economic development. Currently, a total of 36 countries are members of the Organisation, of which 22 are from the European Union, I believe that 16 of the G20, which is indicative of the European Union's policy regarding the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, namely to encourage Member States outside and outside of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, to respect common standards and membership. In July 2018, Lithuania was accepted in the Organisation; Latvia and Estonia joined in 2016 and 2010 respectively. In this sense, membership for us would greatly help our way towards economic integration with the other Member States of the European Union, or rather speed it up, on the one hand, and foreign and political relations with the other members of the Organisation on the other. In addition, it is important to mention that respect for more principles and the implementation of relevant reforms in this direction must go hand in hand with our membership. This will have once again a positive effect for the business environment and companies in Bulgaria. Participating as a full member over time with the various committees and instruments of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, Bulgaria will be able to participate effectively in their review and in the formation of common policies. Our country will benefit from the entire set of instruments and the formation of cooperation not only in the field of in-depth economic analysis, concrete recommendations and collected expertise, but also through the exchange of good practices......................................................................................................................................................... Membership in the Organization will in practice mean recognition to our country that it respects and applies high international standards and will receive regular reports on the state of the economy and its development. Membership in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development will give us the necessary support for reforms and guidelines for the formation of economic policies that will help and lead to the country's accelerated economic development. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? There are no lines to the statement. Any other speeches? No requests. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, No 902-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2019. Vote 104 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 2. With this result of the first vote was adopted Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, No 902-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2019. Here you go, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 sentence third of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly "The term for written proposals on the bill for amendment of the Law on Medical Institutions, No 802-01-54, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 November 2018, shall be three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u55	Is there a reverse offer? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. Vote 96 MPs: 78, against 10, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point of our weekly program: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODECTION CODECTION CODEX.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, allow me first of all to make a procedural proposal for admission to the hall of Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance, and Elka Shongova, Chief Expert at the Department of Finance Regulation at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u57	Thank you. We are voting on a proposal for admission in this House. Vote 96 MPs: 89 against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the ladies to the hall. By the Second Voting Report of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 802-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 November 2018, adopted at the first vote on 13 December 2018, Dr. Ademov will introduce us. You have the floor, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Report on the first vote adopted on 13 December 2018. Draft amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 802-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 November 2018. "Improvement and supplement of the Social Security Code (prom., SG No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2009 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 120b the following amendments 1. In para. 1 after the words.. for the protection of............................................................................................... 2. A new para is being created. 3: The supervisory activity shall be carried out on the basis of a forward-looking risk-based approach. 3. They're creating an al. 4, 5 and 6: The supervisory review process shall include: 1. a review of the strategies, processes and reporting procedures that the supplementary social security company has established to comply with the requirements of this Code and its implementing acts; 2. evaluation of quality requirements for the management system; 3. an assessment of the risks to the company's activities for additional social security and the funds it manages; 4. an assessment of the company's ability to assess and manage these risks. (5) In carrying out a supervisory review and determining the minimum frequency and its scope, the Commission and the Vice-President of the Committee, responsible for the Management Board, shall take into account the circumstances under which the company for supplementary social security and the funds it manages and the size, nature, scale and complexity of their activities. The supervisory review shall also cover the activities of external contractors to which the company has entrusted certain activities. (6) The Commission and the Vice-President of the Commission shall use appropriate monitoring tools, including stress tests, which shall enable them to establish the financial situation of the company for additional social security and/or the funds it manages and to monitor what measures it takes to address the problems in case they are addressed. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 7 and is amended as follows: The Commission and the Vice-President of the Commission shall exercise their supervisory powers in a timely manner in accordance with the requirements of this Code and the Financial Supervision Commission Act in a manner proportionate to the size, nature, scale and complexity of the activities of the supplementary social security companies and the funds they manage. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Chapter 9, Section I is created art. 120d: ? Disclosure of information Art. 120 years. The Commission shall publish on its website: 1. the regulations, instructions, policies, practices and guidelines under art. 9, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 13, para. 1, t. 2 and 4 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act and the established forms of documents relating to the activities of supplementary social security; 2. information on the fact that the Republic of Bulgaria does not take advantage of the opportunities under art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.), hereinafter referred to as "Directive (EU) 2016/1741"; 3. information on the main purpose of supervisory activities, the main functions and activities of the Commission and the Vice-President of the Commission and the supervisory review under art. 120b, para. 4 and 5; 4. generalized statistics on the main aspects of the application of prudential provisions. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u59	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the reported proposals for the name of the Law, for a text of § 1 by importer in the version proposed by the Commission, a text of § 2 by importer in the version proposed by the Commission, and a proposal by the Commission for a text of § 3 and § 4 supporting the importer's proposal. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u60	Mr. President, allow me to make another procedural proposal for the admission to Diana Yordanova's Chamber of Finance Supervision Commission Vice-President and Milena Paunova from the Financial Supervision Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u61	We are voting on the motion for admission in this House. Vote 84 MPs: 79, none, abstention 5. Please invite the guests to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u62	According to § 5 there is a proposal from the MPs Svetlana Angelova and Galya Zhelyazkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 121e the following amendments 1. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: "Professional experience" within the meaning of para. 5, t. 2 is available where the person totals not less than 5 years is: 1. held a leadership position in: (a) a pension insurance company; (b) management company; (c) insurance; (d) re-insurer; (e) a bank; (f) another financial sector entity that manages assets that are proportionate to the assets managed by the pension fund; 2. holding a position in a management or control body of a non-financial sector entity whose assets are proportionate to the assets managed by the pension insurance company; 3. working in a management position in state institutions or other bodies governed by public law whose principal functions include the management or control of public or international public financial assets or the management, control or investment of funds created by a regulatory act, provided that its obligations were related to that activity of the institutions and entities concerned and the assets managed, controlled or invested by them are proportionate to the assets managed by the pension insurance company; 4. working in a leadership position in state institutions which operate in the field of social security and in finance or in supervision of them. 2. In para. 10: (a) c. 1 point (b) is amended as follows: (c) a document certifying the absence of a conviction under para. 5, t. 3.. for foreigner;................................................................................................................... (b) c. 2 point (b) is amended as follows: (b) a document certifying the absence of a conviction under para. 5, t. 3 for a foreigner; a foreigner; a foreigner; a foreigner; a foreigner; a foreigner; a foreigner; a foreigner; a foreigner; a foreigner; a foreigner; a 3. A new para is being created. 11 and 12: The circumstances under para. 5, t. 3 shall be established in a professional capacity where the applicant is a Bulgarian citizen. Where the applicant is not a Bulgarian citizen, the absence of a conviction shall be certified by a criminal record issued by the State to which the person is a national. Where that State does not issue a criminal record, it may be replaced by an equivalent document proving compliance with this requirement issued by a competent judicial or administrative authority in that country or in the Republic of Bulgaria. Where no equivalent document is issued, the person may submit an affidavit and in countries where such an official declaration is not provided for by the person to a competent judicial or administrative authority or notary in the country concerned. Such an authority or notary shall issue a certificate confirming the authenticity of the affidavit or the official declaration. (12) The documents attached to the application under para. 10, t. 1 letter (s) (i.e. point (b) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013) 2 (b) shall be issued not earlier than three months prior to their presentation. 4. So far, the Al. 11 becomes para. 13. 5. So far, the Al. 12 becomes para. 14 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 11 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 6. So far, the Al. 13 becomes para. 15 and in it in t. 3 words................................................................................. The following points are inserted after point 11 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 7. Previously on AMC's... 14, 15 and 16 become respectively. 16, 17 and 18. 8. So far, the Al. Seventeen becomes al. 19 and in it the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 15 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for the application of The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u63	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u64	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I allow myself to take the floor only and only congratulate our colleague Hassan Ademov on his birthday! He's safe. He's safe. On this birthday he has to perform here a very difficult task to read a very large bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u65	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. We join in congratulations in violation of the Rules, of course, because we are not on the subject. Happy birthday! Are there any statements on the reported texts? I won't. We are going to vote on § 5, supported in principle by the text of the Commission, the texts for paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 77, none, abstention 10. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u66	According to § 9 there is a proposal from the MPs Svetlana Angelova and Galya Zhelyazkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 4. (a) A new item shall be created. 7. "7." ensure that all payments are transferred to the fund within the normal time limits in the case of asset transactions of the supplementary pension fund; (b) To be created t. 8. It's 8 o'clock. ensure that the asset income is accounted for in determining the value of one share of the fund in accordance with the applicable arrangements; c) the current t. 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7. 9 and in it the words on the first working day shall be replaced by the end of the second working day. 2. A new para is being created. 5, 6 and 7: The guarantee bank shall verify whether the supplementary pension fund is the owner of the assets other than the financial instruments that are held on or in stock at the bank's guarantee bank's account. The verification shall be carried out on the basis of the documents submitted by the pension insurance company and on the basis of external evidence, where available. (6) In the performance of its duties, the guardian bank shall act honestly, correctly, professionally, independently and in the interest of insured persons and pensioners. (7) The guarantee bank shall not carry out activities with regard to the supplementary pension fund which may lead to a conflict of interest between it and the pension fund, the fund, the insured persons or the pensioners. 3. Previously on AMC's... 5 and 6 become respectively. Eight and nine. 4. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 10 and in it the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: 5. So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 11 and in it the words on the first working day shall be replaced by the end of the second working day and the words shall be replaced by the end of the second working day. 4 t. The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 May 2011 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, amending Implementing Regulation (EU) No 6. So far, the Al. 9 becomes para. 12. 7. So far, the Al. 10 becomes para. 13 and in it is created a sentence two: The award of activities to subcontractors does not relieve the bank-acquirer from liability. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, i.e. 3 the words can be replaced by the words can be replaced by the words can be replaced by the words can be replaced by the words can be replaced by the words can be replaced by the words can be replaced by the words The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123 el the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2 and 3: The risk management system shall cover in a manner proportionate to the size and internal organisation of the pension fund and the funds it manages and in accordance with the size, nature, scale and complexity of their activities, the risks that may arise in them or in the external contractors under art. 123i2, at least in the following areas: 1. formation of reserves; 2. management of assets and liabilities; 3. investment activity; 4. liquidity risk management; 5. management of concentration risk; 6. management of operational risk; 7. application of risk mitigation techniques; 8. the environmental, social and management risks associated with the investment portfolio of an additional voluntary pension fund under professional schemes and its management if they are provided for in the investment policy of the fund. (3) The risk management system shall address the biometric and investment risks and from the perspective of the insured persons and pensioners in the funds managed by the company. 2. Previously on AMC's... 2 and 3 become respectively. 4 and 5. 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 6 and in it in the text before t. 1 the words "including where the implementation of a part of it is entrusted under a contract of a third party' shall be deleted. 4. Previously on AMC's... 5 " 7" became respectively. 7... 9........................................................... 5. So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 10 and in it is created sentence two: 121d, para. 11 and 12 shall apply respectively. 6. So far, the Al. 9 becomes para. 11. 7. So far, the Al. 10 becomes para. 12 and in it the words "al." 3, 6 and 7' are replaced by "al'. 5, 8 and 9
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u67	Are there any statements on the reported texts? I can't see. We vote on the Commission's proposal for § 9, the import text for § 10, supported by the Commission, the Commission's proposal in favour of the importer's text for § 11 and the supported text for § 12 in the version of the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 91, none, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u68	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, as in para. 2, p. 5 the word "may" is replaced by "may" is replaced by "may." The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... Article 123h is amended as follows: "Requirements to the information provided Art. 123z. (1) The information provided by the pension insurance company in accordance with the requirements of this Code and its implementing acts to the persons to be provided in the supplementary pension fund, to the insured persons, pensioners, their heirs and the persons under art. 230, para. 3, p. 2? 4 and para. 4 t. 1, must: 1. is accurate; 2. shall be updated regularly; 3. is clearly written in unambiguous, precise and understandable language, avoiding the use of professional jargon and professional terminology if they can be replaced by generally understandable concepts; 4. it is not misleading and is distinguished by consistency in terms and content; 5. is presented in a way that is easy to read; 6. shall be provided in Bulgarian and, in the case of insurance under a professional scheme to which the labour and social legislation of another Member State is applicable, in the official language of that Member State, unless otherwise agreed with the person concerned; 7. is provided free of charge. (2) The information shall be provided to the persons under para. 1 by their choice by electronic means, including by e-mail, in a durable medium or via the pension insurance company's website, or in paper form. Where the person concerned has not made a choice on how to provide the information, it shall be provided in paper form. (3) In cases where electronic information is provided, the information shall also be provided on paper at the request of the person concerned. (4) The information shall be signed by an authorised employee of the company, respectively with a qualified electronic signature of the company, except for the information under art. 123z2, para. 1, t. 2, para. 7, p. 2, para. 8, 9 and 11, which shall be made available to the insured person signed on request.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u69	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. It's quite long next paragraph, let's vote on the one you just reported. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the text of Paragraph 13.. a proposal from the Commission in favour of the text of the importer. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u70	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15: § 15. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 123h1 "123h3": Information relating to the conclusion of a social security contract Art. 123z1. (1) The pension insurance company shall be obliged before the conclusion of an insurance contract to provide the opposite party with up-to-date information on the main characteristics of the fund and on its participation. (2) In the case of insurance under a professional scheme, the pension insurance company shall be obliged to provide the persons to be provided under the scheme prior to accession to it and, in the case of automatic accession, immediately after it, information on: 1. the names, uniform identification codes and headquarters and the address of the management of the pension insurance company and the supplementary voluntary pension fund under professional schemes; 2. the characteristics of the professional scheme, as well as the rights and obligations of the company, fund, insurance undertaking, insured persons, pensioners and their heirs; 3. the investment profile of the fund; 4. the nature of the financial risks to be borne by the insured persons and pensioners; 5. the absence of guarantees to achieve positive profitability and the preservation of the full amount of the funds imported; 6. the income achieved in investing the fund's funds for additional voluntary pension insurance under professional schemes for a period of 5 years or for the entire period of its existence where the fund has operated for a shorter period; 7. whether and how the investment of funds takes into account environmental, climate and social and corporate governance factors; 8. the structure of the costs borne by the insured persons and pensioners, including the fees and deductions collected by the pension insurance company; 9. the types of payments to which the insurance in the fund is entitled and the means of obtaining them; 10. ways to recalculate insurance payments; 11. the conditions under which the insured person may transfer the funds under his individual account or part thereof; 12. the name of the body supervising the activities of the pension insurance company and the supplementary voluntary pension fund under professional schemes; 13. where additional information can be obtained. Information provided to insured persons, pensioners, their heirs and persons under art. 230, para. 3, p. 2, 3 and 4 and para. 4 t. 1 Art. 123z2. (1) The pension insurance company shall be obliged to: 1. to introduce the insured persons and persons under art. 230, para. 3, p. 2, 3 and 4 and para. 4 t. 1 by the rules of the supplementary pension fund and with all its amendments and additions, and to provide them with a certified copy of it upon request; 2. send free to the insured persons by 31 May each year an extract from their individual accounts for the previous calendar year; 3. outside the case under point 3. 2 to enable each person insured in the fund to receive information on their individual account upon request; 4. to provide the insured persons with information on the actual yield achieved on their individual accounts upon request. (2) In the extract under para. 1, t. 2 any material change in the information compared to the previous year shall be clearly indicated. (3) The pension insurance company shall, upon request, issue to each insured person or pensioner a unique identifier providing it with electronic access to the data in its individual account and allowing it to make inquiries and follow up its insurance history. (4) The pension insurance company shall, upon request, provide within 7 days the insured person, the pensioner, respectively the successor of the insured person or the pensioner, a copy of an electronic document in his electronic file on paper or electronic means. (5) The pension insurance company shall be obliged to provide, upon request, by a person insured in an additional voluntary pension fund or an additional voluntary pension fund under professional schemes with contributions from a person under art. 230, para. 3, p. 2 or 3 or an insurance undertaking established under the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria within 7 days written information on: 1. the acquisition of rights over the funds of the individual account and the consequences thereof as a result of termination of the relationship with the person referred to in art. 230, para. 3, p. 2 or 3 or with the insurance undertaking; 2. the conditions governing the treatment of the funds of the individual account after the termination of the relationship under point 2. 1 such as, where withdrawal of funds prior to the acquisition of a pension right is permissible, the information shall include a written clause that the insured person should consider the possibility to seek consultation on the application of those pension funds. (6) The pension insurance company shall be obliged to provide, upon request, the heirs of a deceased insured person or pensioner with an additional voluntary pension fund or an additional voluntary pension fund under professional schemes within 7 days written information on their contribution from the individual account of the deceased and the conditions governing the treatment of those funds. (7) The pension insurance company shall be obliged to provide to the insured persons and pensioners by professional scheme other than the information under para. 1 suppose 6 and: 1. information on any change in the scheme resulting from amendments and amendments to the regulations, in the rules on the organisation and activity of the supplementary voluntary pension fund under professional schemes or in the collective agreement, respectively, within 7 days of the change; 2. upon request: (a) the information referred to in art. 123z1, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. (b) the annual financial statement and the annual report under art. 252, para. 2 for the scheme under which they are provided; (c) information under art. 251c on the investment policy of the fund for supplementary voluntary pension insurance by professional schemes and on the structure of the investment portfolio; information on the structure of the investment portfolio shall be provided in the form and content defined under art. 180. (8) The pension insurance company shall provide each insured person with an additional voluntary pension fund under professional schemes in due time before the age of art. 243, para. 4 and 6 or at the request of the person concerned, information on the types of payments to which he will acquire the right. (9) The pension insurance company shall annually inform pensioners of the professional scheme of their taking investment risk and how to recalculate their pensions. (10) When recalculating the pension, a decision is taken to reduce its amount, the pension insurance company shall notify the pensioner concerned under a professional scheme of the new amount of the pension payment at least three months before the decision is implemented. (11) In the event that the rules of the supplementary voluntary pension fund under professional schemes and the professional scheme allow for a change in the type of payment granted, the pension insurance company shall annually inform pensioners of that possibility, the amount of their funds and the types of payments that may be granted to them on the basis of them. (12) The samples of documents and information under para. 1, t. 2, 3 and 4 and the applicable method for calculating the yield under para. 1, t. 4 shall be determined by the Commission's regulation. Provision of information on insured persons and pensioners Art. 123z3. (1) The pension insurance company, insurance intermediaries and their authorised persons may not provide third parties with the information available to them for the insured persons, pensioners, their heirs and insurers, except for the cases provided for in law. (2) Pension insurance companies shall provide the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency with information on the paid/assigned to persons resident in another Member State of the European Union, income under art. 143z, para. 1, t. 4 of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code by 30 April of the year following the year of payment/payment of the income according to art. 73a, para. 2 of the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals. (3) The National Revenue Agency shall provide, up to the 10th of the month following each quarter, the relevant pension corporations and the Commission with information on the deceased insured persons and pensioners in the funds managed by the companies for additional compulsory pension insurance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u71	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. I was noted that before the reporting of § 15 I did not put to the vote § 14. That is why we will vote on the text reported by Mr Ademov for § 14 "He is in favour of the text of the rapporteur in the version of the Commission. Please vote on the Commission proposal for § 14. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Now back to the reported text for § 15. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the Commission proposal for § 15 in the version of the Commission in support of the importer's proposal. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u72	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, as in para. 2 and 6 the word "may" is replaced by "may." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u73	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the Commission proposal for the text of § 16 and the proposal of the importer for § 17 supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u74	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u75	Are there any speeches on the Commission's proposals for § 18 and 19? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 18 and 19 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. Texts proposed by the importer have been adopted for § 18 and 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u76	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u77	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 20 and 21 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u78	Proposal by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 185, para. 1 after the word "Annexes" shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u79	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 22. Vote 92 MPs: 81 against 2, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u80	Proposal from the MPs Svetlana Angelova and Galya Zhelyazkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 203 para. 2 is
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u81	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u82	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will begin my speech by saying that together with my colleague Zhelyazkova, with whom we made the proposal, we withdraw it, as well as the proposal made under art. 259, para. 2 in the Social Security Code, as they are similar proposals and concern the management of the costs of supplementary pension funds. I will make one point why we initially made such a proposal for dropping out of para. 2 of art. 203. Because in applying para. 2 of art. 203, when these texts were adopted in 2017, ambiguities arose in interpretation and contradictions, according to other regulations and international standards. That's why we suggested al. Two down. It is said that all costs for the management of supplementary pension funds are at the expense of the pension insurance company managing them, except for the costs of acquiring and selling assets. This is a text which, as I said, contradicts other legislative documents because, as a rule, the costs of carrying out a certain action are at the expense of the person carrying out the action itself, and the costs of an asset are for its owner. In that provision of para. 2 of art. 203 was introduced in 2017 an exception to this rule, providing that all pension fund management costs are at the expense of the pension insurance company managing them, with the exception of the cost of acquiring and selling assets. However, the funds also have other costs related to the servicing of a property, such as repairs, such as the cost of improvements and with this paragraph, which was adopted in 2017, this means that those costs that the owner of the asset, namely the pension fund, must bear them, the pension insurance company, which, as I said, is not correct and contrary to other legal documents and international standards. I withdraw this motion for annulment of para. 2, although it remains unclear, in the future the Financial Supervision Commission will make changes to this para. 2 of art. 203, so as not to interpret double this para. 2. In the same way, I withdraw my proposal later on under art. 259, para. 2 of the Social Security Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u84	Thank you, Madam President. After the withdrawal of this paragraph, of course, the following will be renumbered. Paragraph 22 as in the Commission report. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 22 which becomes § 24, in fact it will become § 23. Paragraph 23 of the Commission Report. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u85	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 22, which shall become § 23 and § 23, which shall become § 24. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u86	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u87	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the texts of the importer for § 24, which becomes § 25; the text of the importer for § 25, which becomes § 26, and the text of the importer for § 26, which becomes § 27. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u88	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 229c the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 in the sentence first, the words "with a insurance undertaking' shall be replaced by the words "for the management of a professional scheme of an insurance undertaking to which the labour and social legislation of another Member State applies' and the second sentence shall be deleted. 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: Within three months of receipt of the notification under para. 2 with all necessary information the Commission shall: 1. send the information contained therein to the competent supervisory authority in the host Member State and notify it without delay of the sending of the pension insurance company which submitted the notification; or 2. shall be delivered by a decision prohibiting the pension insurance company from entering into an insurance contract under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 3. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The Commission shall give a decision under para. 3, p. 2 where the pension insurance company is subject to forced administrative measures under art. 344, para. 2, p. 1, 5, 11, 12, 13, 16 and 17 or otherwise the administrative structure or financial situation of the company and/or the supplementary voluntary pension fund under professional schemes, or the good reputation, or the professional qualification or experience of the members of the management body of the pension company and/or the persons who manage and represent it are incompatible with the activity offered abroad. 4. A new para is being created. 5. If the information of the notification under para. 2 shall not be sent by the Commission to the competent supervisory authority of the host Member State within the period under para. 3, without a decision under para. 3, p. 2, the pension insurance company cannot enter into an insurance contract with the foreign insurance undertaking. The failure to send the information of the notification shall be subject to appeal within one month of the expiry of the period under para. 3 in the order of art. 13, para. 3 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act. 5. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 and in it the words the work and the work are deleted. 6. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7 and is amended as follows: The Pension Insurance Company may start managing the professional scheme as soon as the information under para is received. 6 and in the case of not receiving it after 6 weeks of receipt by the competent supervisory authority of the host Member State of the information under para. 3, p. 1. The company shall notify the Commission in case it starts managing the professional scheme and shall provide it periodically with information on its management, including, where applicable, evidence that the contributions have been made as planned and research on the ratio between assets and liabilities. 7. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 May 2011 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, amending Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of the 8. So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 9 and in it the words "insured persons, pensioners and other persons who have rights under the professional scheme" shall be replaced by the person to be provided under the professional scheme, insured persons, pensioners and other persons who have rights under the scheme. 9. So far, the Al. 9 becomes para. 10 and in it the words the work and the work are deleted. 10. So far, the Al. 10 becomes para. 11 and in it the words the work and the work are deleted. 11. So far, the Al. 11 becomes para. 12 and in it the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1. 12. So far, the Al. 12 becomes para. 13 and in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 11 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 12. 13. Previously on AMC's... 13 and 14 become respectively. 14 and 15. 14. So far, the Al. 15 becomes para. 16 and in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: The
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u89	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting in the version of the Commission for § 27, which becomes § 28. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u90	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28, which shall become § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 229d The following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: The foreign institution shall designate one or more depositories for the preservation of the assets of the professional scheme and the exercise of control in accordance with art. 34 and 35 of Directive (EU) 2016/2341. 2. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it the words "two months' shall be replaced by "6 weeks'; and everywhere the words "the work' and "the work' shall be deleted. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it the words the work and the work are deleted. 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5. ...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u91	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the wording in the version of the Commission for § 28, which becomes § 29. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u92	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 29, which shall become § 30: 30. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 229d1 - 229d3: The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. Art. 229d1. (1) A professional scheme or part thereof may be transferred from one to another fund for supplementary voluntary pension insurance under professional schemes under an agreement between the parties to the professional scheme on the basis of which a written contract is concluded between the pension insurance company representing the fund from which the scheme is transferred and the pension insurance company representing the fund to which the scheme or part thereof is transferred. (2) All rights and obligations relating to the scheme, the equivalent of those rights in cash and/or other assets and details of the individual accounts of the insured persons and pensioners under the scheme shall be transferred upon transfer of the entire professional scheme. Upon transfer of part of a professional scheme, all rights and obligations related to the provision of the insured persons and pensioners concerned, the equivalent of those rights in cash and/or other assets, as well as details of the individual accounts of the insured persons and pensioners concerned under the scheme shall be transferred. (3) The transfer shall be regulated in the agreement and in the contract under para. 1 and shall be carried out in a manner that ensures the preservation of the rights of insured persons and pensioners under the scheme and complies with their long-term interests. (4) The transfer agreement for a professional scheme or part thereof shall indicate the name of the fund to which the scheme is transferred and the name of the company representing it. When transferring part of a professional scheme, the agreement shall also specify the specific insured persons and pensioners whose individual accounts are transferred. (5) The transfer agreement of the professional scheme shall be approved by a simple majority of insured persons and a simple majority of pensioners under the scheme. The transfer agreement for part of the professional scheme shall be approved by a majority of two thirds of the insured persons whose individual accounts are transferred, two thirds of the insured persons whose insurance is not changed, two thirds of the pensioners whose individual accounts are transferred and two thirds of the pensioners whose accounts are retained in the fund in which the scheme is managed. (6) The contract between pension insurance companies managing the funds involved in the transfer shall indicate mandatory details of the professional scheme to be transferred, transferred assets, rights and obligations, as well as the way and time for their transfer and for the provision of data on individual accounts to insured persons and pensioners. When transferring part of a professional scheme, the contract shall indicate the specific insured persons and pensioners whose individual accounts are transferred and a description of the assets to be transferred in case assets other than cash are transferred. (7) In order to transfer a professional scheme or part thereof, prior authorisation from the Commission is required. (8) For obtaining permission under para. 7 shall be submitted by the pension insurance company representing the fund to which the scheme is transferred, stating: 1. the names of pension corporations and funds involved in the transfer; 2. the name, uniform identification code and address of the insurance undertaking; 3. information whether the entire professional scheme or part of it is transferred; 4. the main characteristics of the professional scheme; 5. a specific description of the transferred rights and obligations and the relevant assets that are transferred in connection with taking over the management of the scheme or part thereof. (9) Certified copies of: 1. the agreement between the parties to the professional scheme; 2. The approvals under para. 5; 3. the contract between the applicant and the pension insurance company representing the fund in which the scheme is managed. (10) The Commission shall decide within three months of receipt of the application on the basis of a proposal from the Vice-President of the Commission. The period referred to in the first sentence shall cease to run when additional documents or information are requested or instructions are given to remedy irregularities or discrepancies until the necessary documents have been submitted, respectively, until the deadline for their submission. (11) The Commission shall refuse to grant authorisation where: 1. the necessary documents have not been submitted or do not comply with the requirements laid down in this Code or contain incorrect data; 2. the requested additional documents or information are not provided; 3. the transfer does not retain in full the rights of insured persons or pensioners whose individual accounts are transferred; 4. the assets to be transferred are not sufficient or suitable for a comprehensive coverage of the rights and obligations relating to the scheme or the relevant part thereof; 5. the pension insurance company shall be subject to forced administrative measures under art. 344, para. 2, p. 1, 5, 11, 12, 13, 16 and 17; 6. the administrative structure or financial situation of the company and/or the supplementary voluntary pension fund under professional schemes, or the good reputation or professional qualification, or the experience of the members of the management body of the pension company and/or of the persons managing it and representing it shall be incompatible with the planned transfer; 7. the transfer endangers the long-term interests of the insured persons or pensioners in the fund from which the scheme is transferred to the fund to which the scheme is transferred, to the transferred scheme or to the transferred part of the scheme. (12) In the event of refusal, the pension insurance company may submit a new application for authorisation to transfer the same professional scheme or the relevant part thereof not earlier than 6 months from the entry into force of the Commission's refusal. (13) If within the term under para. 10 The Commission did not give a decision refusing to grant permission under para. 7, the transfer of the professional scheme or part thereof shall be considered authorised. (14) Where a professional scheme is transferred to or part of a foreign insurance undertaking, within 7 days of the authorisation under para. 7 The Commission shall send to the pension insurance company representing the fund to which the scheme is transferred, the provisions applicable to its management of the employment and social legislation of the other Member State, as well as any applicable provisions relating to disclosure of information. The provisions of art. 229c, para. 7 sentence one, para. 8? 14 and para. 16 shall apply accordingly. (15) Pension insurance companies may proceed to transfer the scheme or to the relevant part of it after the decision has been received by the Commission and in the cases under para. 13 After receiving the applicable provisions of the legislation of the other Member State. Where no decision has been received, the applicable provisions within the time limits laid down in para. 10 and para. 13, the transfer shall take place after their expiry. (16) The costs of transferring a professional scheme or part of it shall be borne by the pensioners and/or the insurance undertaking depending on what is agreed between them and shall not be borne by the funds for additional voluntary pension insurance under occupational schemes and insured persons and pensioners. (17) The pension insurance company managing the fund to which the scheme or the relevant part of it is transferred shall notify the Commission of the transfer within three working days of its implementation. A certified copy of the insurance contract concluded with the insurance undertaking shall be attached to the notification. The provisions of art. 229a, para. 3 and 4 shall apply accordingly. (18) Within 7 days of notification under para. 16 The committee on a proposal from the Vice-President of the Commission shall: 1. issue an order for registration in the Register of professional schemes of change in the management of the scheme, respectively for registration of the newly created scheme; 2. in the cases under para. 13 notify the transfer of the competent supervisory authority of the host Member State. Transfer to an additional voluntary pension fund under professional schemes of a scheme or part thereof managed by a foreign institution Art. 229d2. (1) A professional scheme or part thereof managed by a foreign institution may be transferred to an additional voluntary pension fund under professional schemes. The provisions of art. Each Member State shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of any changes to the provisions of this Regulation. 2 and 6 shall apply (2) The transfer of the professional scheme or part thereof shall be subject to prior approval by the insured persons, pensioners and the insurance undertaking in accordance with the requirements of the labour and social law of the Member State applicable to the management of the scheme. (3) In order to transfer the professional scheme or the relevant part thereof, prior authorisation shall be required by the Commission, which shall be granted after prior consent has been obtained by the competent supervisory authority at the headquarters of the foreign institution. (4) For authorisation, the pension insurance company shall submit an application stating: 1. the name, seat and address of the management, the single identification code of the pension insurance company and the relevant data on the foreign institution, as well as the name and the single identification code of the supplementary voluntary pension fund by professional schemes; 2. the name, identification code and address of the insurance undertaking; 3. information whether the entire professional scheme or part of it is transferred; 4. the main characteristics of the professional scheme; 5. a specific description of the transferred rights and obligations and the relevant assets that are transferred in connection with taking over the management of the scheme or part thereof; 6. the name of the Member State whose labour and social legislation is applicable to the management of the professional scheme. (5) The application shall be accompanied by certified copies of: 1. The approvals under para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. the contract between the pension insurance company and the foreign institution governing the terms of the transfer. (6) The Commission shall send the notification and the documents attached to it to the competent supervisory authority at the headquarters of the foreign institution immediately after receipt. (7) The Commission shall give a decision within three months of receipt of the application on the basis of a proposal from the Vice-President of the Commission. (8) The Commission shall refuse to grant prior authorisation where: 1. the necessary documents are not presented, they do not meet the requirements laid down in this Code or contain incorrect data; 2. the pension insurance company shall be subject to forced administrative measures under art. 344, para. 2, p. 1, 5, 11, 12, 13, 16 and 17; 3. the administrative structure or financial situation of the company and/or the supplementary voluntary pension fund under professional schemes or the good reputation or professional qualification or experience of the members of the management body of the pension company and/or of the persons managing it and representing it shall be incompatible with the planned transfer; 4. the transfer threatens the long-term interests of insured persons or pensioners in the fund in which the scheme is managed, in the fund in which the scheme will be managed, in the transferred scheme or in the transferred part of the scheme; 5. the assets to be transferred are not sufficient or suitable for a comprehensive coverage of the rights and obligations relating to the scheme or the relevant part thereof; 6. the competent supervisory authority of the headquarters of the foreign institution shall not agree with the transfer of the professional scheme or the relevant part thereof. (9) In the event of refusal, the pension insurance company may submit a new application for authorisation to transfer the same professional scheme or the relevant part thereof not earlier than 6 months from the entry into force of the Commission's refusal. (10) If within the period referred to in para. 7 The Commission did not give a decision refusing to grant permission under para. 3, the transfer of the professional scheme or part thereof shall be deemed approved. (11) The Commission shall notify the decision under para. 7 the competent supervisory authority at the headquarters of the foreign institution within 14 days of its delivery. Where legislation other than the Bulgarian one is applicable to the scheme, the competent supervisory authority of the foreign institution shall, within 4 weeks of notification, forward to the Commission the provisions of labour and social law and the provisions on disclosure of information applicable to the management of the scheme. (12) In the cases referred to in para. 10 The Commission shall send to the pension insurance company the provisions applicable to the management of the scheme of the employment and social legislation of the other Member State, as well as any applicable provisions relating to disclosure of information, within 7 days of receipt by the competent supervisory authority of the foreign institution. The provisions of art. 229c, para. 7 sentence one, para. 8? 14 and para. 16 shall apply accordingly. (13) The pension insurance company may start managing the professional scheme after obtaining the authorisation from the Commission. Where the pension insurance company has not received the decision within three months and seven weeks after the application under para. 4, the transfer may be made after the expiry of that period. (14) The transfer costs shall be borne by the pension insurance company, the foreign institution and/or the insurance undertaking depending on the arrangement between them and shall not be borne by the fund for additional voluntary pension insurance under professional schemes and the insured persons and pensioners therein. (15) The Pension Insurance Company shall notify the Commission of the transfer of the professional scheme or part thereof within three working days of its implementation. A certified copy of the insurance contract concluded with the insurance undertaking shall be attached to the notification. The provisions of art. 229a, para. 3 and 4 shall apply accordingly. (16) Within 7 days of notification, the committee on a proposal from the Vice-President of the Commission shall: 1. issue an order for the entry of the professional scheme in the register of professional schemes; 2. notify the transfer of the competent supervisory authority of the Member State whose labour and social legislation is applicable to the management of the scheme where that authority is different from the competent supervisory authority at the headquarters of the foreign institution. (17) In the event of disagreement with action or omission of the competent foreign institution supervisory authority, the Commission may request the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority to conduct non-binding mediation. The Commission shall participate in mediation proceedings and at the request of the competent supervisory authority at the headquarters of the foreign institution or at the initiative of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority. Transfer of the management of a professional scheme or part thereof of a foreign institution Art. 229d3. (1) A professional scheme or part thereof managed by a pension insurance company may be transferred to a foreign institution. The provisions of art. Each Member State shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of any changes to the provisions of this Regulation. 2 and 6 shall apply (2) Where Bulgarian labour and social legislation applies to the professional scheme, the provisions of art. 229d, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 Each Member State shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of any changes to the provisions of this Regulation. 3, 4 and 5. Where the labour and social legislation of another Member State applies to the scheme, its provisions on the procedure for approving the transfer by insured persons, pensioners and the insurance undertaking and on the requirements for the appointment of a depositary shall apply. (3) Within 8 weeks of receipt of the application submitted by the foreign institution to the competent supervisory authority of its registered office, the committee on a proposal from the Vice-President of the Commission shall decide by a decision giving or refusing to give prior consent to the transfer of the professional scheme or part thereof. (4) The Commission shall refuse to give consent to the transfer of the professional scheme or part thereof where: 1. the necessary documents are not provided, they do not contain all the necessary information or contain false data; 2. the long-term interests of insured persons or pensioners in the part of the scheme which will continue to be managed in the supplementary voluntary pension fund under professional schemes are threatened when a part of a professional scheme is transferred; 3. the transfer does not ensure the preservation in full of the rights of insured persons and pensioners under the professional scheme; 4. the assets to be transferred are not sufficient or suitable for a comprehensive coverage of the rights and obligations relating to the scheme or the relevant part thereof. (5) Within the term under para. 3 The Commission shall forward the decision to the competent supervisory authority at the headquarters of the foreign institution. (6) Where the labour and social legislation of a Member State other than the Member State in which the foreign institution is located applies to the professional scheme, the Commission shall, within 4 weeks of receipt of the decision of the competent supervisory authority of the Member State where the foreign institution is located, forward to it the provisions of labour and social law applicable to the scheme and the applicable provisions relating to disclosure of information. (7) The transfer costs shall be borne by the pension insurance company, the foreign institution and/or the insurance undertaking depending on the arrangement between them and shall not be borne by the fund for additional voluntary pension insurance under professional schemes and the insured persons and pensioners therein. (8) Where the provisions of the Bulgarian labour and social legislation apply to the management of the scheme, the provisions of art. 229d, para. 3 sentence 2 and para. 4 and 5. (9) The provision of art. In particular, the Commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u93	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. Honourable Members of Parliament, we are voting in the version of § 29 of the Commission Report, which becomes § 30. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We're about to take a 30-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u94	Here you are, dear Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u95	Thank you, Madam President. We are continuing with the Social Security Code (Secretary Code) for a second vote. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 30, which shall become § 31, according to the new numbering: ........................ 31...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 229e the following amendments and additions are made: 1. The title is amended as follows: "Provide information and cooperation." 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The Commission shall inform the European Commission and the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority in the event of significant difficulties in implementing Directive (EU) 2016/2341 and shall cooperate with them and with the competent authorities of the Member States in finding an appropriate solution. 3. The creation of para. 4. The Commission shall cooperate with the competent authorities of the Member States with a view to facilitating supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision, as well as with a view to the uniform application of Directive (EU) 2016/2341, through regular exchange of information and practical experience in order to develop best practices in the field of occupational insurance, non-competitive distortions and the creation of conditions for seamless cross-border membership.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u96	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the version of § 30 of the Commission Report, which becomes § 31. They voted 65 MPs: for 65, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u97	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 32. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 32, which becomes § 33, according to the new numbering.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u98	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 31, which becomes § 32, and the text of the importer for § 32, which becomes § 33. They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u99	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33, which shall become § 34. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 35.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u100	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 33, which becomes § 34, and § 34, which becomes § 35. 76 MPs voted: 76 against and abstention. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u101	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 36, in c. 2 the word "may' is replaced by "may'.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u102	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 35, which becomes § 36, with the editorial amendment made. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u103	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 37. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u104	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches on the paragraphs in question. We vote on the text of the importer for § 36, which becomes § 37, and § 37 of the Commission Report, which becomes § 38. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u105	Proposal by the MPs Svetlana Angelova and Galya Zhelyazkova to create a new paragraph. Madam President, I withdraw the proposal, as I did in my previous speech, with the relevant motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u106	Given that the following paragraphs must be renumbered.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u107	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 38 and proposes the following version of § 38, which becomes § 39, according to the new numbering: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 344 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 1 in the text before t. 1 the words "deceiving data" or the interests of the insured persons or of the pensioners are either replaced by "deceiving data," the interests of the insured persons or pensioners are threatened, or weaknesses or disadvantages have been identified as a result of the supervisory review. 2. In para. 2: (a) point 9 is amended as follows: Nine. oblige the company for additional social security to terminate its contractual relationship with a guarantee bank, with an investment firm, with an insurance intermediary or with a person under art. 123i2, if they do not comply with the requirements laid down in the Code or fulfil the obligations assigned to them by the Code or by its implementing acts; (b) c. 19 words.............................................................................. 121c, para. 4, 11 and 12 121c, para. 4............................................................................................ 3. Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: The Commission may, at the request of a supervisory authority of a Member State based on a foreign institution, prohibit an institution established in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria from carrying out an order of the institution concerning the assets deposited by the institution of the professional scheme. When the measure is applied to a bank trustee, the Commission shall immediately inform the Bulgarian National Bank.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u108	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 38 of the Commission Report, which becomes § 39. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u109	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become paragraph, according to the new numbering. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall be numbered according to the new numbering
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u110	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 39, which becomes § 40, and the text of the importer for § 40, which becomes § 41. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u111	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 41 and propose the following version of § 41, which shall become § 42, according to the new numbering: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 words.............................................................................. 121d, para. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. 121d, para. 17. The words................................................................................................ 123h, 135, 142a Art. 123h. Art. 123z1, art.123z2, art.123z3, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. Art. 135, Art. 142 a.m. 2. point 2 is amended as follows: "2." of art. 121e, para. Art. 3, Art. 122a, para. Art. 4, Art. 122nd, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 122k, Art. 123, para. Art. 1 and 4, Art. Article 123c, 123f, Art. 123e1, para. Art. 1, Art. 11, Art. Art. 123f2, Art. Art. 123g. 123th, para. Article 5 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965). Art. 123i1, Art. Art. 123i2, Art. 129, para. 1.. 8 and para. Art. 10 and 11, Art. 131, 139, 142, 169, 169a, 169b, 170, 175a, 176 177, 177a, 178, 179, 179a, art. 179b, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. Article 179c, Art. 180, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 180a, 180c, art. 181, para. Art. 1, art. 185, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. 186, 186a, 187, art. 187a, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 190, 192, art. 193, para. Art. 5, Art. 11, Art. 201, 202, 212, art. 213, para. Art. 1, Art. 6, Art. 229d, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. Each Member State shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of any changes to the provisions of this Regulation. 1.. 8 and para. Art. 15, Art. 17, Art. In particular, the Commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1... 3 and para. Art. 13, Art. 15, Art. In particular, the Commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Art. 7, Art. 234, para. 1.. 8 and 10.. 12........................................................................................ 241, 241a, 245, art. 246, para. Art. 1, Art. 6, Art. 249, 251a, 251c, 252, art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. Art. 1, art. 257, 258, 319, art. 325, para. Art. 2, Art. 332, 336, Art. 340, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. Art. 342, Art. Council Regulation (EC) No 1688/2001 of 22 December 1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 1688/2001 on the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulation (EEC) No 1088/98 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 96). Art. 3 and Art. 348, para. A fine of BGN 1500 to BGN 20 000 is punishable by a fine.;.................................................... 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 words.............................................................................. 121c, para. 1 six, par. 8th para. 10 " 14" shall be replaced by "chl." 121c, para. 1 six, par. 8, para. 10 and 14
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u112	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Ladies and gentlemen, are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the version of § 41, which becomes § 42. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u113	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 43 on the new numbering. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43, which shall become § 44 on the new numbering.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u114	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 42 by importer, which shall become § 43 and § 43 by importer, which shall become § 44. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u115	The Commission proposes to create a new § 47. Mr. Chairman, according to the new numbering will be § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law amending and supplementing the Code of Social Security (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In § 155, para. 3 words on the date of its entry into force shall be replaced by the words on 18 November 2018. 2. In § 156: (a) in para. 1 words.............................................................................. 121d, para. 11 and 12 shall be replaced by........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 121d, para. 13 and 14 and the (b) in para. 2 words.............................................................................. 121d, para. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous 3. Paragraph 157 is amended as follows: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. A pension insurance company which manages an supplementary pension fund which owns investment property on 18 November 2018 shall carry out the first comparison of the achieved profitability of these properties according to art. 180c, para. 1 and 2 as at 31 December 2023
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u116	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 45 with a text according to the Commission report. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u117	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the division. Under § 44, the Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 44, which shall become § 46 according to the new numbering. sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. By 17 May 2019 pension and guardian banks shall bring their activities into line with the requirements of this Act and its implementing acts. Proposal by the MPs Svetlana Angelova and Galya Zhelyazkova for the creation of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 47 according to the new numbering: ss ss s s s s s Pension insurance companies which are represented by prosecutors or whose management bodies participate in persons who have been authorised under art. 121d, para. 10 before the entry into force of this Law and which do not meet the requirements of art. 121d, para. 6 shall bring their governance and representation in accordance with the requirements of this law within three months of its entry into force.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u118	Thank you. Statements, coworkers? I won't. I will put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the division supported by the Commission and the Commission proposal to create a new § 47 with a text under the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u119	Before that, we have § 44, which becomes § 46 after "Transitional and final provisions."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u120	Yeah. The wording proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 44, which becomes § 46, and the creation of a new § 47 with a text on the Commission Report. 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u121	According to § 45 there is a proposal of the MPs Svetlana Angelova and Galya Zhelyazkova. The Commission supports the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position in § 47. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 45, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 47. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 46 which becomes...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u122	Forty-eight.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u123	...§ 48 according to the new numbering.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u124	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission proposal to reject the text of § 45 by importer and the text of the importer for § 46 supported by the Commission, which shall become § 48. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u125	Under § 47, there is a proposal from the MPs Svetlana Angelova and Galya Zhelyazkova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 47 which, according to the new numbering, becomes...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u126	Forty-nine.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u127	Yeah. Paragraph 49, if it's by the new numbering: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) Paragraph 22 shall enter into force from 1 January 2019. (2) Paragraph 47, with the exception of paragraph 47. 2, shall enter into force on 21 November 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u128	Thank you, dear...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u129	There's a new numbering.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u130	Yeah. I just want to say, Mr. Chairman, that § 47 has a new numbering.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u131	Forty-nine.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u132	Yeah. I don't know, we're not sure who it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u133	That's what I left, and we're going to § 49. I think...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u134	Two paragraphs have been dropped, and that's why it's § 45. The final texts will fix it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u135	Yeah, exactly. Okay. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of § 47 by importer, which shall become § 49. My fellow Members, with the vote on this paragraph, we are not finishing work yet. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that it be included in the weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly the following additional item.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990) and the Statute of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation (as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990).). It was introduced by the Council of Ministers, becoming the first point for tomorrow's meeting on 25 January 2019. An Appendix "The parliamentary control will begin immediately after the vote on the proposed item. Please, voting mode. Vote 95 MPs: 81, against 10, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am doing a procedure: on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to put to the second vote the Law adopted earlier today on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, submitted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u137	Thank you. A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Alexander Ivanov. Vote 95 MPs: 89, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA AND THE ECONOMIC COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATION. You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. THE LAW OF THE on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (ODA) A single member. He ratified the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (DCI), signed on 10 December 2018 in Sofia and on 14 December 2018 in Paris. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-24.u139	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the second vote the proposed bill. They voted 93 MPs: 91, none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted. I continue with parliamentary control announcements on 25 January 2019, Friday: 1. Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev will answer a question from the MP Georgi Gokov. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer a question from MP Christian Vigenin. 3. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer three questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov two questions, and Georgi Gokov. 4. Interior Minister Mladen Marinov will answer one question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Philip Popov. 5. The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer two questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, and Milko Nedyalkov. 6. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Zhelyo Boychev. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov on two issues by the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to three questions from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev and Anelia Klisarova, Kristian Vigenin and Nikolay Penev, and one question from the MPs Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev, Ivan Ibrishimov, Anelia Klisarova, Valentina Naydenova and Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova and to a question written by the National Representative Nadia Klisurska; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on three questions from the MPs Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Jeleva stwo questions, and Dora Yankova and Manol Genov; and one question from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev; and one question with a written answer from the MP Yavor Bojankov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov to a question with a written answer from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Manol Genov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov of a question with a written answer from the MPs Elena Yoncheva, Lyubomir Bonev and Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov of a question by the MPs Teodora Halacheva and Mikhail Hristov; - Culture Minister Boel Banov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov will not participate. Due to the use of sick leave, the Minister of Culture Boel Banov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Honourable Members, the next regular plenary session of 25 January, 9.00 a.m., according to the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
