ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u1	We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. I'll start with a message: The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria shall inform the National Assembly that in the execution of art. 63, p. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria The Council of Ministers has adopted a decision to authorise the dispatch and use of troops from the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria for the dissolution of a national intelligence cell in the Bulgarian military contingent involved in the operation of the stabilizing forces of NATO in Kosovo. This will allow for tasks of national interest to be carried out effectively and to a full extent. The notification, together with the Council of Ministers' implementing decision, was received on 5 September 2019 with entry No 902-00-30 and was submitted to the Defence Committee. We continue with the first point of the Work Programme for today: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR INVOLVATION AND CONVERSATION OF THE DIVERSE. Importer: People's Representative Alexander Sabanov. Here you are, dear Mrs. Belova, to present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please vote on the admission to the meeting of the National Assembly of Mr. Atanas Dobrev, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u3	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. Vote 156 MPs: 151 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite Deputy Minister Dobrev to the Chamber. Please continue with the presentation of the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u4	On 5 September 2019 the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333 on the conclusion of a Protocol on financial and technical cooperation between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on the participation of the Republic of Moldova in the implementation of the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Moldova in the implementation of the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Moldova in the implementation of the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Moldova in the implementation of the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Moldova on the participation of the Republic of Moldova in the implementation of the Schengen acquis on the participation of the Republic of Moldova in the The Law on the Hunting and Conservation of the Pollutants is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of the Pollutants. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u5	Statements? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. They voted 143 MPs: 143, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u6	Under § 1, there is a proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54 the following 1. In para. 1 sentence second is deleted; 2. A new para is being created. 5. In case of a complicated epizootic situation within the meaning of the Veterinary Activity Act, as part of the measures for the prevention, limitation and eradication of animal diseases, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, on a proposal from the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and/or the Executive Director of the Forest Executive Agency and in coordination with the Minister of Environment and Water, by order may: 1. restrict or prohibit the hunting of certain game species; 2. apply sanitary shooting of wild animals; 3. alters the time limits for hunting a wild boar; 4. authorises group hunting of wild boar in no more than three days, including Saturday and Sunday, of 7 consecutive days for one hunting area, and the hunting is carried out on a schedule established by the director of the respective state forestry or hunting holding. 3. Paragraph 12 is amended as follows: In case of overpopulation of predators, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall issue an order to regulate their numbers on a proposal from the Executive Director of the Forest Executive Agency and in coordination with the Minister of Environment and Water. 4. The creation of para. 13: The appeal of the order under para. 5 and 12 does not stop its execution.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u7	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 1. Vote 148 MPs: for 145, against none, abstention 3. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u8	'Concluding provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u9	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is to § 2, which states that the Law comes into force from the day of its promulgation, that is, immediately. There is a feeling of rapid reaction, of fire hazard. Immediately the Law must enter into force, can not even wait for these three days under the Law on Legislative Acts, the so-called Vocacio Legis, in order to get acquainted with the Law and it to enter into force normally. What's the rush? Why, once this National Assembly adopted a Law by which it entrusted the Minister with such powers, he gave them up, entered the African plague in Bulgaria and now we are in a hurry for this law to enter into force immediately? We support him. It is generally as good as texts, but not timely. Again, it is not known whether the Minister will issue this order this time. But even if he does, it's all as they say, after the rain, a hoodie. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Are there any lines? Any other speeches? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First, let it be clear to everyone that we are looking at a bill which has not been submitted by the Council of Ministers. That is, the Council of Ministers again transfers the ball to the National Assembly, and the National Assembly has absolutely no fault for the African plague. This is all the fault of the Ministry of Agriculture, because really two or three years ago it slept through this moment. What do I mean? For three or four years it was known that this African plague was coming towards the country. We didn't take any measures at all except to build a wire fence. Neither did we warn the farmers in Northern Bulgaria, nor did we forbid them to raise pigs, nor did we take any measures to have the necessary carers, nor did we prepare the country for this African plague, and when the chaos, the government, as always, runs into parliament and, through MPs, tries to solve the problem. This chaos has been created, this crisis...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u13	Dear Mr. Stoinev, please stick to the texts discussed at the moment!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u14	That's right. It is this crisis that has been created by the political party GERB, people need to know it, and they cannot find a solution to this issue. Now we offer 300 leva. On...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u15	Dear Mr. Stoinev, you are deviating.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u16	Wait, don't interrupt me, then you can make a remark.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u17	No, according to Art. 58 I am obliged to interrupt your speech. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u18	Why? Where are you going to interrupt my speech?!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u19	Please make an effort to get involved...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u20	How are you going to interrupt my speech? Then make a remark to me. I speak here on behalf of these people...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u21	I'm not making a comment, I'm bringing you back to the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u22	...which you slept through, which you let them kill their animals because there is tension in the country. This tension is precisely because of the incompetence of the government and of this National Assembly and people should know it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u24	Tell me what you have committed this particular plague... PRESENT EMIL CHRISTOV: Finish your speech, you are not on the topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u25	...to be like this and come to the country? [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off. Proclaims: "Eee!" by "BSP for Bulgaria".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u26	Mr. Stoinev, excuse me, but you have deviated considerably from the texts discussed. [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] I understand. Mr. Stoynev, please! I'll give you the floor. [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] Mr. Stoynev, please! [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] I understand that, but you're very far off. Do, fellow Members, refer to the Rules of Procedure. If I really follow the rules, I'm obliged to take the floor. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And it is not according to the penalty part, but according to art. 57.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u27	You can't take his word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u28	It creates unnecessary tension.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u29	Please! Mr. Stoinev, you may proceed. Pay attention to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u30	I have the right to speak, and I will speak on the Bill, which concerns precisely this fundamental problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u31	But I'm asking you by the lyrics. Okay, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u32	The lyrics. Why? Because, when the crisis is already a fact, we are making legislation fast, on the move, we are in a hurry for the bill to come into force. We agree and will support it, but these measures are not timely. These measures should have been taken two years ago. What's the rush? Because there is no consistent strategy because the state is governed in a way that every problem in the state becomes a crisis and this crisis is indeed due to the political party GERB. That's it! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Now, please, everyone, including you who protest, read the first paragraph of art. 57, because from now on, I'm going to be very firm on that.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u34	But apply it to everyone! [[(Radio in BSP for Bulgaria.) Replies from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u35	Take your seat. Are there any other statements? I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division and the version proposed by the Commission for § 2. Vote 149 MPs: for 145, not against, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted. Thank you, dear Mrs. Belova. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR DELEGATION AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CLEANNESS OF THE ATMOSFER AIR WITH INSTRUCTURING THE MINISTER'S COUNCIL. Report from the Committee on Environment and Water.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u36	Here you go, Dr. Grudev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Madam President, allow me first on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to propose that Mrs. Atanaska Nikolova be admitted to the Chamber and Mr. Georgi Mihailov, Deputy Minister of Environment and Water, and Mr. Georgi Mihailov, State Expert in the Department of Air Cleanliness.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u38	Thank you. We are voting on the procedural proposal for admission in this House. They voted 115 MPs: 111, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. Proceed with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on Air Cleanliness, No 902-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 July 2019. At a regular meeting held on 5 September 2019, the Committee on Environment and Waters examined at first reading a bill amending and supplementing the Act on Air Cleanliness, No 902-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 July 2019. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Environment and Water.. Mrs. Atanaska Nikolova, Deputy Minister, and Mr. Ivan Angelov, Director of the Department of Air Cleanliness. On behalf of the importer, the bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by Deputy Minister Atanaska Nikolova. She explained that the bill aims to implement approved measures for changing the model of administrative services in Bulgaria in the legislation on air cleanliness. Part of the measures are related to simplifying and bringing business services into line with the Law on limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business. Changes shall lay down rules for the issue of an exemption decision from the obligation to comply with non-organised emissions standards and the setting of new non-organised emissions standards. Installation operators may only be exempted from the application of the relevant standards provided that this does not lead to a significant increase in the risk to human health or the environment. The Bill provides for a longer period for the designation by the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology (BIM) of individuals to check the effectiveness in the capture of petrol money. A document for calibration of benchmarks and measuring instruments relating to the procedure for empowering persons shall be provided by official means where the calibration certificate is issued by BIM. A time limit shall be set for the authorisation verification. Provisions relating to two European regulations shall also be revised concerning substances that deplete the ozone layer and fluorinated greenhouse gases, clearly distinguishing the The expected results of the implementation of the Bill are related to reducing the administrative burden for business and achieving legal clarity by clarifying provisions relating to the application of legislation in the field of air cleanliness. The President of the Commission Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva expressed support for the main objectives laid down in the bill. As regards the question: has there been any requests submitted by operators to change the requirements for non-organised emissions standards and have there been any authorisations granted so far, Mrs. Atanaska Nikolova, clarified that these provisions are related to transposition of European legislation and are currently established in a sub-legal regulation, namely Ordinance No 7 of 2003 on emission limit values for volatile organic compounds released into the environment, mainly in the ambient air, as a result of the use of solvents in certain installations. Until now, no requests have been received by operators and no authorisation has therefore been granted to change the rules on disorganised emissions. After the discussion and the vote held, the Committee on Environment and Water with 12 votes for...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Act on Air Cleanliness, No 902-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u40	Thank you, Dr. Grudev. A report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is next. You're welcome to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u41	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act, No 902-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 July 2019. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 11 September 2019, examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on Air Cleanliness, No 902-01-39. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Environment and Waters at Atanaska Nikolova, Deputy Minister, and Ivan Angelov Director of the Department of Air Cleanliness. Chairman of the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Nikolova. According to the importer, the objectives of the proposed bill are: adoption of measures for transformation of the model of administrative service in the legislation on the protection of ambient air cleanliness; settlement of a longer period for the designation by the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology of persons to verify the effectiveness of the capture of petrol money at petrol stations; precision of a provision relating to the control of solid fuels, as well as a definition of the implementation of Regulation (EC) No According to the importer, no additional costs/transfers and other payments on the budgets of the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Environment and Water are necessary for the implementation of the activities under the Bill. A preliminary impact assessment, as well as those required under Article, has been applied to the Bill. 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Following the end of the discussion and the outcome of the vote: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: He proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Act on Air Cleanliness, No 902-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u42	Thank you, Mr. Mihowski. Following is the Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you are, Mr. President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! At its regular meeting held on 11 September 2019, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds examined the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act. The bill was presented by Mrs. Atanaska Nikolova, Deputy Minister of Environment and Water. The meeting was attended by Mr. Georgi Mihailov, State Expert at the Environment Protection Directorate at the Ministry of Environment and Water. According to the reasons, the bill amending and supplementing the Law on Air Cleanliness sets a number of objectives. In the part concerning the activities of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, it is envisaged by § 2 of the Bill to transpose art. 59 (2) of Directive 2010/75/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on industrial emissions. In this regard, importers point out that the requirements and specific rules for the issue of a decision to exempt from an obligation to comply with rules on non-organised emissions (NNEs) for volatile organic compounds and the identification of new NNEs currently laid down in a sub-legal regulation................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The draft law also provides for the clarification of a provision relating to the control of solid fuels as well as a definition of the application of Regulation (EC) No The modification of the definition is due to the need for a clear distinction between the term "destroy' and those regulations, on the one hand, and with regard to solid fuels, on the other. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, with 5 votes for the European Fund, and 2 votes for abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Act on Air Cleanness, No 902-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u44	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Will there be an importer's opinion? There's no demand. My fellow Members, I am opening the debate. Are there any statements on the bill presented? I won't. I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs to the House for a vote. We proceed to the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on Air Cleanliness, No 902-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 July 2019. Please, voting mode. They voted 118 MPs: 90, none, abstention 28. The bill has been passed. We continue our work with the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS. Mr. Letifov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u45	Thank you, Madam President. I'm doing the admission procedure in the hall on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2, please allow the Deputy Minister of Transport Mrs. Andreana Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u46	Thank you. There's been a procedural proposal for admission to the court. Please, voting mode. 99 MPs voted: 96, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber. We'll continue with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u47	"Improvement and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Communications" The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u48	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. They voted 106 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u49	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u50	Are there any statements under § 1? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposal and paragraph are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u51	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2, i.e. 1 concerning para. 3, p. 2 the words "non-reporting of information to users' by "supplied' shall be replaced by "intruded' by "intruded'.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u52	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the text of the importer for § 2 with the just-read amendment proposal. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u53	'Concluding provision'. The Commission does not support the importer's text on the name of the subdivision and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u54	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal not to support the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision. Vote 98 MPs: 96 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u55	Under § 3 there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 3. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 3 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u56	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's motion to reject § 3. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Dear Members of Parliament, we are continuing with the reports on the point that has remained since yesterday: ANNUAL REPORT ON THE SITUATION OF NATIONAL SECURITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA IN 2018 I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. We are continuing with the Defence Committee Report. Here you go, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u57	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019. At a regular meeting held on 11 September 2019, the Defence Committee discussed the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019. The meeting was attended by 17 MPs. They attended: the Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers Georgi Krastev and the Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zaprianov. The annual report was presented by the Secretary of the Security Council Georgi Krastev, who presented the purpose, main content and technology of the preparation. Deputy Minister Atanas Zapreyanov presented the opinion of the Ministry of Defence, according to which the report objectively reflects the state, problems and ways of solving them in terms of defence and defence policy. The main content of the Annual Report reflects analyses and assessments of the risks, dangers and threats to the Republic of Bulgaria in the process of realization of the state policy in defence of national security. An analysis of the main processes of internal and external nature having a significant impact on its state has been carried out. Through the assessment of risks and threats, their impact on the stability of the overall financial and economic system, energy security, education, justice and internal order, defence, cyber security, countering corruption, as well as the threat to migration processes and refugee flows. The activities, results and achievements of the first Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union are presented. National counter-terrorism policy has been reported as well as the real results of countering and co-operation with partner services in the European Union and NATO. Details are presented and analyzed the overall activities of the Ministry of Interior for the protection of internal order and security. The defence is reflected in all three sections of the Report. It is concluded that the state of defence capabilities allows the Bulgarian armed forces to carry out their tasks on the missions arising from the constitutional obligations to ensure the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the country in a national format and within the framework of NATO's collective defence and the Common Security and Defence Policy of the European Union, but with certain restrictions. The main directions of work, results and problems in the implementation of the defence policy in 2018 are shown. The serious difficulties regarding the assembly of the formations, the motivation of the personnel, the financial and material deficiencies regarding the certified declared formations in the implementation of the NATO capabilities goals adopted by Bulgaria, the reduced flight resources of the Air Force, the reduced basic technical parameters of the radar complex due to persistent malfunctions leading to significant problems with the formed radar coverage, the indecent condition of some of the anti-missile equipment operating in conditions of acute shortage of spare parts are not hidden. The report also describes the efforts undertaken by the end of 2019, the main of which are: • Conducting a defence review as part of the Strategic Review of the National Security Protection System and a Strategic Defence Review.................................................................................................................................................... - Implementation of the financial framework of the National Defence Plan for 2% of GDP by 2024 in the effective and efficient use of the planned funds; - Realization of the three main modernization projects for Land Troops, Air Force and Naval Forces according to the projects for investment costs approved by the National Assembly; - Implementation of the activities under the 2017 NATO capacity targets package; - Realization of an effective package of measures to retain the service of prepared and motivated personnel and to increase interest in the military profession; - Building cyber defense capabilities and developing conceptual and doctrinal base in the field of cyber defense. During the discussion the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Nikolay Tsonkov, Boris Vangelov and Valentin Radev spoke. In their speeches, the first two MPs disagreed with the conclusions and assessments in the report, pointing out that as far as the defence sector is concerned, the problems are many, based on underfinancing and wrong policy, which led to a huge incompletion, poor state of arms and equipment and low motivation of personnel. The issue of the actual assessment of the state of defence was also raised as a basis for national security, which is virtually absent in the report. MPs Boris Vangelov and Valentin Radev disagreed with the assessment, saying that national security should be assessed in a complex way, the state is stable in terms of economics and finances and a real growth in incomes is reported. They noted that the country stands stable on the international stage. According to them, the report shows convincingly the reality of the situation, does not cover the problems and points out the challenges that are being dealt with responsibly and hardly. People's representative Vladimir Toshev, presiding in conclusion, noted the importance of the National Security Report, giving a detailed picture of success, problems and challenges. He pointed out that, given the Commission's always held responsibility for examining defence issues and national security, it is appropriate for the report to be assessed in dignity and called for support from all Commissioners. During the 11-vote vote, 5 votes against a defence committee, and 1 vote abstention, the Defence Committee proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. We are continuing with the Commission's Security Services Control Report. You have the floor, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u59	Dear Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on the Annual Report on the State of National Security in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted By the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019, At its closed meeting held on 11 September 2019, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act examined and discussed the Annual Report on the State of National Security in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council at the Council of Ministers; Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the State Agency "National Security"; Mr. Dimitar Gerkov, Director of the Directorate of the Ministry of National Security, Mr. Atanas Atanasov, Chairman of the State Agency......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The report was presented by Mr. Georgi Krastev. The legal basis for its submission to the National Assembly is art. 7, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System, etc. 185 of the updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria. The 2018 report is systematized in three main sections, introduction and conclusion. It covers the main problems and solutions in the field of national security in 2018, the implementation of some of which is observed at the beginning of this year. It presents the main results of the activities of the security services. The report's main objective is to present the assessments of the executive and legislative authorities on the risks, hazards and threats, on the effectiveness and efficiency of the national security policy, on the actions the state institutions plan to take in the next period. Section I of the Report gives an assessment of the risks, dangers and threats to the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. In view of the Commission's portfolio, several groups of threats to cybersecurity, protection of classified information, the national security protection system and the activities of foreign special services should be identified. In 2018, the frequency, scope and diversity of cybercrime in the Republic of Bulgaria increased. Current remains the acts related to unauthorised access and hacking attacks on Internet sites of individuals, public and private organizations, user profiles in various social networks and unauthorised access to mailboxes. As major threats, viruses and spyware and malware codes are pointed out. There is a tendency to increase cyber fraud, including violations of the type of social engineering and phishing, which aims to acquire unauthorized access to systems or information that enables the operation of foreign bank accounts, credit cards and others. The collapse of the Commercial Register and the register of non-profit legal entities in 2018 is an example of a risk in the information field. As a result of unauthorised access, important systems have been blocked for society. The report shall analyse the main aspects of the activities of protecting classified information. It is noted that in the past year the security of classified information is governed by continuous changes in the security environment. It is found that the National System for the Protection of Classified Information is effective and capable of minimizing the risks and harmful consequences of them for national security. The actions taken by the competent authorities have achieved a high level of protection of classified information by individual types of security. The state of the national security protection system has also been examined. In relation to the financial security of the sector, it is noted that it has remained underfunded in some of the essential directions of the legally defined functions, tasks and activities. It is noted that the available financial security does not allow the full implementation of legal functions, the resolution of problems with the personnel deficit, personnel development and professional qualifications, as well as material and technical security. As regards the activities of foreign special services, it is noted that in 2018 the intelligence activity of the Republic of Bulgaria is related to the processes and membership of the country in NATO and the European Union, with a focus on the rotating Representation of the Council of the European Union in the first quarter of the year. Attention is paid to the main security challenges in the Black Sea region, which are characterized by the sharpening of confrontation in Eastern Ukraine. The risks to Euro-Atlantic security are strengthened as a result of continued failure and selective implementation by the Russian Federation of international treaties in the field of arms control. The attack on the Skripal family is a precedent for using a poisonous substance developed as a chemical weapon in Europe after World War II. Another type of security threats are related to the migration pressure on the Republic of Bulgaria. In 2018, the trend for its reduction was maintained. The requested transfers are 424 and the actual ones are 85. Section II of the Report provides an overview of the policies for the protection of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018. In the context of internal order and security, the fight against foreign special services is pointed out. To this end, a wide toolkit shall be applied in close cooperation with the Allied and Partner Services. They shall be in continuous notification and joint operations. The report pays attention to countering extremist activity, where the preventive approach is the leading one. Through it, the competent authorities, including the SANS, plan and conduct measures to prevent extremist actions. The prevention of the risk of terrorism has been noted. Interdepartmental coordination mechanisms have been established to check any signal containing signs of terrorist activity. In this regard, the activities of the National Counterterrorism Centre in the DANS are extremely important. It conducts a continuous exchange of information with the competent authorities of others held by the European Union and NATO. In 2018, by order of the Chairman of the SANS, forced administrative measures were imposed on 15 persons involved in terrorist activities. Since the end of 2017, the National Air Passenger Recording Unit (PNR) has been operational at the SANS. Its aim is to prevent, detect, investigate and prosecute persons related to terrorism and other serious crimes. Counter-terrorism is also implemented through the effective implementation of the Act on Measures against Money Laundering, which also amends the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism in March 2018. A cybersecurity law was adopted at the end of 2018, which regulates the obligations of the individual institutions, including the SANS. The adoption of this regulation clearly expresses the country's desire to counter cybercrime and to fulfil the commitments made under EU membership. SANS cooperates in the process of identifying and restoring the computer information systems of state agencies affected by cyber attacks. Mr. Krastev paid attention to the activities of the state institutions during the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, whose security and security are provided by the National Security Service. He also highlighted the important role of the National Security Agency and the Military Information Service on the information assurance of the Presidency. It is noted that in 2018, the national security protection system carried out its activities in accordance with the regulations. The Security Council has held a total of five meetings, two regular and three extraordinary. The meeting, held on 21 June 2018, decided to propose to the Council of Ministers a Strategic Review of the National Security Protection System to continue until 30 April 2020. In 2018, research units active in the field of national security are operating in the Republic of Bulgaria. In practice, however, there is not a sufficiently clear and coordinated state policy to stimulate national security research. The report outlines the prospects for strengthening the country's security in a national and international context arising from the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. It is noted that the changed security environment requires improving the mechanisms for interaction between institutions in the sector of security and developing coordinated policies and a strategic conceptual framework for countering modern threats. With regard to the fight against terrorism, cooperation at international level is undoubtedly necessary there. The review of the national security protection system shows that it is necessary to develop a new National Security Strategy. It should form the strategic framework for improving regulations and for building a National Crisis Management System. In this regard, a permanent provision of the National Crisis Management Centre is also needed, as well as the development of a project to improve the communication information infrastructure of all institutions in the National Security Protection System. On the basis of the discussion carried out, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications with 4 votes............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Report will introduce us to Mr. Ademov. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on Draft Decision adopting the Annual Report on the status of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers On 11 July 2018, the Council adopted Regulation The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its regular meeting held on 24 July 2019 discussed and discussed a draft decision adopting the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers, who presented the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018. In his exhibition Mr. Krastev noted that the submission to the National Assembly of the Annual Report on the State of National Security in 2018 was in implementation of art. 7, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System, etc. 185 of the updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted by decision of the National Assembly. The main objective of the report is to present the executive's assessment of the risks, hazards and threats, of the effectiveness and efficiency of the national security policy in 2018, of the actions the state institutions plan to take in the next period. It was noted that the Annual Report is essential for informing public institutions and civil organisations in other countries, as well as NATO and European Union structures, international organisations on the security policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. A significant place in the report is devoted to problems in the field of demography and to some particularly important aspects of social security such as the return policy for children who for one reason or another have dropped out of the education system. The report detailed the activities, results and achievements of the first Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. It is concluded that the objectives set have been successfully achieved. It is noted that by common recognition of the allied and partner countries the active policy of our country for good neighbourliness, understanding, interstate dialogue with the countries of the Western Balkans have created the authority of the Republic of Bulgaria as a respected and sought-after factor in the region for lasting solution of long-term problems and for forming strategic prospects for bilateral and multilateral relations. In the first section, the assessment of the risks, dangers and threats to the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria is based on summarised findings concerning the factors with a long-term negative impact on social security. In 2018, the population in Bulgaria continued to decline. According to NSI data, as of 31 December 2018, the population of Bulgaria is 7 000 039, representing 1.4% of the population of the European Union. Compared to 2017, the country's population decreased by 49,995, or by 0.7%. The process of ageing the population continues. At the end of 2018, the persons aged 65 and over are 21.3% of the country's population. Compared to 2017, the share of the population in this age group increased by 0.3 percentage points. As of 31 December 2018, the overall age dependency ratio was 55.5%, or each person in dependent ages (less than 15 years and over 65 years) was less than two active age subjects. For comparison, in 2017, this coefficient was 54.5%. The ageing population led to an increase in its average age, which from 40.4 years in 2001 grew to 43.8 years at the end of 2018. The demographic replacement factor, which shows the ratio between the number of workers aged (15 years) and the number of workers aged (60 years) shows an alarming trend in the reduction of the productivity of the working population. As of 31 December 2018, this ratio was 66. For comparison, 2001. 100 people coming from a working age were replaced by 124 young people. The number of deceased persons in 2018 was 108 526, while the total mortality rate was 15.4%. Compared to the previous year, the number of deaths decreased by 1265 or by 1.2%. The level of total population mortality in the Republic of Bulgaria is highest among the EU member states. The second section of the National Security Protection Policy contains information on employment policies, the improvement of qualification and demographic issues held in 2018. In 2018, active labour market policy has been prioritised towards the target group of unemployed young people up to 29 years of age with a sub-group of up to 25 years of age, young people who are neither trained nor employed, unemployed over 50 years of age, long-term unemployed, unemployed with low qualifications and lack of key competences, people with disabilities, inactive persons willing to work, including discouraged persons. As a result of the overall activity of the Employment Agency, nearly 230 thousand unemployed begin work, of which in the primary market over 196 thousand. Total of programmes and measures for training and employment, and adult training under the National Employment Action Plan as of 31 December 2018 are provided with the employment of 21 297 persons, 14 730 persons are included in the new employment and 10 533 unemployed. The projects financed under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" in 2018 12 206 unemployed persons are enrolled in employment and 9342 are enrolled in training. In the third section, key conclusions on the state of national security and development guidelines in the field of social security are outlined policy guidelines. Particular attention is paid to the need to reach a long-term political agreement to implement the measures identified to mitigate the negative demographic impacts on all spheres and areas of public life and to adequately address demographic changes in this century. Due to the highly inertial and difficult reversible nature of demographic changes and trends in the Republic of Bulgaria, like many other EU countries, the official forecasts of population development in the coming decades are unfavorable. And given the processes of enhanced economic development and the creation of new jobs, it is important to focus both on the short-term finding of a workforce from third countries and on measures for the long-term retention of its own workforce and attracting it back from abroad. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Hasan Ademov, Vessela Lecheva, Georgi Gokov, Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Violeta Zheleva. From the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, they said they will not support the report and noted that it looks formal and the recommendations from the previous years have not been taken into account. In conclusion, Georgi Krastev noted that the recommendations made will be taken into account in the preparation of the next reports. After the end of the discussion and voting with results: 9 votes, 1 vote against...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Asks the National Assembly not to support the draft decision adopting the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902 00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u62	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. We continue with the next report by the Committee on Health. Order, you have the floor, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm giving your attention. ♪ I can't believe on: Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019. At an extraordinary meeting held on 11 September 2019, the Health Committee discussed and discussed the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Health Mrs. Svetlana Yordanova, and Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. The annual report on the state of national security shall be submitted to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 7, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System. The report is essential for informing public institutions and civil organisations in other countries, NATO and EU structures, as well as international organisations on the security policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. The main objective of the report is to present the executive's assessment of the risks, dangers and threats; the effectiveness and efficiency of the national security policy; the actions that state institutions plan to take in the next period. Mr. Krastev presented the Annual Report on the State of National Security on the basis of Decision No 401 of 11 July 2019 of the Council of Ministers. In his presentation he focused mainly on the problems, priorities and achievements in the field of health as part of the national security policy of the country. The government's efforts to implement programmes and strategic documents, legislative changes and initiatives related to the development of the health system in 2018 are aimed at protecting citizens' health, sustainable development of activities in medical and health institutions, providing emergency medical care, transfusion haematological, transplantation, medical expertise, state health control, stable psychiatric assistance. The report found that the application of negative health trends requires urgent and targeted efforts to mobilise all the resources that the state and society can provide, to stop them in the health system and to improve the health status of the population. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The report also focuses on the positive trend observed in 2018, related to a reduction in the number of judicial regulations under attack in the health system, as well as a reduction in the number of regulations repealed by the Supreme Administrative Court issued by the Minister of Health and, accordingly, an increase in the number of judicial decisions entering into force rejecting complaints against health regulations. This leads to the establishment of a condition of relative stability and the elimination of some of the risks to national security. In 2018, no significant epidemic explosions were detected on the territory of the country. Imports of diseases posing a public health hazard have not been allowed in accordance with the criteria of the International Health Regulations. Unlike last year's National Security Report, the problem of ensuring continuous water supply with safe and compliant drinking water is addressed in the 2018 report; state health and radiation control is addressed; attention is paid to future priorities in the field of transfusion haematology, as well as to the problems of psychiatric aid in the country. On the basis of the discussion and the vote taken on the following results: 11 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902 00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u64	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. And the last of the reports is the Commission for Monitoring Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'd like to introduce you. ♪ I can't believe Subject: Annual report on the state of national security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019. At its extraordinary meeting held on 17 July 2019 together with the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling discussed the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers; Mr. Stefan Balabanov, Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mrs. Naska Alipieva, Director of the Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, Analysis and Policies; Mr. Nikolay Nenkov and Mr. Borislav Gerkov from the State Agency of National Security. The report was presented by Mr. Krastev. It contains information on the work of the revenue agencies, measures against the grey economy and smuggling as part of internal security, the damage to the state budget of the crimes against the customs regime, the tax, the monetary and insurance system having a direct impact on the stability of the fiscal system. The application by the specialised authorities of the decision to limit the illegal market in tobacco products in the country has led to a record drop in consumption of tobacco products without paid excise duty. The Republic of Bulgaria ranks among the EU countries with the smallest market share of cigarettes without excise blenderol. During the year, tobacco products distributed on the territory of the country without excise banderol are mostly illegally manufactured cigarettes. The Republic of Bulgaria continues to be a transit country for the smuggling of cigarettes destined for EU countries, with the origin of most tobacco products without Banderol passing through the country from third countries. In the case of alcoholic products, the problem remains the non-reliance over the flowmeter of the spirit and spirit produced. Illegal production is carried out by manipulating the control point in the tax warehouse and using bypass links to circumvent controls. Illegal fuel consumption leads to the most significant loss of excise revenue and value added tax for the state budget. The trend is maintained that the majority of those involved in production and trade in energy products are engaged in real commercial activities and in parallel to the implementation of various criminal schemes related to avoiding the payment of the full amount of excise duty and VAT. One of the main priorities of the government of the Republic of Bulgaria is increasing budget revenues through effective prevention and combating customs, tax and insurance fraud, tax evasion and reduction of the share of the gray economy. In order to implement the government priority in 2018, both legal changes and revenue administrations' actions in the field of collection and control have been taken. Changes have been made to tax regulations relating to the optimization of the control activities of the revenue administration in order to prevent tax evasion and non-tax evasion. In the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses, a provision is adopted which introduces joint liability for the collection of excise duties in cases of consumption of energy products outside the conditions for exemption from excise duty. The aim is to avoid the refund of excise duties in the event of non-compliance with a condition with respect to the final purpose and in the case of the supply of energy products for the loading of vessels and aircraft. An amendment has been made in order to establish a legal regulation on the condition that the full duty on excise duty is paid in excess of the annual eligible production of 200,000 specifics of beer by a person who has received an independent small brewery certificate. Texts have been revised in the Law on excises and tax warehouses concerning the ban on the publication of advertisements and communications, including in electronic form, by which excise goods are offered for sale, as well as tobacco waste. The prohibition shall not apply to traders offering alcoholic beverages via an electronic shop where the goods are covered by Banderol, where required, or the excise duty payable is paid. The implementation of the proven effectiveness of tax revenue increases is ongoing, such as: Implementation of fiscal control over the movement of goods at high fiscal risk. The list of high fiscal risk goods shall be determined by order of the Minister of Finance, which shall be published on the websites of the Ministry of Finance and the National Revenue Agency; the implementation of a mechanism aimed at preventing the possibility of abuse and VAT fraud in the trade in liquid fuels. A comprehensive control of the process related to the supply and movement of liquid fuels from a producer and importer to a final consumer was introduced in the post-2011 period and data exchange between the information systems of the two revenue agencies. Given the existing risks and threats arising from the smuggling of excise goods and tax crimes at national and European level, the activities of the Ministry of Interior in countering them are harmonised with the policy and priority objectives of the Bulgarian Government and those of the European Union. The efforts are aimed at implementing strategic, tactical and operational measures to curb criminal markets and to break down criminal networks and mechanisms for smuggling, customs fraud and VAT fraud, causing significant damage to the Republican budget and the European Union budget. In 2018, the activities of the Interdepartmental Coordination Centre for Countering Smuggling and Control of the Movement of Risk Goods and Goods of DGBOP are aimed at ensuring effective operational interaction between the structures of the Ministry of Interior and the external services represented at the Centre in order to counter infringements and crimes in the field of tax and customs legislation having an adverse impact on the fiscal policy of the State. Controls have been carried out in the trade and distribution of liquid fuels and 12 specialized operations have been coordinated to counter infringements and crimes in the sector, complex controls have been carried out on 130 sites (benzinhostations, gas stations, tax warehouses) and 580 auto-hysterical ones. 303 collaterals were imposed for 129 debtors operating with energy products, amounting to BGN 739 985. 79 planned incoming controls of vessels were carried out in the introduction of energy products in the ports in Burgas, Varna and Ruse. In 2018, there was a significant decline in cigarette smuggling, which is the result of increased measures on the borders and inside the country of the Ministry of Interior and Customs. In their joint actions, 81 818 011 short cigarettes and 78 965 tonnes of chopped tobacco were seized on their own, over 60% more than 2017, for both categories of excise goods. Four illegal tobacco factories and an illegal tobacco cutting plant were discovered on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Two channels of cigarette smuggling have been crossed. Since the beginning of 2018, the state authorities have continued to increase physical control in tobacco factories in the country. All these measures create conditions for increasing the market share for legal cigarettes, which also leads to an increase in the proceeds of the excise duty paid for them. At the end of 2018, legislative measures were taken to address the issue of sources of smuggled cigarettes and alcohol, with changes to the Criminal Code criminalised the illegal production of excise goods. It is also criminalised to conceal tobacco, machinery and materials for the production of excise goods and increased penalties for the distribution of cigarettes and alcohol without Banderol. Efforts are being made to impose common control by the Ministry of Interior, the National Revenue Agency and the Customs Agency................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Coordination has been established between the individual institutions engaged in the service of financial and tax relations and the possibility to check the current status and status of economic operators in the trade in fuels in a timely manner through terminal links and a single information system. Since February 2019, the Interdepartmental Coordination Centre has been granted access to the Integrated CCTV system of maritime spaces. These actions by the revenue administration and law enforcement institutions significantly limit the damage caused by criminal activity in the field of fuel trade and the result is an increase in excise and VAT revenues. After the discussion and the vote held: with 10 votes for the National Assembly, without the opposition and 7 votes abstention, the Committee for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling proposes that the National Assembly adopt an Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Tinchev. This was the last report, moving on to discussion. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u67	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am simply forced by the fact that obviously the interest in the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria is not very high and the half-empty hall, I think does not correspond to the importance of the topic which we will try to discuss today, but perhaps it also makes sense in this. Let's start with the report itself. The fact that, in mid-September, we are discussing a National Security Report in 2018, in itself shows that this is a largely pointless exercise, because if we discuss past events almost a year later, the actuality of the subject has long been lost. Therefore, one of our main recommendations to the members of the Report and, respectively, to the government is to try in the 2019 Report, if we really need to make a special requirement by the Parliament, to draw up and export in the first quarter of next year, in order to make sense not only to discuss what it says in the Report, but also to discuss possible recommendations on what to do in the country in relation to this report in this year. By the structure itself we also believe that the quality of a report is measured not with its vastness, 220 pages is a very serious work, but there are no accents in it, no policies that are key to national security where the risks are the most serious, and in this stream of information that this report contains, little is lost and the conclusions themselves are missing, and recommendations are missing. This report is also unbalanced because there are topics on which there are unnecessary details, and other topics have the most general findings, and these are topics that have a direct relation to national security. Compare the statistics and information that is given for example for the labour market programmes and the people who received a job in relation to these programmes in 2018 and at the same time most common wishes in areas such as defence and foreign policy. We believe that these imbalances should be corrected in the next report. The lack of accents actually shows that the report itself is the most common reporting. We can call it, in which there is a lot of information, but the lack of accents and recommendations makes it to a large extent pointless. I also believe that we need to change the way that we are here in Parliament at all, discussing and accepting these reports. In fact, what is the role of Parliament being exhausted? In a discussion in the committees, in a discussion in parliament and finally a adoption of a report in which we cannot make any changes. That is, from our discussion there remains no real document, no real opportunity for us as MPs and as Parliament to make recommendations to the government. Therefore, this type of report, because there are others of this nature that we are looking at here, we need to see whether we cannot adopt them with a resolution resolution, a declaration............................. to consider the form in which we as a parliament can make our real recommendations to the government. Otherwise, we simply become a speech room and a rubber stamp for a report drawn up by the government, and we cannot bring any change into it. We want the National Assembly to be able to contribute not only through the discussion. I will mark several topics which I think have escaped from the report's members, the working group, which in itself has tried to summarize indeed what came from the ministries, but, again, I say, the analytical side is a bit lacking and the policy recommendations are absent. It seems to us that one of the key issues that threaten Bulgaria's national security has been passed over and at least it has not been highlighted clearly enough, namely the deepening social division in the country, the deepening social gap, which instead of closing in the years of EU membership, in the years in which the European Union itself has special policies in this direction to close these differences, in Bulgaria these differences are growing. The difference in income and well-being of the poorest and richest in Bulgaria continues to grow and is the largest in percentage compared to any other member state of the European Union. Along with this, regional differences and imbalances continue to grow. Despite the already approaching end of the second programming period, which is specifically aimed, especially in regional policy, at closing these imbalances, they are increasing. This has not received its proper place in this report, but there are other government reports where this is specifically noted and I would recommend when such reports are adopted by the government, let there be some synchronization. In the spring of this year, the Council of Ministers adopted an analysis of Bulgaria's socio-economic development for 2007 - 2017, which aimed to define national priorities for the period and there these things are marked. I believe that we need to be more honest in our approach, and I stress again that these differences between regions are a particular risk to the national security of the country, especially where it is about the depopulation of border regions. There is nothing about the functioning of the institutions. The topic of electronic governance is virtually absent from the National Security Report. This became a topic this year even more serious, but the problems were identified even in 2018. I don't know why the topic wasn't analyzed, for example, with the collapse in the Trade Register last year and the whole range of problems that were highlighted around this situation? It seems to us that this is a key issue for national security as well, and the attention to it is close to zero. I include here the topic of cybersecurity, which is marked in the Report, but at the same time there is little to do with the possible recommendations and actions of the government from now on to ensure this security. Colleagues will comment on the issues related to agriculture, but in terms of my personal interest as a representative from the Yambol region, I am surprised that the issue of epidemics that arose last year and were addressed in a rather inadequate way by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency has found little place in this report. And this is related not only to the issue of agriculture, but also to the issue of depopulation, to the need for specific support for the border regions, to all the topics that have escaped from this report, too. Colleagues will comment, in particular, on the question of demographic policy, a policy that has found its place in this report, but above all with some statistics, graphs and comparisons, but very little in terms of the possible policy that should be pursued in this direction by the government. For BSP this topic is key, it is normal for you too. We agree that demographic issues, demographic policy should be the focus of the government's, parliament's attention, but from the government's actions, from the decisions we make here, and from the National Security Report we cannot draw that conclusion. In the end, I'm going to say that Brexit is almost out of the question. It is clear that this is a topic that is constantly in development and it is very difficult to address the details of it, but it seems to us that in 2018, and in 2019 the topic of the rights of Bulgarians has different assessments on this issue, but there are dozens and perhaps hundreds of thousands in the UK and are related to even more Bulgarian citizens here in Bulgaria, should receive more special attention. Here I would like to say that I see no reason in the National Security Report in 2018 for 30 pages to be dedicated to the Bulgarian Presidency. I do not belittle the topic, of course, but frankly, we do not see the direct link between the Bulgarian Presidency and the problems of Bulgaria's national security, even more so, that some of the topics discussed during the Bulgarian Presidency have not found serious analysis in the relevant parts, say, in foreign policy. We believe that there should be greater attention there " and there should be little more in the 2019 Report than in principles, general talks about external security threats, but as a key issue of national security relations and policy priorities for these neighbours. To mention that the European Union is devoted a lot to the Bulgarian Presidency, but there is no analysis of whether we are actually achieving our priorities and objectives, which are long-term and have put them before our accession to the European Union. Immediately thereafter, the Cooperation and Evaluation Mechanism is mentioned in one sentence, but what follows is not clear. I read very carefully about whether I would see anything about Schengen. I may have missed, but I really do not see any specific efforts, because for Schengen membership, although it was removed as a priority by the Prime Minister a few days ago, we believe it is key for Bulgaria, for Bulgarian citizens and I will not stop myself at the moment why. This topic must continue to be of the attention of the institutions, including the National Assembly, and must find a more serious place in the report. I conclude with the fact that in terms of a very important issue for national security, both domestic and external, corruption has been given too little attention to Bulgaria. We don't know why that is. One explanation was that on this topic there will be a separate report of another committee. But since the issue of fighting corruption, including on the high floors, is a key issue of the attitude towards Bulgaria and within the European Union, it is also key in terms of the prospects for the country's economic development and investment. This topic should be present more closely in the Report. With this I can say that the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria is not going to support this report, but we hope that on the basis of the recommendations that we are making and who will make the next speeches, they will take into account when the next report is drawn up, and that the majority of Parliament will also bear it in mind when it is submitted for discussion next time in 2020. The 2019 report, to try to make it possible for MPs to participate more closely in the definition of recommendations on national security, and then we can look for a wider consensus on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u68	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Gokov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u69	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This is an extremely important document for our country, as our national security is important, and the report on national security issues is important. Firstly, I am going to express my surprise that this report has not been allocated to the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Also in our motives it is reported that the main purpose of the report is rather to present the assessments of the executive body on the risks, dangers and threats to the effectiveness and effectiveness of national security policies and the actions that the institutions of the state plan to take for the next period, that it is essential for informing public institutions and, note, to civil organisations, including in other countries on the security policy of the Republic of Bulgaria, and we do not find it appropriate to discuss the report in the Commission, which deals with these civil NGOs. There is hardly anyone in this Chamber doubt that the development of civil society in Bulgaria and the importance of this development for our national security, as well as all related risks, deserve the attention of the Bulgarian Parliament. For me, it is no less important in this House to hear the opinion of this civil society in the face of the non-governmental organisations of the Public Council of the Commission, both with regard to the National Security Report and with regard to the national security itself and the risks and threats which it faces. I will allow myself to make a recommendation to the President of the National Assembly to distribute such important documents for our country to the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints so that the MPs can hear the voice of civil society on the occasion of these documents. I will also allow a second recommendation to the members of the Report: despite its enormous volume and the huge information it contains, to devote a little space to national security in the development of civil society, because it is important. The report contains extremely much information, including social information, and so gathered in one place there is nowhere else to be found. It objectively shows serious problems that are indeed a threat to national security, but it is of the impression that these problems are present to a lesser or greater extent in all reports from years back in every field of healthcare, social policy, internal security, defence and so on. That is, this government, which has ruled our country for more than ten years, sees the problems, but finds it difficult to solve these problems and is largely trying to present them in a pink light. Although I have formed an opinion in all directions of the Report, I will allow myself to comment on just one more sphere where I feel more competent, namely national security in a purely social aspect. It is rightly recognised that the demographic problem is a threat to our social and social security systems, and hence a threat to national security because it reduces our potential as a nation in a social, scientific and cultural aspect. The state lacks adequate policies to promote birth rates. Let's put aside the fact that we don't have a clearly defined demographic policy, and we have strategies, we have measures, we have action plans, we have reports, but we have no results. However, it seems to me that when assessing the risks, the dangers and threats to national security, when we are talking about social security and, along with demographic, educational, health, migration and refugee aspects, a place should be allocated to unprecedented high levels of inequality, poverty and social exclusion. Bulgaria faces significant social problems and challenges. Polarization in society, significant youth and long-term unemployment, poverty remains serious and unsolvable at the moment, and we must not pass them lightly. There are no findings and policies regarding social balances and social policy, although it is a significant trend for increasing the number of socially excluded ones. There is no strategy to reduce the risk of expanding marginalizing groups that are increasingly associated with the middle class representatives of young people, single mothers, elderly people, drug addicts working in the gray economy, people with disabilities, energy poor, people who are in physical personal bankruptcy. I do not want to think that these gaps in the report are the result of the government's low awareness of national security risks posed by increasing marginalisation, but I do not have an answer to the question: why do the government avoid any debate about poverty, inequalities, impoverishment, interethnic opposition, marginalisation and so on? These painful issues for the Bulgarian society will not be resolved by themselves, if we do not talk about them, they will not disappear. It is good for the government to listen to the opposition in the face of the BSP on these subjects, because we have solutions on these issues. The policies for solving these problems that the government applies are insufficiently developed, insufficiently financially supported, concentrated only in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, run out of almost only temporary employment programmes, qualification and re-qualification programmes with low effect and social benefits for socially weak people, families and people with disabilities. This concludes the guidelines in which social policies are directed. Just because of the lack of time, I will not dwell on serious national security problems from the lack of qualified labour. This directly deprives us of the potential for growth and well-being. I am stopping here, although the threats and risks to national security in the social security aspect cannot be exhausted in parliamentary debates on a report. A consensual and complex approach to the problems, risks and dangers of national security is needed. I will refrain from supporting the report. I guess the BSP group for Bulgaria will do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u70	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Mr. Gokov, I'm going to allow myself on behalf of the management because there was a question for us about the distribution, you could use the Order of Art. 77. I'm sure we'd have looked at it with understanding. Are there any lines? I can't see. We continue with the following speeches. Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u71	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll take charge of the report. First, I would like to draw attention and ask: did any of you, after reading this report, which is called the State of National Security Report of the Republic of Bulgaria, understand what is the state of national security as an assessment? Somewhere in the Report did you see an assessment of national security.................... whether it is satisfactory, whether it is not satisfactory, whether it meets modern requirements, or if there are still many things to be desired? Yesterday I said that in the Defense Committee. I will read several conclusions that you have drawn in the conclusions that have been tabled here. They sound so, I read from the Report: Financial stability and the pace of economic development are at the heart of the justified expectations and the immediate prospect that our country will join the European Monetary Mechanism. The measures taken in 2018 towards the development of strategic projects in the field of energy made it possible for long delayed energy and infrastructure projects to begin in the first half of 2019. Successes in the field of education and social policy are at the heart of the emerging trends and quality enhancements and such ditherms in what successes we have achieved. I ask one question: when they accept a National Security Report, have they read their report in the Council of Ministers before then, their document, which is called the Social and Economic Development of Bulgaria 2007 "2017"? Because if they'd read it, those ditherms in the report we're looking at today, they probably wouldn't be there. I will allow myself to read an opinion not of the opposition, but an opinion of the Council of Ministers what it says about socio-economic development, which is an element of national security. Firstly, the current demographic picture in the country and the prospects for its development in the medium and long term will generally compromise the economic system's ability to generate high sustainable growth and reduce the efficiency of economic policy. The next finding from this report: the education system does not adequately provide the necessary skills and measures aimed at eliminating the shortage of these skills are of limited scope and efficiency. Further on: the socio-economic situation and development of Bulgaria public health costs remain low and the direct payments of consumers are the highest in the European Union with significant Implications on access to health services. We are now talking about social security: the relative share of people at risk of poverty is among the highest in the European Union, increasing further in the years following the crisis. Significantly greater is the risk of poverty in some of the most vulnerable groups in the population of the unemployed and pensioners. Income inequality continues to increase. You later wrote in the report how well we are developing in terms of research and development. About the state which the Council of Ministers itself reported for the development of Bulgaria in 2007 is written: if, at the beginning of the century, Bulgaria is among the leading countries in Central and Eastern Europe according to the indicator of the share of state expenditure intended for research and development, it is now ranked 27th in the European Union, succeeding in getting ahead of only Malta. Further: Bulgaria lags behind other EU member states in terms of digitalising the economy, although we had a commissioner responsible for this in the European Union. Further, because we talk about how we help business and how it develops economically, writes: doing business in the country continues to be hindered by the regulatory framework in areas such as issuing a permit for construction, connection with electricity, bankruptcy and so on. The quality of public investment remains a limiting factor for the competitiveness of the economy. I don't want to go on. There is also for agriculture, which continues to reduce its share in the country's gross added value. The workers are shrinking there, the production is shrinking due to the low productivity of the labor further increasing lag. Not to mention the bad policy that led to the destruction of a quarter of the pigs in Bulgaria. For tourism, the same tragic picture. With regard to energy, where we write how far ahead we are, in the conclusions of this same report from April, it says: Bulgaria continues to be the most carbon intensive Member State. Low resource and in particular energy efficiency remains a leading obstacle to the competitiveness of the economy. Your overrated highway policy has been assessed in the same report: the structure of the road network remains almost unchanged with a slight increase in the share of motorways, which is insufficient to overcome the significant lag in terms of road cover towards the European Union. Bulgaria is behind in the process of transforming its economy from linear to circular and so on. Mr. Chairman, if necessary, extend the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u72	Yeah, extend the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u73	I'm not gonna keep reading this. You read it because your government accepted it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u74	What year?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u75	No, I read it, it's not my grade. This is an assessment of your government. In this regard, this report was adopted in April 2019. It's a little more modern than the one we're looking at right now. As Mr Vigenin paid attention to you, at the end of the year we are looking at national security for 2018. Finally, I'm gonna go with defense. The report states that the Bulgarian Army, the Bulgarian Armed Forces, can partially fulfil their constitutional obligations, which naturally raises the question: and partly, what cannot they do? Once they perform something partially, they can't seem to do anything else. In this regard, please very much, when you next write reports, apart from findings that are largely true as factology, in the Report, to draw those conclusions that were once again drawn by this government at a meeting of the Council of Ministers and not to try to change the picture to present it to us more rosy. Unfortunately, hiding the truth is the ostrich's policy, which, by burying its head, thinks nothing else is visible. Unfortunately, it shines even more like this. For this reason, we will not support this report. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u76	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? We continue with the speeches. Here you are, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u77	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As you have already heard from my colleagues, we will not support the proposed draft national security report. There's something positive about this report. It is that for the first time the topic of corruption has been addressed at institutional level. She has been given some space, though little, in this report. And here ends everything positive about it, related to the fight against corruption. I would like to remind you that corruption is the most significant negative factor in each country in terms of economic growth, political legitimacy and human security. Corruption affects in several ways national security, namely: the liquidation of the rule of law, the breakdown of administrative institutions, the criminalisation of society, the waste of public resources. The fact is that the main risk to national security is the undisclosed and unpunished corruption and it is at the high levels of power. What is clear from the Report and from what we read in it? Is there corruption in Bulgaria? There is. Is there corruption on high levels of power? There is. I will read you only a few facts that are presented in a clear and firm way in the presented report: corruption is large in the state institutions; there is corruption in the conduct of public procurement, even in small public procurement; there is corruption in the provision of services by public institutions; there is corruption in the National Revenue Agency; there is corruption in border crossing points; there is corruption in hospitals. Corruption is everywhere and it is unpunished. Is the fight against corruption effective? The report says it's not effective. According to the report, there is special attention paid to the anti-corruption plans in the State Fund and in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. Ladies and gentlemen, these two institutions in recent months have become known for their corruption scandals. What anti-corruption plans and what effective fight?! She's gone, and soon she'll be gone. What is the only mechanism that is indicated for combating corruption in this report that the government is proposing to us? Increased state of the Directorate-General for Organized Crime and not a word about prevention, and not a word about how the newly adopted Anti-Corruption Act works. Even less for the Anti-Corruption Commission, which has worked and is very quickly left without leadership, as you know what happened to the head of this committee. Does it work effectively? It's not working. Does the report say anything about her? Not a word. Gentlemen in charge, I don't think your pride has worked. Personal favor schemes continue, that's what it says inside. The big corruption scandals continue, and not a word about it. Sustainable Trends This is said in the Corruption Report in Bulgaria. Sustainable trends?! How does that sound? Like widespread corruption and corruption that no one wants to fight. Ladies and gentlemen, in this report you clearly state to our public and to all of us that there is corruption of enormous proportions and that you neither know how nor want to fight it. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u78	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. Are there any lines? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Here you are, dear Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u79	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This, by the way, is perhaps one of the most important documents we should be discussing here in the National Assembly, because national security and its protection and protection are of particular importance for the functioning of the state and all its systems for the normal functioning of socio-economic processes in Bulgaria. What has impressed me for the third time since we discussed the Report? In practice, if we compare the three reports in the past years, we will see that there is no significant difference between them. Moreover, a report over 220 pages is difficult to read so carefully, to see it and to highlight the most important moments that really concern the risks, threats and challenges facing the state and its national security. In this sense, according to art. 7, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System The Council of Ministers shall adopt and submit to the National Assembly an Annual Report. In the set framework of the Law there are basic props to be answered by this report. We see that under the Law we do not have this consistency, and the report does not correspond to the content of the Law and the requirements it should have. This report rather resembles a report by the Council of Ministers on the work done and the data being exported in it is quite logically unrelated, chaoticly served so that the reading Report can obviously be confused in the data it sees in the various spheres of the state. There is no clarity as to what the purpose of the report is, namely: evaluation of the National Security System, what are really the main threats, how we solve them for next year. It has already been said that we are late in discussing the State of National Security Report for 2018, given that this should have happened at the beginning of this year, to take timely measures and to take policies to address the problems that are mentioned there. Unfortunately, we see only findings on the basis of the factology that is given in the Report. There is really no serious analyticity to step on and give the right adequate solutions. That's why we see, in fact, that national security is at a critical level, and I can give you many examples. I can tell you here about cybersecurity. We've been talking for two years about building bodies, building abilities, we need to attract highly qualified experts. And what did we see last year? The collapse of the Trade Register concerning the entire functioning of the state and of the economy. This year we see a serious breakthrough at the National Revenue Agency. Trust in institutions is at the lowest level. Last year, there were protests by prison officials and police officers. In fact, what kind of national security do we, honourable gentlemen, have? I see that you are also particularly interested in the report that we are discussing today, given that none of the ruling majority has expressed an opinion to refute our arguments.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u80	Your time is up, dear Mr. Tsonkov. Please finish your thought. Thank you. Are there any lines? I won't. We continue with speeches. Mr. Radev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, Dear Mr. Krastev and Guests who are here! I will start with what my colleague has completed with the officials, or at least we, the representatives of the government here, have not taken the floor. We've taken the floor with the Report. What do you expect from us? Up until now, I have listened very carefully to all the remarks of the BSP, which you have spoken, and I will take note of them. This is our attitude.. The report. We've written a report, a third in a row, as it was, and we think it's good. There was no interest in national security even the hall wasn't full enough. There wasn't any, because we don't feel that there is no national security. There is national security, the state is calm and people are not so excited about what you are trying to find in the pages of the Report. At the beginning, I would still like to thank the team that has been involved in preparing the report. It is, of course, based on the Defence Status Report, which by the end of each March is presented to the attention of the MPs under the Defence and Armed Forces Act. Thank you to all those who have been involved, again I say, not only to the leaders of Mr. Krastev from the Council of Ministers and Deputy Minister Zaprianov from the Ministry of Defence, for the collected data and collected material. It is very much, here I agree with the opposition's remark about 230 pages are many. Needless details, I agree with that too. And I was impressed with things that didn't make sense to be there, but rather to have some kind of analysis of these data. It will be better for the Report, but these recommendations have been given and, as far as I understand Mr. Krastev has received such recommendations from the representatives of the Presidency, and takes into account them. [[(Voices from BSP for Bulgaria]] This he reported to the Defence Committee. I guess since he says it, it's true. I do not agree, and in the Commission I said it.. The BSP colleagues say: yes, but we will not accept the National Security Report. And then, and now I'm going to repeat it to you, and I said, "Okay, but if you were in our place and you were in charge, what kind of report do you think you'd write?" Someone different? What's so global that it's different inside even if the conclusions are different? There's no way. The administration or those who professionally deal with national security are the same, we only change the nuances of the one in power, the other in power. The nuances, yes, but the report about 90% would have been the same. So I do not accept most of your remarks even by this simple analogy. These experts, these specialists, who in different areas are better than any of us, they are the same. They are even non-party colored, especially in the Ministry of Defense by law. What are the facts? You say we're bragging. Yeah, well, national security is based on some fundamentals and we need to know them. What Mr. Ermenkov says, in this report from 2007 to 2017, yes, but there are the facts from 2007. There was a crisis then in 2008 and gradually things were growing. What are the facts now? Gross domestic product in the last three years has been increased almost three times. I've got my numbers out: 107,975 million. lv. Economic growth 3.1%. You can see that in the middle of 2018 they said: a new degree plus positive gave us. Inflation is 2.6%. Unemployment is below 5.2% "Historical levels close to those in 2008 before the crisis. Which of these global factors do you dislike and are not directly related to national security to say lightly: yes, but we will not support it? You won't support it if it was the Budget Act. It is a political document, perhaps the most political document. And I agree there. And so we react: we disagree, because our policy will not be so in many of the spheres and money we will not give there. But this is about national security, about what you yourself said: few people are interested in it. I stress: they are not interested because there is this national security. These are the facts, ladies and gentlemen. And one more thing: the National Security Ministry is not only the Ministry of Defence, where, of course, and in 2018, together with our IMRO partners, we have made efforts, modernization, for the first time, on a large scale, for the first time in 2018 to purchase fighting equipment and so on, I will not go into details. It's also another thing. It's also internal security, it's migration. Europe is most interested at the moment and is worried about these migration processes. There Bulgaria in 2018, this is indicated in the report in the previous years, but also in 2018, and during the Presidency. I do not agree that there is no direct link between the successful Presidency of the Republic of Bulgaria and national security. There is. There we hit the bell very hard and for the first time our country feels so good in the Balkans, among such well friendly countries. Think back over the years whether this was.. 10, 20, 50. There was no other case. Isn't that national security? What are Bulgaria's relations with Macedonia, with Serbia, with Kosovo, north, south, Greece, Turkey, if you want? We've never been in such a good environment. Even Turkey. Why is there no migration in Bulgaria? Did you know that the capacity of these 5160 people of the State Agency for Refugees is currently filled in over 1,100 people. It is facing closure literally in quotes because there is potential danger and these migrants are standing in Turkey. Did you know that Lesbos, these days the data came out, 5,000 people are camping only on the island of Lesbos, currently over 10,000 and the Greeks are wondering what to do, where to go these migrants to Greece. Did you hear that in Bulgaria? And I remember very well the loud cries from the opposition for Decree No 208 to not have it, how to have it, what to revise it, a service government. Don't forget these things. This is also an element of national security. And that's where GERB did it. And another accent to complete the corruption. Here you spoke, some of your colleagues stopped for corruption, and especially one of the ladies. You forget some things very quickly, and I will remind you of them all the time. GERB comes to power and makes legislation usually where there are weaknesses. And I say immediately: national security is usually associated with the services. In the services, the four laws and one set-up adopted him GERB in the first government. Now you're talking about corruption. Who passed the Law on the Fight against Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegal Property in 2017? GERB was, honourable Members! Who set up the committees? How successful they work from here on out will show quality. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] GERB was, honourable Members! Supported by our coalition partners, of course. That's what we do. How successful are we fighting and are there corruption in Bulgaria? Of course there is. And where is there no corruption? The question is what are the levels and this is also indicated in the Report. I can't disagree with the fact that I wanted to, but I have also been involved in writing such reports, it is very difficult to make a short, clear conclusion, even saying. It's hard work, but you could say something like that in that direction. And here I agree yes, we need to improve the fighting of the material and a slightly more synthesized presentation of what we think about the state of national security for last year. I do not agree with one another your thesis that the National Assembly, you see, cannot only accept reports and put it on the table, I think Mr. Vigenin said it. If we did the opposite and didn't do what we do now, the committees, comments on all the committees, we discuss it, then we discuss it here, we draw conclusions, we can change the legislation ourselves, or we can pressure the government to do it, and we start interfering, then we will not be a controlling authority, we will become part of the process. Every government will say: yes, but you changed some things there, you changed them, now what are you complaining about the new report, and things have become as you said. No, we just control and tell them what we don't agree with, but we shouldn't go deeper into this process. We control the executive power and Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic. My colleagues from GERB and I will personally support the Government Report with these remarks, some of which we accept. And I remain personally confused that one of the great political forces so unpardonably will reject the National Security Report of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u82	Thank you, Mr. Radev. - What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u83	Line!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u84	A line? But you don't have time in the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u85	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u86	Personal explanation? You were not mentioned in any negative context. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please, Mr. Ermenkov, but don't go outside, please, beyond the limits of the personal explanation. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u87	Quite well-meaning. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take personal consideration that Mr. Radev accused me that I have spoken critically about the condition of Bulgaria. I'm just reminding you, I didn't talk. I've quoted your document to your government, so don't accuse me of things I didn't do. I, if I had to be critical, would be much more critical, much more specific with all those things that I could say and about why there are no immigrants in Bulgaria. Perhaps this is GERB's only contribution to the fact that we do not have emigrants, that such is our economic development, that immigrants do not want to live in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u88	You're already going outside...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u89	But I'm not gonna say that. So please, Mr. Radev, next time I talk, don't put other people's thoughts in my mouth. I was quoting not my opinion. I quote what was written in that report on the socio-economic situation of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. We continue with the speeches. You have the floor, dear Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This report has been written for several months by a working group with representatives of all institutions related to national security, and it gives a very clear and realistic assessment of the achieved in the past year and the state of national security. Yes, a lot of criticism has been heard from this tribune on one or another subject related to national security, but we should note several extremely important and serious achievements that have taken place since 2017. After the formation of the current government, a very clear and specific programme related to the topic of Security was adopted, related to the topic of National Security. In 2018, significant successes in countering smuggling must be noted. Let us remind ourselves that all the measures and actions that have been taken since 2015 have resulted in an extremely serious result. We achieve levels that are not typical of old democracies and Member States of the European Union. We started from levels of 25 and 30% just four years ago, and now results are being observed and these results are not given by this government. These results are given by independent bodies that do their research. And these results show that the level of cigarette smuggling in Bulgaria is now about 5%. Once again, only four years ago, the levels were five to six to seven times higher. It is extremely important to note that thanks to the measures taken by the Bulgarian government and in terms of strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Interior, they have given a very clear result. We have a very serious increase in crime detection, especially with regard to crimes against the individual. To conclude, I would like to draw attention to this section in the Report, which gives a very clear, concrete and detailed picture of the state of road safety. In 2018, it should be noted that accidents, victims and victims of road accidents decreased on average by 15%. The victims from 710 in 2017 are 612, and you know that these traffic accidents cause extremely serious problems and affect many Bulgarian families. Let me finish with this: The report is realistic, analytical and gives a real assessment of the state of national security and not, as the negotiating colleagues have said, that we do not see absolutely no analytical assessment or know what the state of national security is. I will call on you to conclude by supporting the decision to adopt the Annual Report, and this practice must continue, as only in this way can we give ourselves a real account of the state of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. Are there any lines? Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Dear Mr. Krastev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u93	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, I would like to thank you for the in-depth discussions in the Standing Committees and here in the Chamber. I would like to express my gratitude for the careful reading, for the support expressed and also for the recommendations made to the report. I need to make some clarification. The first of them is that the report is in line with the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System and was reviewed in the Security Council, where the representatives of the Presidency of the Republic made some proposals to us, reflected in the subsequent work on the Report. The first Presidency of the Council of the European Union on the part of the Republic of Bulgaria was the reason to expand the report on our country's activities within the European Union precisely from the point of view of this Presidency. We couldn't ignore it, and it has a direct link to national security. With regard to the texts on corruption. During the preparation of the Report, I personally made a few consultations on the inclusion of texts concerning the implementation of the Law by the committee specially elected for it. It came to the conclusion that the executive could not or would not have been wrong in its report to include information, assessments of the activity of an independent body of the executive. I can certainly agree with the thesis that there is no nuance, no aspiration to hide any problem in our country. In each section, the first and main, concerning the state of national security, has a problem and is defined. In preparing the report, we strive to have it ready within the first half of the year and on 11 July it was submitted to the National Assembly. The practice shows that from the very beginning of the drafting of this type of document there is no Annual Report on the state of national security that was submitted before July. You are best aware that the need to adopt certain laws as a matter of priority in July postponed the discussion of this report in practice. However, the following should be taken into account: the debates on it are important, not only to assess the specific policy, but also to evaluate and give recommendations on trends that concern not just the next one-year period, but a longer period. It has been said that there is no clear assessment of what is the state of affairs in some of the committees this has also been noted. I would agree with the thesis that it is very difficult to say with just one sentence what is the state.. good, stable, unstable. Over the past few years, we have also made an attempt to give such an assessment in the motto of the Report in the introduction and in the final part. The motto here is: Economic and financial stability, social policy oriented, successful leadership in the EU, overcoming geopolitical challenges. I believe he and I are expressing our assessment of the state of national security. Finally, I will conclude by saying that the debates in the Standing Committees and in plenary are extremely important for the preparation process of the Report, because they are a guide for the Working Group, which will prepare the 2019 Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-12.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Krastev. I'll introduce you to the draft decision: Project! DECISION adopting the Annual Report on the State of National Security in 2018 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018 I put to the vote the draft decision read. Vote 154 MPs: 97 against 47, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. That's how we complete the program. Messages: At the Club of the National Representative, our colleague, Georgi Markov, will present his book on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the official opening of Hungary's border with Austria. All MPs are invited to the presentation of the book. Parliamentary Control "September 13th, Friday: 1. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer two questions from the MPs Pavel Shopov; and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov. 2. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer a question from the MP Violeta Zheleva. 3. Culture Minister Boel Banov will answer a question from the MPs Ivan Chenchev, Chavdar Velinov and Alexander Simov. 4. The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer four questions from the MPs Manol Genov; Desislav Chukolov; Violeta Jeleva and Nikola Dinkov; and Stanislav Vladimirov; and one question from the MPs Atanas Stoyanov, Alexander Siddi and Kalin Popovski. 5. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer a question from the MPs Ivan Chenchev and Georgi Gokov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva to a question by MP Stanislav Stanilov; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov to two questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov; and Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question by the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov; - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to four questions from the MPs Pavel Shopov; Daniel Yordanov and Krasimir Yankov; Stanislav Vladimirov and Lyubomir Bonev; and Nikolay Tishev; and to three questions with a written answer from the MPs Hristo Grudev; Kristina Sidorova; and Georgi Svilenski, Dimitar Danchev and Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov of a question by the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov; - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to five questions from the MPs Valentina Naydenova; Teodora Georgieva; Georgi Mihaylov; two questions; and Dzhevdet Chakarov; - Minister of Environment and Waters Neno Dimov to a question from the National Representative Stanislav Vladimirov; and to four questions with written answer from the MPs Hristo Grudev; Kristina Sidorova; Pencho Milkov; and Stanislav Vladimirov and Lyubomir Bonev. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a question from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev; - a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva to the Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov; - three questions from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova; - a question from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov; - a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev. Due to a pre-planned international commitment, the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. The next regular plenary session shall be on 13 September 2019 at 9.00 in accordance with the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
