ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] I will introduce you to the draft work programme of the National Assembly for the period 26 June 2019 including: "1." Annual report on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council for 2018. It was submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council. 2. Report on the activities of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council for 2018. It was introduced by the Supreme Judicial Council. 3. Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the courts in 2018. It was introduced by the Supreme Judicial Council. 4. Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the administrative courts in 2018. It was introduced by the Supreme Judicial Council. 5. Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities in 2018. It was implemented by the Supreme Judicial Council. 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. It was introduced by the National Representative Valentin Nikolov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on Thursday 27 June 2019. 7. First vote on the Marks and Geographical Indications Bill. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on Thursday 27 June 2019. 8. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on sowing and planting material. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on Thursday. 9. The bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Tourism of the Republic of Bulgaria and the World Organisation for Tourism at the UN on the implementation of the Second International Congress of World Civilizations and the Historical Routes of the SOT. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on Friday 28 June 2019. 10. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the so proposed programme. They voted 175 MPs: 144, against 2, abstention 29. The motion is accepted. I'll introduce you to: ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 500-NS Sofia, 24 June 2019 on the announcement of Ms. Anna Nikolaeva Slavova as MP from the Twenty-Fiveth Election Region "Sofia" With an I.V. letter. No НС-02-12 of 21 June 2019 in the CEC was received a decision of the National Assembly of 21 June 2019 with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of Petar Boykov Vitanov as a MP from the twenty-fifth election district of Sofia, erected from the list of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria in the 44th National Assembly. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, para. 1, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announcing Anna Nikolaeva Slavova as MP in the 44th National Assembly from the list of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria Next: ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 501-NS Sofia, 24 June 2019 on the announcement of Smilyana Nikolova Niva-Krsteva as MP from the twenty-nineth election district of Haskovo With a letter in my letter. No НС-02-12 of 21 June 2019 in the Central Election Commission was received a decision of the National Assembly of 21 June 2019 with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of Elena Nikolova Yoncheva as MP from the twenty-nineth electoral district of Haskovski, erected from the list of coalitions of BSP for Bulgaria in the 44th National Assembly. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, para. 1, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code Central Election Commission. HAS DECIDED She declared Smilyana Nikolova-Krsteva as a Member of Parliament in the 44th National Assembly from the list of coalition BSP for Bulgaria. Please invite the newly elected MPs to take an oath. Please, colleagues, stand up. Come on in and repeat after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u2	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u3	We continue with messages. Bills and draft Decisions 19 June 2019: Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. It was introduced by the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Energy Committee as the lead. Draft decision of the National Assembly to instruct the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov to draw up an annex to the agreement for friendship, good neighbourliness and cooperation between Bulgaria and Macedonia. It was introduced by the MPs Volen Siderov, Desislav Chukolov, Stanislav Stanilov and Pavel Shopov. It has been allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Veterinary Activity Act. It was introduced by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Bill amending and supplementing the Water Act. The representatives of the National Assembly are Iskren Veselinov, Alexander Nenkov, Emil Hristov, Tanner Ali, Georgi Kolev and Plamen Hristov. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process in 2018. Importer is the Supervisory Board of the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions. He was brought in by the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2018. It was submitted by the Communications Regulation Commission. It is allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. A bill amending the Railway Transport Act. He was brought in by the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. The total number of documents received shall be eight. Messages: On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I inform the Members of the National Assembly that on 25 June 2019 a Decree No 149 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 101 of the Constitution, by which the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast was adopted by the National Assembly on 13 June 2019. It is entrusted to the leading Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government to report to the MPs the President's decree and the reasons for it. An updated programme for the audit work of the Court of Auditors for 2019. The programme was submitted by letter No 924-00-4 from the President of the Court of Auditors. The material is provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to point one: ANNUAL REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE HIGH COURT COUNCIL FOR 2018 Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, you have the floor to present the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please vote for admission to the Chamber of Mr. Boyan Magdalinchev................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. Vote 116 MPs: for 115, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Panov, Mrs. Tochkova, Mr. Cholakov, Mr. Magdalenchev and Mr. Tsatsarov to the Chamber. [[Reply from MP Hamid Hamid.]] You may present the Opinion, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "COMMODITY" on the Annual Activity Report of the Supreme Judicial Council 2018, No 911-00-3, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 31 May 2019. At its meeting on 13 June 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs examined the Annual Activity Report of the Supreme Judicial Council for 2018, No 911-00-3, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 31 May 2019. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Boyan Magdalinchev from the Supreme Judicial Council and the Ministry of Justice Mr. Danail Kirilov, Minister. The report on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council for 2018 was presented by Mr. Magdalinchev, who noted that the same takes into account what was achieved during the first year of the term of office of the Supreme Judicial Council. By ensuring continuity of the good practices of the previous 7th Chamber, implementing its powers, this Chamber shall focus its efforts on establishing an independent, impartial, effective and transparent judicial system subject to the public interest. He pointed out that the report reflects separately the activities of the Judicial and Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council, as well as of the Standing Committees to them, according to the powers of the relevant College. The report contains five separate structural compartments. Information and data on the management and administration of the judiciary, which includes human resources management in the judiciary, chamber and competition activities of the Commission on attestations and contests, financial and material resources management, including the management of the judiciary budget, the management of judicial buildings, e-Justice and professional qualifications, are set out in the first part. In 2018, the Commission held 26 meetings in which decisions were discussed and adopted in several guidelines: initiating legislative changes in the part concerning the rules on local and family jurisdiction in a particular category of cases, monitoring and analysis of the workload of courts with proposals for amendments and addition to the Rules for the assessment of the workload of judges, in the nomenclature of statistical codes and other internal organisational measures. The report also reported 8 regular meetings of the Commission "Judiciary card and workload of prosecutors and investigators" of the Prosecutors' College. As the most significant and large-scale activity of the Commission and the Prosecutor's College, the reorganisation and optimization of district prosecutors is noted by creating a uniform model. According to the established model for optimization of the judicial map of district prosecutors, 11 district prosecutors have been closed since 1 January 2019. With regard to the work of the Committee on Appeals and Competitions at the Judicial College of the Supreme Judicial Council, the Report states that for the reporting period the number of courts has been optimized and 8 posts reduced by one body of the judiciary and opened in another, one position has been transformed within one body of the judiciary and 12 new positions have been opened. In 2018, a decision of the Committee on Appeals and Competitions of the Judicial College opened a total of 353 procedures for attestations and the College of Judges conducted and completed 176 procedures in total. The report also noted the initiated amendments to the Law on the Judiciary in the field of the attestation and acceleration of competition procedures, as well as the initiation of legislative changes aimed at reducing the number of opening procedures for extraordinary attestations. During the reporting period, the Committee on Appeals and Competitions to the Prosecutors' College of the Supreme Judicial Council held 41 working sessions. On a proposal from the Commission, the Prosecutor's College has announced 10 competitions in the judiciary authorities for a total of 101 vacant posts. For the purpose of redistribution and optimization of the state numbers a total of 44 posts have been reduced and 44 new positions in different bodies of the judiciary have been opened. In 2018, a total of 261 procedures were opened by a decision of the Commission on the attestations and contests of the Prosecutor's College, and the Prosecutor's College conducted and completed 161 procedures in total. The report contains detailed information and data from the work of the committees "Judicial Administration" at the Judicial and Prosecutor's College. The two committees shall hold joint meetings on decisions to optimize the constitutional number of the judiciary as part of the policy of the Supreme Judicial Council on Human Resources Management. In connection with the management of the budget and the judicial buildings Mr. Magdalenchev added that the report contains specific information on the activities of the Commission "Budget and finance" and the budget of the judiciary in the financial year 2018 amounts to 114,9 million. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. In 2018, the Supreme Judicial Council continued its efforts to introduce e-Justice. The information from the judicial management system is centralized in the Single e-Justice Portal, continuing work on projects related to electronic services and e-Justice under the Operational Programme. During the reporting period, an agreement was signed with the National Revenue Agency on ensuring access of judicial authorities to the electronic services of the National Revenue Agency. The second part of the report reflects activities related to increasing the effectiveness of ethical regulation and disciplinary process. In 2018, the Committee on Professional Ethics of the Judicial College and the President of the Commission examined a total of 570 files on complaints and alerts of citizens. The total number of files examined on complaints and alerts by citizens of the Professional Ethics Commission of the Prosecutor's College is 98 pieces. In the framework of the Commission's disciplinary action for disciplinary action and interaction with the SJC Inspectorate of the Court of Justice, a significant reduction of disciplinary proceedings against judges is reported. In 2017, the total number of proposals submitted for disciplinary proceedings was 42 and in 2018 was 12 and a total of 10 disciplinary cases were formed. 7 disciplinary proceedings have been completed from previous years. During the reporting period, the Prosecutor's College, on a proposal from the Commission for disciplinary action and interaction with the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council, has initiated 25 disciplinary proceedings, indicating an increase in the same cases compared to the previous 2017. The completed disciplinary proceedings are 11, including from previous years. The third part of the report contains information and data on legal and institutional issues and information on the legal activities of the Supreme Judicial Council. There is a tendency to increase the activities of the Committee on Legal and Institutional Issues relating to the drafting and adoption of regulations in view of the legal delegation provided for by the Law on the Judiciary. The Commission has examined and delivered opinions on drawn up agreements, internal and other rules, as well as 6 opinions on constitutional matters. The last two parts of the report contain data on international activity and information on progress in implementing the Judicial Communication Strategy 2014 Mr. Magdalinchev pointed out that during the international activity during the period covered by the report the measures under the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism were taken into account, the projects of the Supreme Council related to multilateral international cooperation, data on international and interinstitutional cooperation. With regard to the implementation of the Judicial Communication Strategy 2014-2020, the report notes that during the reporting period all communication activities are financed entirely from the budget of the Supreme Judicial Council. This part of the Report focuses on the actions relating to the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation in the activities of the courts and on the publication of judicial acts, as well as on the activities set out in the Action Plan of the Supreme Judicial Council. The report takes into account the progress made in the Communication Strategy of the Supreme Judicial Council for the third time. The development and personnel support of the courts is noted with public relations, sustainability in the conduct of the educational and information campaign "Open doors" in the judiciary, in the professional preparation of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council, magistrates and employees in the field of public administration, improved interaction with the media, non-governmental and word organizations. In the discussion of the Report took part the People's Representative Filip Popov, who expressed a positive assessment of the work of the Supreme Judicial Council and pointed out that from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and will support the submitted Report on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018. After the debates held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 16 votes for the Council of Ministers, without votes, supported the Annual Report on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council for 2018, No 911-03, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 31 May 2019 and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision on it with the following wording: Project! DECISION adopting the Annual Activity Report of the Supreme Judicial Council for 2018 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts Annual Activity Report of the Supreme Judicial Council for 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Dear Mr. Magdalenchev, would you care to take an attitude? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u8	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister of Justice, Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Guests! Allow me, on behalf of the Supreme Judicial Council, to briefly present a few key points in the work of the Supreme Judicial Council. The report of the President of the Legal Commission, made before you, objectively reflected the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council in 2018. In addition to what has been said, I will also mention that the Supreme Judicial Council shall exercise its constitutional powers laid down in the provision of art. 130a of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, according to which the Supreme Judicial Council after the constitutional changes in 2015 carried out its activities through Plenum and two colleagues. The main powers of the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council are regulated in the provision of art. 130a, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, under this provision, the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council adopted a draft budget of the judiciary, adopted a decision to terminate the term of elected member of the Supreme Judicial Council, organised the qualification of judges, prosecutors and investigators, decided on organisational issues common to the judiciary, heard and adopted the annual reports under art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution, manages the real estate of the judiciary, makes proposals to the President of the Republic for appointment and release of the Presidents of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Supreme Administrative Court and the Prosecutor General and exercises other powers determined by law. The activities of the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council are regulated and regulated by the provisions of art. 30, para. 2 of the Law on the Judiciary. In accordance with art. 130, para. 5 of the Constitution, the Colleges of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office shall carry out the following activities in accordance with their purpose by appointing, promoting, transferring and dismissing judges, prosecutors and investigators, making periodic attestations of the same and the administrative leaders, imposing disciplinary penalties, lowering and dismissing the magistrates and administrative directors, appointing and dismissing the administrative directors of the judicial authorities, resolving questions about the organisation of the activities of the relevant system of judicial authorities, exercising other powers provided for in the Law, namely in the provision of Art. 30, para. 5 of the Law on the Judiciary are detailed in detail the main activities carried out by the two colleges. The activities of Plenum and the Colleges of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be assisted by committees. These are permanent and temporary committees. The Standing Committees shall have auxiliary functions and shall assist the collective administrative bodies in carrying out their main powers and functions. The Standing Committees at the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council are: Commission "Budget and Finance", Committee on Property Management. In accordance with art. 37, para. 9 of the Law on the Judiciary, the activities of the two colleges are supported by a Permanent Committee on Appeals and Competitions and the Committee on Professional Ethics of the Two Colleges. Other Standing Committees at the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council provided for in the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the Supreme Judicial Council and its Administration are: Commission on Legal Affairs, Committee on Professional Qualifications and Information Technologies, Commission on the Judicial Card, Loading and Judicial Statistics. The Budget and Finance Committee mainly supports the activities of the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council in the management of the judiciary budget. It is the main aid authority of the Plenum in this direction. The Commission consists of a Parisian principle of six members by three representatives of the Prosecutor's Office and the Judicial College. During the period 2018 the Commission "Budget and finance" managed, distributed and redistributed the budget to the judiciary for revenue amounting to 114,9 million. BGN, and the costs of the project............................................................................................. 400,000. lv. 47 meetings were held at which 1446 points were examined. The draft decree of the Council of Ministers for the co-ordination procedure under the Draft Decision of the Council of Ministers for the adoption of the expenditure ceilings of the chief authorising officers with budgets is agreed, the distribution of the budgets of 186 bodies of the judiciary under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018. During the same period, the Commission has approved more than 2100 adjustments to the budgets of the judiciary bodies, capital expenditure amounting to 14 million. $100,000. lv. The Commission adopted the consolidated Annual Financial Statement, the Court of Justice's budget and balance sheet on 31 December 2017 and the Court of Auditors' audit report on the validation of the Court of Justice's Annual Financial Statement and the Supreme Judicial Council for 2017. According to the management of the real estate of the judiciary it is carried out by the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council. The main supporting body of the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council in the management of property and property of the judiciary is the Committee on Property Management. The Commission issued 187 reports and reports in 2018 regarding the allocation, use of the real estate granted to the judiciary. In the same year, the Property Management Commission submitted 120 draft decisions to the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council to authorise the signing of contracts and anexes related to the management of the property of the judiciary, to initiate procedures for the acquisition of properties before the Council of Ministers and the regional governors under the State Property Act. On the organisation and management of the judiciary, the Committee on Property Management examined 125 reports and reports with proposals for a decision before the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council. The Commission is a permanent support body at the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council. It shall support the same in the decision-making related to the development of Plenum projects and decisions in order to implement e-Justice, compulsory qualification courses for increasing the qualifications of judges, prosecutors and investigators, organise the qualifications of judges, prosecutors and investigators themselves and assist the Supreme Judicial Council in implementing the information strategy of the judicial authorities, implementing the information systems and electronic communication with the judicial authorities. In accordance with its powers, the Commission held 30 meetings in 2018. ECLI - number of published legal acts in the central web-based interface for the publication of judicial acts developed by the Supreme Judicial Council and established connectivity with the ECLI search interface on the E-Justice portal of the European Commission shall be introduced in implementation of a project co-financed by the European Commission. The Commission continued its work on the project "Creating a model for optimization of the judicial map of the courts and prosecutions" and for the development of the Single Information System of the courts under the Treaty for direct grant under the Operational Programme "Good management" and a public contract with the subject of the development of the Single Information System of the courts was carried out and a contractor was elected. The Committee on Legal Affairs is a permanent body of the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council. The same one in 2018 met 33 times and examined 410 points. The Committee on Legal Affairs has carried out actions on the drafting and adoption by the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council of eight regulatory acts and has delivered an opinion on 14 draft legislative acts. A joint meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Commission was held in 2018. 416 paragraphs 2 and 7 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and Art. 64 of the Law on the Judiciary for the publication of the acts rendered by the courts. On the basis of the discussions, it is decided by Protocol No 1 of 15 January 2018 to request an authentic interpretation by the legislator on the application of the provisions of art. Paragraphs 2 and 7 of the PPC and Art. 416. Paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Law on the Judiciary. The Committee on Professional Ethics of the Judicial College is also a permanent supporting body to it. It was created on the basis of art. 37, para. 9 of the Law on the Judiciary. The Commission shall consist of five members of the College of Judges. In 2018, 37 meetings were held and 140 opinions were drawn up on the moral qualities held by candidates participating in various competitions for office in the judicial authorities, of which: 42 for administrative officials, 20 for alternates of administrative directors, 10 for transfer and promotion, 6 for initial appointment, and 62 for junior judges. The Committee on Professional Ethics of the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council prepared in 2018. 163 opinions on the moral qualities held by candidates in competitions for office in the judicial authorities, 52 opinions on the appointment of administrative directors or deputy executives, 5 counts for relocation and promotion in office, 20 pieces for initial appointment and 86 for candidates for junior prosecutors. The total number of complaints and alerts examined by the Commission on professional ethics of the Prosecutor's College for the reporting period is 98 and those addressed only by the President of the Commission. In 2018, the Chairs of the Committee on Professional Ethics of the Colleges of the Supreme Judicial Council addressed 161 signals. The Supreme Judicial Council of the Court of Justice's Board of Appeals and the competitions of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Court of Justice during the reporting period have conducted a total attestation for six contests in the judicial authorities to hold 63 free posts in which 1035 candidates are admitted. 50 competition procedures have been announced for the election of administrative leaders in the judiciary bodies, 19 interviews with eligible candidates have been held. The College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council appointed administrative directors of 16 judicial bodies, 22 alternates to the administrative directors and 23 magistrates to perform the functions of administrative directors. The Commission for Appeals and Competitions at the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Council for the reporting period has announced ten contests in the judicial authorities for 101 vacant positions. On a proposal from the Commission, a total of 44 procedures have been announced for the election of administrative directors of the judiciary bodies, administrative heads are appointed in 15 bodies, 22 members of the administrative heads, and 17 magistrates for the functions of administrative directors. In 2018, the Board of Appeals and Competitions of the Judicial College and the Prosecutors' College opened a total of 614 and carried out 357 procedures for the attestation of judges, prosecutors and investigators, four assessments under art. 28 of former members of the Supreme Judicial Council. In 2018, the Committee on Appeals and Competitions of the Two Colleges of the Supreme Judicial Council examined a total of 287 proposals to raise the place in the upper rank, of which 132 of judges and 155 of prosecutors and investigators. The Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the College for the Implementation of the Judicial Tribunal Communication Strategy on its proposal in 2018. The Court of Justice revealed another 18 stats for taking up the position of the public relations in the district courts where there were none to serve and the district courts in the judicial district of the respective district court in them, as well as four official numbers for this position in the busier administrative courts. On a proposal from the Commission, the Judicial Administration of the Prosecutor's Office of the former Judicial Council adopted changes to the Classifier of the positions in the administration of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria relevant for the new amount of minimum wage for the country, updating the remuneration for the posts in the administration on 1 April 2018 and the changes in the Law on the Judiciary. On a proposal from the Commission, the following decisions have been adopted by the Prosecutor's College: - an increase in state numbers in the structures of the Prosecutor's Office by 55.3% of the state figures, 53 of which are provided by reducing the number of prosecutors with lower workload and a higher proportion between judicial officers and magistrates; - has provided 11 positions for the post of expert criminalist in the Department of the National Investigation Service for Mobile Centers for Investigation in the prosecutions in the country, which will serve the regions of the five districts of appeal in Sofia, Burgas, Varna, Veliko Tarnovo and Plovdiv; - increased the specialized prosecutor's office by reducing the number of the structures of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with the extension of the competence of the special prosecutor's office provided for by the amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure; - determine the number and types of positions of judicial officers in the administration of district and district prosecutions and newly opened territorial divisions, as from 1 January 2019, following a decision of the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council to optimize the structure of district prosecutions with which they were closed as of 1 January 2019, 11 district prosecutors. The Court of Justice of the Supreme Judicial Council on its proposal in 2018 to the Ministry of Finance, as a co-ordinating unit under the European Union Structural Reform Support Programme, has submitted a request for inclusion in the list of prioritized requests from 2017 for support under the Programme of a measure subject to the Reform of the Ordered Procedure under the GPC through the establishment of a system for centralised electronic processing of orders. During the reporting period, the same committee initiated a survey among the country's active mediation centres on the need for legislative changes to introduce mandatory mediation as a means of reducing the workload of courts. As the most effective measure to deal with the uneven workload between the individual courts in the country in 2018, the Commission carried out three relocation procedures under art. 194, para. 1 of the Law on the Judiciary. On a proposal from the same committee, the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council on the grounds of art. 194, para. 1 of the Law on the Judiciary reappointed 7 judges at the Sofia District Court in the City Department, 6 judges at the Sofia City Council in the City Hall and two judges at the Specialized Criminal Court. The Supreme Judicial Council on 16 May 2018 discussed the opinions received by the Administrative Directors of the Prosecutor's Office regarding the introduction of a uniform model for optimization of district prosecutors. On the basis of the in-depth analysis, a decision of the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council of 19 July 2018 was finalized, according to which 11 district prosecutors were closed, creating territorial divisions in their place. The actions taken eliminate the uneven workload of magistrates within the respective district prosecutor's office and optimize the magistrate's number and number of administration. During the reporting period, as a scope of the Commission's activities, a total of 25 disciplinary proceedings under art. 316 of the Law on the Judiciary, 19 of the proposals were made by the respective administrative manager, 4 by the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council and 2 by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. There are a total of 13 orders of administrative leaders to impose disciplinary punishment........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In 2018, a total of 10 disciplinary proceedings were initiated against the judges and 6 of the proposals were made by the relevant administrative manager, one of the superior administrative supervisor and 3 by the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council. Seven disciplinary proceedings have been completed. A total of 6 orders of administrative leaders for the imposition of disciplinary punishment are reviewed. In 2018, three joint meetings were held on 12 February 2018, 26 April 2018 and 5 December 2018, between the members of the Committees on disciplinary action and interaction with the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council and the Prosecutors' Colleges with representatives of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council and the Ministry of Justice. In 2018, a total of 80 acts of planning and complex inspections of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council were examined by the two committees to the Colleges; 60 were carried out in district, district, military and administrative courts; verification at the Supreme Court of Cassation; and 20 inquiries in district, district, military and appeals prosecutions. A total of 78 inquiries carried out by the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council on Signals were examined and 14 of the checks were carried out in district and district prosecutions and 64 in district, district and administrative courts. In fulfillment of his obligation under art. 60 m, para. 2 of the Law on the Judicial Authority the Commissions "Disciplinary activity and interaction with the Inspectorate of the Judicial and Prosecutor's Colleges of the Supreme Judicial Council of each six months analyze the data on the cases found by the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council within a reasonable time and the information received by the Ministry of Justice about the compensations paid under delayed justice. Dear Members of Parliament, the Supreme Judicial Council will continue to do everything possible to optimize the administration of justice, to achieve the objectives of judicial reform and to develop the law and enforce the Law, defending the independence of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Magdalenchev. Colleagues, I am opening the debates on the annual report on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council for 2018. Mr. Shopov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, fellow lawyers, judges, prosecutors! Almost always in this report, I make a statement by trying to speak politically and to bring the dry figures of the reports we have heard, and this is how it is done in one report in another plan, to draw the relevant conclusions as to where we are with the judiciary, whether the work of the Supreme Judicial Council is satisfactory, because the Supreme Judicial Council depends mostly on the work of the judiciary. I am not a politician myself, I am not a member of the parliament, I am a career judge because there can be no profession a politician and a deputy. Each of us has a major profession, and this is my profession, and I pretend to know the system well in detail and the people who work in it. I have always made positive statements in favour of the work of the Supreme Judicial Council all the years I was in the Bulgarian National Assembly and I went out on this stand. That's because over the years, I've found that this is probably the most preserved system in our society. The others have been broken down, broken down, driven to a sad state because it is very easy to break the economy by privatizing not per kilogram but in tons, in dozens of tons, and handing out to blue red bandits, or vice versa to reddish blue bandits, businesses, banks. [[Noise and line.]] Not by name. It is the work of the gentlemen of the justice system of the prosecution, of the court. It's very easy to break down healthcare once you've put it on the market, because that's how colonial masters ordered it. But this system has remained preserved because, by its nature, it is by its nature a conservative system, despite the frantic attempts, I say again, to the colonial masters and liberals in Bulgaria to kill it too. Inside they have always worked, I have been with them, my colleagues are those who are currently supreme judges or prosecutors from the Prosecutor General's Office, or on the premises are prosecutors in the Attorney General's Office, or supreme judges who are worthy people and who will never succumb to the names and here the corruption in which so many are being blamed, but this is mantra. They're being blamed to create the impression of a non-working judiciary, of a bad job of the Supreme Judicial Council, to pour ashes on our heads, to justify ourselves, and, you see, let's now make changes in one direction that will be fatal and that will change the judiciary. But thank God this isn't happening. Experiences are ten-year-olds in this regard. Whatever you did to throw people out, to target themselves, to spit on people from the system, to be blamed for them. This is very easy when it comes to tens of thousands of cases each year, when solving which there are many dissatisfied. Many people can be hooked and covered by this demagogy, by this criticism to create discontent, and this is what is relied on. In recent years, these attempts have been particularly intensified. We saw magistrates who showed up to protest. It's a scary thing! Can you imagine the high magistrates of protests?! Thank God, it was very revealing that a magistrate came out in Plovdiv and spoke to a protest. There were more in Sofia, but here a foreign foundation, led by a foreign embassy, from a foreign country, by liberals in Bulgaria, has thrown a lot of money. It didn't organize courses here and there with a pleasant time, it didn't throw fake these, false accusations, temptations to society how this system would become very nice if you accepted this model that we present to you. A huge role in stopping these disgusting crawls has played the compositions of the Supreme Judicial Council in its various publications so far. I would especially like to congratulate and pay tribute to the members of the Supreme Judicial Council in its previous edition, who have suffered many burdens, to which many accusations have been made and who have heroically endured. And once the Supreme Judicial Council was completely replaced. During Kostov's reign, you remember, before the deadline, the Supreme Judicial Council was liquidated in its composition, which was unreliable to the then ruling masters. Thank God this did not happen in recent years in the following editions of the Supreme Judicial Council, which for me is also a guarantee. This stability, which the members of the Supreme Judicial Council had in the years, gave them the opportunity to be adamant, to resist the blows, the temptations. I will not dwell on the numbers that were exported. Specifically, the work of the two colleagues of the Judicial and Prosecutor's Office. Personally, it was a stupid thing for me to share the Supreme Judicial Council with a prosecutor and a judicial college, and in part, and in the end, both parties are doing the same thing. It was one of the compromises under the blows of those powers I'm talking about. There was some flexibility in society: let's do it, some people to be satisfied, that was the reason we took account somewhere in Brussels or elsewhere, I don't know. It was a mistake, but unfathomable. I would not say that this resulted in severe consequences and the Supreme Judicial Council continued in that positive direction in which it worked. There was talk of disciplinary proceedings here a few minutes ago, about law enforcement. The Supreme Judicial Council in its various publications, including during the last year, continued to work on the most important topics which are: the completion of the staff of the courts in all their manifestations, the prosecution, the financing and the funding work to a great extent of the Supreme Judicial Council. I know how the representing Supreme Judicial Council is now Mr. Magdalenchev, and before that others before him are fighting in the Financial Commission for the funds to be allocated to the judiciary. And here, this system, we can say almost or with satisfaction, can always be desired more, is satisfied with material resources as payment, such as the necessary costs of functioning the system, such as judicial buildings, which used to be a problem and was increasingly questioned because there was underfinancing and problems with judicial buildings. Now things are pretty advanced and solved. But when we are talking about this, I would recommend to the members of the Supreme Judicial Council when they assess the moral and professional qualities of candidates for one position or another, we politicians are debtors in this respect, because here always, in spite of the will of the majority, something is happening and we cannot give you this base to pay attention to the masons and liberals who can easily be recognized because, by assumption, they are opponents of this system, as well as any constitutional and legal order in this country. These faces and these candidates, being inside, appear moles and they create those excitements that were so up-to-date in society and made so much noise about a year ago, so you have to be careful about that. We would continue this topic to infinity because the problems of the judiciary are as many as the problems of society itself, because there is no problem in society that is not touched and not assigned to the judiciary, to the tasks of the Supreme Judicial Council. I will conclude by saying that, with satisfaction and with absolute conviction, I will vote for the Report of the Supreme Judicial Council and I call on colleagues from all parliamentary groups, including the opposition, to them: colleagues, do not exercise excessive opposition, vote for this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, Dear Mr. Magdalenchev, Dear Guests, Presidents of the Supreme Courts and Mrs. Prosecutor General, Mrs. Tochkova! I'll start where Mr. Shopov ended up. We have very carefully familiarized ourselves with all the reports, supported them in the Legal Committee, and we will support them in the Chamber. I allow myself to take the floor because, throughout my professional career as a lawyer, I have worked directly with the judiciary and I also state that I believe in it as well as Mr. Shopov, and in my work I have repeatedly convinced myself of the professionalism of fellow magistrates. I'll take two questions, I'll pay attention to them. One is the workload of the judicial authorities, which is concerned not only in the Report of the Supreme Judicial Council, but also in the other reports, and especially in the courts. The Supreme Judicial Council is the body that must regulate workload, monitor it and regulate it as far as possible. As soon as the candidates were elected members of the current Supreme Judicial Council, each one of them heard, talked about the court card, was familiar with the different workloads in different courts and courts of one degree, and there were times a difference in workload. As is apparent from the Report and when it is introduced, the question is about the rules for assessing the workload of the judicial authorities which have been adopted and which are constantly updated. With legislative initiatives, the National Assembly changed various laws that changed the conviction of various cases and thus tried to regulate the processes. There is certainly a need to reorganise the authorities and is evident at least from what the prosecution does with the 11 district prosecutions that are closed, which is a clear movement in this direction. That's what the report says. This is undoubtedly an unpopular measure for settlements, for citizens, but, again, there are times when there is a difference in workload and share per month for different courts, you write it, and you get a disproportion. Therefore, I believe that this should be actively worked in the next year, to present this map, and to proceed with taking these measures, and not to release people, but, most precisely, to reorganise the work and to be able to carry out the load on a level playing field. That's what you're pointing at. The other issue on which I will take charge is not a matter within the jurisdiction of the Supreme Judicial Council, but the Supreme Judicial Council is the body which, under the Law on the Judiciary, organises the competitions for appointments. There has been a change in the Law, which I do not share, and therefore I am going to ask it again under which, in the case of vacant posts in courts, prosecutions and investigation services, the initial appointment is determined to be up to 10%, and not even 10 to 10%. This was the majority's decision and it was adopted, but in my opinion, this system is shutting down. The Institute of Unchangeableness guarantees the acting magistrates their work. This is useful for society, this continuity in their work is guaranteed. But when there is a vacant post, I can't understand why the door is only open up to 10 percent, provided the Supreme Judicial Council organises the competitions. In these competitions, magistrates from other courts should also be able to appear when there is a free number in a court or prosecution and other lawyers who, on equal grounds, compete for this place. I don't think that shutting down the system is helpful. I made a statement at the time, and I'm saying it now. We will vote in favour of the report. Once again, I believe that the data is detailed, the information allows each of my fellow Members to make a personal impression to the extent of every personnel, disciplinary or transfer you have reached, which really allows lawmakers to receive detailed information, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. Are there any lines? There are no lines to his statement. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, honourable representatives of the judiciary! The third power in Bulgaria really works under a severe shortage of staff, of finance, of premises, and prosecutors, investigators and judges, of course, face this problem. Part of the reform of the judiciary system should focus on resolving this problem.. to the imbalance in the workload of courts, to the speed of course, and the quality of the process. An increasingly severe problem is the lack of well-known persons, jurors and their pay. Access to justice, especially in civil matters, is partly hindered because of higher court fees and expensive process "customer fees, property charges and so on " not that the fees are so high, but in Bulgaria the standard of living is lower. Solving these problems is not dependent on the judiciary system, but on the legislative and executive authorities. For example, the main criminogenic factor in Bulgaria is low education, demographic crisis and poverty. This is not the fault of the prosecution or the court, but rather it is the fault of the politicians who should provide a better standard of living in Bulgaria. In order not to take the floor afterwards, we will support all the reports presented today by the representatives of the judiciary. I will take advantage of the stand and turn to all of them to tell them to really continue to fight for this justice, because one of the characteristics of the judiciary is precisely not so much retribution, but rather justice. There is a deficit of justice and a feeling of such a deficit in Bulgaria. Success in this fight will not be easy, it will not be short! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs to vote. I vote on the Annual Activity Report of the Supreme Judicial Council 2018 submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 31 May 2019. They voted 122 MPs: for 121, against none, abstention 1. The proposal and the Annual Report have been adopted. We continue with the second item on the agenda: REPORT ON THE ACTION OF THE INSPECTOR TO THE HIGH JUDGE COUNCIL FOR 2018 Mrs. Atanasova, you are welcome to present the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u16	Thank you, Madam President. "COMMODITY" on the Report on the activity of the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council for 2018, No 91-00-5 submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 31 May 2019. At its meeting held on 13 June 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Report on the activity of the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council for 2018, No 911-00-5 submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 31 May 2019. The meeting was attended by the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council (JVSS) Mrs. Teodora Tochkova, Chief Inspector; and Mr. Ignat Georgiev, Inspector. The report on the activities of the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council for 2018 was presented by Mrs. Teodora Tochkova, who noted that in 2018, the Inspectorate carried out a total of 61 inquiries in the judicial authorities in the five appeals areas, verifying the activities of the judiciary bodies for 2016 and 2017. It has been stated that during the reporting period the EMU has implemented its annual programme for 2018, with 47 complex planned inspections carried out, of which five in the courts in civil and administrative matters, 20 in the courts in criminal cases, 21 in the prosecutions and district investigation departments in the district prosecutions, and the National Investigation Office has also been verified. Three thematic checks were carried out, 10 random checks were carried out on alerts on civil, commercial and criminal cases and prosecution files and 1 self-secution check. Mrs. Tochkova emphasized that a total of 1492 alerts for infringements by the judicial authorities were received in the reporting period and 1008 signals were completed. In 2018, the EMU issued two alerts for uniformity of the case-law and prepared opinions on four interpretation cases. It was noted that for the first time since the beginning of its activities in 2018, the EJC carried out complex planning checks at the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Supreme Administrative Court, the National Investigation Service, the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court and the Specialized Criminal Court, the Appeals Specialized Prosecutor's Office and the Special Prosecutor's Office, and the results of the checks were detailed in the Report. Mrs. Tochkova added that as a result of the checks carried out by the courts, both complex planned checks and accidental checks on alerts have been identified some problems, above all with regard to non-compliance with the time limits for the movement and completion of specific legal proceedings, non-compliance with the reasonable three-month period for the preparation of the judicial acts by some judges, as well as the existence of a diverse practice in the administration of the proceedings under art. 203 of the Administrative Procedure Code. With regard to some of the prosecutors, delays have been found when deciding on the checks under art. 145 of the Law on the Judiciary and the resolution of cases by some prosecutors and the failure by some prosecutors of the necessary control over the work of the Ministry of Interior's employees in suspended criminal proceedings. It has been found that, in some cases, monitoring prosecutors do not function effectively enough on the management and supervision of the investigation, and therefore procedural infringements which lead to the annulment of prosecutorial acts or the return of cases by the court are permitted. Ms. Tochkova noted that a number of positive practices have also been established in the verification of the judicial authorities, such as the existence of a very good organisation of administrative activity in the verified courts and prosecutions, the holding of periodic meetings in the courts where a conflicting practice has been discussed, and an organisation has been established in the prosecutions, in which the acquitted sentences are analysed, as well as the reasons for the annulment of prosecutors' acts and the return of cases for the resolution of material procedural infringements. It was noted that during the period under review, there were no cases in which the proceedings were terminated due to the expiry of the limitation period laid down in the law and no acquittals were given for cases committed by judges, prosecutors and investigators and persons holding senior positions in corruption crimes. Ms. Tochkova pointed out that in 2018, the IWC has made proposals for the promotion of the administrative head of the Administrative Court of Sofia, and seven judges from this court, as well as the administrative head of the Regional Prosecutor's Office, Harmanli, for the exemplary performance of their duties during the checks. They are all encouraged by the SJC with honorary honorary sign of the second degree of silver. As regards the activity of examining the applications against infringement of the right of examination and resolution of the case within a reasonable period of time and no problems have been identified during the accounting year 2018. It was pointed out that the main reason for breach of the reasonable time limit for the examination of cases was non-compliance with the established procedural time limits for the formation, movement and closure of cases, such as the infringement of the reasonable time limit for the examination of cases contributed or was entirely due to the actions of judges for which the SJC had made proposals to impose disciplinary penalties. It was found that during the past two years of the introduction of the powers of the EMU to carry out checks on the property declarations of judges, prosecutors and investigators and on integrity and conflict of interest checks, to establish actions affecting the prestige of the judiciary and those relating to the violation of the independence of judges, prosecutors and investigators, significant experience has been gained. Ms. Tochkova welcomes the amended provisions in the Judicial Law, which facilitate the activity of checking the declarations of property and interests. Within the prescribed legal period in 2018, 4766 declarations have been verified and processed and the property of 10 195 persons has actually been examined, the magistrates, their spouses, the persons with whom they are in actual cohabitation of spouses and their minor children. With regard to the activity of integrity checks in 2018, from a total of 60 files formed by alerts containing allegations of violations under art. 175k, para. 1 " 4" of the Law on the Judiciary, checks were initiated in 15 cases, with only one of the completed checks on 31 December 2018 prepared a reasoned report containing an opinion on the existence of sufficient data for an infringement under art. 175k of the Law on the Judiciary. For the reporting period, on a proposal from the EMU, the Colleges of the SJC have initiated 8 disciplinary proceedings against magistrates. A total of 40 alerts have been issued to the heads of the courts, the prosecution and the prosecution, and the investigation, containing recommendations for assessment of the need to impose a disciplinary measure under art. 327 of the Law on the Judiciary or of disciplinary punishment under art. OJ L 343, 22.12.2009, p. 1. 1, t. 1 of the Law on the Judiciary. In conclusion Mrs. Tochkova summarized that on the basis of the conclusions on the results of the activities of the EMU in the different directions for 2018, the Inspectorate successfully dealt with the powers entrusted to it and its activities enjoyed the support of the public and the trust of the magistrates. In response to a question raised by the MP Hamid Hamid Hamid concerning disciplinary proceedings with regard to magistrates, Mrs. Tochkova pointed out that it is appropriate to introduce the possibility that the EJC may impose some of the lighter disciplinary penalties such as After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 16 votes for the Council of the Inspectorate's Office of the Supreme Judicial Council of 2018, No 911-05 submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 31 May 2019 and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision on it with the following wording: Project! DECISION adopting a Report on the activity of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council for 2018 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report on the activity of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council for 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u17	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. Following an importer's opinion. Dear Mrs. Tochkova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u18	Dear Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I am pleased with you to report that in 2018 the Inspectorate successfully managed its entire palette of powers. Our activity is described in detail in the Report of the institution for 2018. A document of analysis detailing our findings from the checks carried out in the different directions of our activity. I will focus briefly on some aspects of our work, which stress, on our role as a control body. During the last reporting period, the Inspectorate has implemented its annual programme. A total of 61 inquiries were carried out.. complex, planned, thematic, accidental and self-secution checks were carried out. In 2018, the Inspectorate first performed an inspection of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Supreme Administrative Court, the National Investigation Service, the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court, the Specialized Criminal Court, the Appeals Specialized Prosecutor's Office and the Special Prosecutor's Office. In the verification carried out in 2018, positive practices were first and foremost established, namely: a very good organisation of administrative activities, strict compliance with the principle of accidental distribution of cases, the award of judicial and prosecutorial acts in procedural and reasonable time limits, over 80% of the cases to be dealt with. In the cases examined in criminal proceedings, there are no suspended cases due to the expiry of the limitation period laid down in the Law. Of course, certain omissions made by some judges and prosecutors were also identified, expressing themselves in general in non-compliance with the time limits for adjourning cases, the unreasonable deadline for the preparation of the judicial acts, delays in the determination of the checks under art. 145 of the Law on the Judiciary and in solving cases by some prosecutors. Both in cases of disciplinary violations and in cases of exemplary performance of his duties, the Inspectorate has responded adequately and objectively to the necessary actions. In 2018, we made eight proposals for disciplinary penalties to magistrates and nine proposals for incentives to judges and prosecutors. With regard to the action to examine the applications for slow justice and in the accounting year 2018, the trend of previous years has persisted in breach of the right of examination and resolution of the case within a reasonable period of time to be established primarily by the actions of judicial authorities governed by law within the territory of the Sofia Court of Appeal. During the last two years of the introduction of the new powers of the Inspectorate relating to the verification of property declarations and integrity checks, we have gained really significant experience. Thanks to the activity of checking the property declarations, the Inspectorate showed the public the property, deposits and duties of the magistrates, the compliance of the declared circumstances with the declared and certified circumstances of the property status of the magistrates. In 2018, 4 thousand were verified and processed. 766 declarations, in fact the property of 10 thousand was verified. 195 persons - magistrates, their spouses, persons with whom they actually live on marital cohabitation, on marital grounds and underage children. I believe that, according to the legal framework and the lack of investigative powers, we are also effectively implementing our integrity checks. In 2018, 60 files on alerts containing allegations of such infringements were formed. On these 60 files, 15 inspections were initiated. In one case, sufficient evidence of an infringement has been collected from the completed checks. In addition, from the granting of these powers to the Inspectorate in 2017, a report containing an opinion that sufficient evidence of integrity violations has been carried out has completed a total of six checks. In all these cases, we have made proposals for disciplinary punishment. There are already disciplinary penalties imposed by the relevant Colleges of the Supreme Judicial Council for such violations. In this sense, I can say that the Inspectorate is making efforts and achieving results. In conclusion, I would like to sum up that the Inspectorate is successfully handling all the powers at its disposal. This proves that his activities enjoy the trust of magistrates and the support of society. That's what I'd like to share with the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Tochkova. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches, honourable Members? No statements have been made. I'm calling off the debate. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. There's a vote coming up. I will put to the vote the draft decision which was presented by Mrs. Atanasova. Project! DECISION adopting a Report on the activity of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council for 2018 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report on the activity of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council for 2018 They voted 119 MPs: 118 against 1, no abstentions. The proposal and decision have been adopted. We move to the next item on the agenda: REPORT ON THE APPLICATION OF THE LAW AND THE ACTION OF THE COURTS IN 2018, No 911-00-6. He was introduced by the Supreme Judicial Council on 31 May 2018. From the Committee on Legal Affairs, we will first hear the Opinion on the Report on the Law Enforcement and Action of the Courts in 2018, No 911-00-6, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 31 May 2019. Here you are, Mrs. Ilieva, to present the opinion to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I present to your attention "COMMODITY" on a report on the application of the law and the activities of the courts in 2018, No 911-00-6) submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 31 May 2019. At its meeting held on 13 June 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs examined a Report on the application of the law and the activities of the courts in 2018, No 911-00-6, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 31 May 2019. The report shall be drawn up on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary. The meeting was attended by the Supreme Court of Cassation: Mr. Lozan Panov The report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the courts was presented by Mr. Lozan Panov, who outlined data on the activities of the judiciary, the judicial map, the building fund, the judiciary administration and emphasized on the uneven workload by districts in the country. He summarized that for 2018, the number of all cases to be dealt with in the judiciary, excluding those in the VCC, was 661 276 and added that in 2018. 462,810 cases have been closed in substance. The suspended proceedings in the current year are 81 594 and at the end of the accounting year there are 116 872 pending cases. With regard to the work of the courts, it was noted that in the district courts of the district centres, including the Sofia District Court, the number of judges in 2018 was 660 and the number was increased by one stats compared to 2017. The total number of cases examined by them was 383 185, of which 310 522 cases were completed, 264 658 were completed by act on the substance, 45 864 numbers were terminated, 72 663 cases were closed at the end of the year, and the appeals and the protesters were 32 557 pieces. On the matter of the year in question a total of 383 185 cases 283 392 are civil and 99 793 are criminal cases. In the other district courts, outside the district centres, the number of judges is 340, the number of cases under consideration is 151 423, of which 134 288 cases were completed, 112 636 proceedings were closed by act in substance, 21 652 were terminated, and 17 135 proceedings were pending at the end of the year, with 10 954 acts being appealed or protested. On the matter of the year in question 134 288 proceedings 104 688 were civil and 46 735 were criminal. With regard to the work of the district courts, including the activities of the Sofia City Court (SCC) and the Specialized Criminal Court (SNC) it was stated that in 2018, the number of judges was 773. During that period, judges had 107 530 cases, of which 83 821 cases were completed, 70 692 proceedings were closed by act in substance and 13 129 were terminated. The pending proceedings at the end of the year are 23,709, with 15, 257 being appealed or protested. Of the total number of cases dealt with by the district courts and the CCC, the civil proceedings are 72 114 and the criminal cases are 35 416. With regard to the appeals courts, the data show that 18,457 cases were received in 2018, of which 15,131 cases were carried out, of which 14,400 were concluded in substance, 731 proceedings were terminated and 3328 were not closed until the end of the year, with 4653 cases being appealed or protested. Of the cases at issue 13,675 are civil and 4782 are criminal. With regard to military courts, references show that 15 judges were employed in the courts in 2018. The total number of cases to be examined during the year is 681, of which 642 were completed. The judges of the military courts ruled 424 legal acts in substance, 218 proceedings were suspended at the end of the year 39 cases were pending and 60 cases were appealed or protested. Thus, the data show that the average workload of district courts in district centres, including the Sofia Regional Court, in 2018 was 55.38 cases per month, with a decrease in workload compared to the transitional year by 3.85 percent. The burden can be presented as follows: workload over 50 cases per month by a judge has 10 courts, workload between 40 and 50 cases per month have 12 courts, and less than 40 cases in 5 of the courts in the district centres. On this basis the most busy is the Sofia District Court with an average of 73.83 cases, dealt with by a judge monthly. For district judges outside the district centres, the average workload is 43,70 cases per month, with a workload of over 50 cases per month in 20 courts, between 40 and 50 cases per month in 31 courts, and under 30 cases per month have 10 district courts outside the district centres. On this basis the busiest is the District Court of Lom, with an average workload of 88.15 cases, dealt with by one judge a month. In district courts, data show that the average workload in 2018 was 13.79 cases per month. At the same time, the workload of the Sofia City Court is 25.39 pieces per month and 35.99 cases, dealt with by one judge per month. The average workload of the appeals courts in 2018 was 9,31 cases per month for a judge, with the workload of the judges at the Sofia Court of Appeal being 13 cases per month, while the Appeals Specialized Court examined 4,57 cases per month and the Court of Appeal, 1.28 cases per month. The data from the Courts' workload statistics presented in 2018 showed a slight drop in this indicator, reflecting the efforts of the Supreme Judicial Council to identify the reasons and to take action to achieve equal workload in the courts. Mr. Panov pointed out that in order to improve the work of the courts in 2018 it is important both the uniform distribution of cases and the number of employees in the courts in relation to the workload of the court concerned, taking into account the specifics of the individual units. The ratio of the judiciary to the number of magistrates for district courts in district centers is 2.84 administrative employees of one judge, and for the Sofia District Court this indicator is 3.22 administrative employees of one judge. In the other district courts outside the district centres this proportion is respectively 3.99 administrative employees of one judge. The ratio under this criterion for district courts is 1.99 administrative employees of one judge, while in the Sofia City Court and the Specialized Criminal Court this indicator is 2.42 and 2.38 administrative employees of one judge respectively. The biggest difficulties on this indicator are the Courts of Appeal, where this average ratio is 1.26 employees to one magistrate, with a reference to the Sofia Court of Appeal at 1.04 and in the Court of Military Appeal at 1.71. Another priority for securing the work of the court is given to the provision of an appropriate building fund and its management. In 2018, jobs for judges and judicial officers from the Sofia Court of Appeal were provided at the Court of Justice in Sofia and it was a special place for commercial proceedings. A positive authorisation was also granted to the shortage of premises in the Court of Justice in the town of Pleven, where work premises were already provided to secure the work of the court. Solutions are sought to the issue of the shortage of premises in the buildings of the courts in Plovdiv, Kardzhali, Varna, Veliko Tarnovo, the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court and the Court of Justice in Sofia. With regard to the activities of the Supreme Court of Cassation Mr. Panov pointed out that 110 judges were working in it in 2018. The President of the Supreme Court of Cassation added that there is a lasting tendency to gradually reduce the functions of supreme judges as institutional control and focus their activities on uniformity of judicial practice. The cases that took place during the period were 9483 pieces of the file by 2.8 percent less than the previous year, together with the total number of cases examined by the previous year being 13 507. The cases decided during the year are 9154 pieces, with cases not completed at the end of the year being 4181 pieces. In 2018, the Supreme Court of Cassation initiated 7 interpretation cases, ordered 16 interpretation decisions and definitions and made two requests to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. In 2018 there are 31 judges in the penal college of the Supreme Court of Cassation. The total number of examination proceedings during the year is 1541. Of them the completed proceedings were 1277 pieces, 832 were cassation cases and 445 were private proceedings. Unfinished productions at the end of the year are 264 pieces. Of the declared cases 50.12 per cent have been settled within one month, 15.95 per cent have been resolved within 2 months and 15.46 per cent have been resolved after these deadlines. In private proceedings 90.58 per cent were decided within 1 month and 1.35 per cent were resolved within 2 months. The average workload of the judges of the penal college during the reporting period shall be 4.6 shares per month. The Supreme Court of Cassation's civil college in 2018 employs 46 judges. The total number of cases to be dealt with in 2018, including cassation and private proceedings, is 7478. During the year, the cases carried out by the civil college were 4941, of which 3511 cassation cases and 1430 private proceedings. The pending proceedings at the end of the year are 2372 pieces. The average annual workload at the civil college indicates that each judge is involved in the handling of 321 cases and is rapporteur for 107 completed proceedings. At the same time, during the current period, each judge is assigned the reporting to a three-member panel of 163 newly formed and welded cases. 21 Supreme Judges are working in a trade college in 2018 and with effect from 22 February 2018, the judges are 23. The total number of cases involving cassation and private proceedings is 4488. The commercial proceedings completed during the year were 2927, of which 1801 were commercial cases and 1126 were private proceedings. The outstanding cases at the end of the period were 1268 pieces. During the current period, each Judge of the Commercial College is allocated for an average of 207 cases per year, with an average of 173 cases per year. Mr. Panov drew attention to the legislative initiative adopted in 2018 on the adoption of the amendments to the Code on Insurance and the Law on Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and added that the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council has sent a request for authentic interpretation of art. 416 para. 2 and para. 7 of the PPC. The Minister of Justice gave a positive assessment of the work of the courts and called for support to the Report on the Law Enforcement and the Courts' Activity in 2018. He asked the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation when preparing the Annual Report on the Courts' Activity to focus efforts to reflect the joint work between the three authorities, not to seek institutional opposition between the constitutionally designated authorities of the state. The discussion was attended by the MPs Hristian Mitev, Emil Dimitrov, Hamid Hamid, Yordan Tsonev and Dimitar Lazarov. Mr. Mitev, Mr. Dimitrov and Mr. Hamid expressed support for the work done by the courts and pointed out that they have deep respect for the judging profession. They expressed their opinion that the political assessments given in the report on the activities of the legislative power do not support institutional dialogue and constitute interference in the work of the National Assembly. Mr. Lazarov drew attention to the reported data in the Report on the quality of the judicial activity, focusing on the annulled and returned court decisions, which are about 58 percent. In response to the question, Mr. Panov pointed out that the reasons for the annulment and return of these acts are analyzed and discussed through the holding of general meetings and participation of the judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation when hearing the reports of the courts. Mr. Tsonev added that the legislative initiative on the basis of the interpretive decision on anti-corruption legislation was necessary and correct, aiming to preserve the will of the legislator in the adoption of the law in 2012. He disagreed with the report that the legislator purposely opposed the constitutional power of the Supreme Court of Cassation to align the case law. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 16 votes for abstentions, without abstention and abstention, supported the Report on the application of the law and the activities of the courts in 2018, No 911-76, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 31 May 2019 and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision on it with the following wording: Project! DECISION adopting a Report on the application of the law and the activities of the courts in 2018 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the Implementation of the Law and on the Activity of the Courts in 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. A presentation on behalf of the importer shall be followed by a procedure. Here you are, Mr. Panov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u22	Dear Madam President of the National Assembly, honourable Members! The Report on the Activity of the Courts and the Implementation of the Law in 2018 analyzes the main issues and challenges of the past year - legislative changes, uneven workload of courts, judicial buildings, judicial administration. Let me not concern you with statistics that I believe each of you has been introduced to. I'll focus on the main issues. Some of them were presented to your attention by the Supreme Judicial Council, as well as the reports from the discussion held at the Legal Commission. With regard to the legislation, for the second time, the amendment of the PPC and the Law on the Judiciary, which entered in 2017, was mentioned to you. 416 para. 2 and para. 7 of the PPC and Art. 64, para. 1 and para. 2 of the Law on the Judiciary. In fact, these are the rules governing the order for the publication of judgments on the websites of the courts. Since this norm caused different practice from law enforcement colleges, this led to the Plenum Decision of the Supreme Judicial Council, which you were familiar with in the first report. The minutes of 1 February 2018 requested an authentic interpretation by the legislator of those rules. So far, there is no such authentic interpretation, there is no change in legislation. I take this opportunity to say that, on 19 September 2018, when the report on the application of the law and the activities of the courts for 2017, in plenary, the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs clarified that no interpretation would be sought but the law would be amended. The Minister of Justice at the moment, then, in his life as Member of the National Assembly and President of the Commission, explicitly pointed out that such a change would take place. Until now, as I have already told you, there is no such change. Why do I think that time has shown that the new norms lead only to limiting indefinitely the publicity of justice? This is because the courts are forbidden to publish reports of the lawsuit. However, this is not an obstacle for the parties to the cases of the prosecution, the defendants, their lawyers to make their interpretation of the law. I believe, as I have already said, that the dissemination of this information is important for the court. It is important in view of the publicity and transparency of the judicial process. Of course, everyone has the right to interpret a judicial act, but when there is a lack of timely information, at the moment when this has happened, credible information from the court itself, which issued the judgment, clearly creates tensions as among colleagues, and can lead to distortion of information when presenting such a case. In fact, this was one of the points that provoked the reaction of the Minister of Justice in the Supreme Judicial Council, which explicitly stated and proposed, for the first time in the history of the Supreme Judicial Council, that the report on the activities of the courts be rejected. I'll talk to you a little later. I will address a very important issue of workload, judicial card and personnel issues. As has already been explained, the 2018 data shows that the measures taken over the years by the Supreme Judicial Council to address the problem of uneven workload of individual bodies and the judiciary have not yet resulted in the expected and sought results. The data is based on the conclusions of the workload, they show a significant unevenness of the load between the levels as well as between the different instances. With an average workload of 9,31 cases per month by one judge for the appeals courts, even for the Sofia Court of Appeal, 13 cases, while the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court is 4,57 cases per month, and the Military Court is, notice, 1,28 cases per month. With regard to the military courts, I will speak a little later. Unfortunately, even greater is the range when comparing data on individual district courts, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, those of the Specialized Criminal Court, as well as of the Sofia City Court. In the case of average workload in 2018 of the judicial units at this level of the judicial system of 13,79 cases per month of a judge, that of the Specialized Criminal Court is 35,99, that is to say almost 36 cases per judge, of the Sofia City Court is 25,39 and below 7 cases per year for 2018 a judge is the workload of the district courts in Targovishte at 5,22, in Kardzhali 6,12. In the regional courts of the country, the situation of uneven loading of judges is even more noticeable. With an average workload of 55,38 cases per month for a judge in the district courts in the district centers, the Sofia District Court has 73.83 cases. They have decreased compared to the previous year, but again in proportion to the other courts of this level is much greater. The workload of other district courts is also high: in Pernik, 65.90, in Plovdiv 57.08, in Montana 56.57, in Pazardzhik 56.07. While in other district courts, for example, in Silistra, is 29,89 cases per month considered by a judge. In other district courts in district centres with workload below 40 cases are Veliko Tarnovo, Dobrich, Gabrovo, Smolyan. In the district courts outside the district centres, with an average workload of 43,70 cases per month, there are courts with workload and below 20 cases. Such is the court in Ardino with 12.38 cases, while others have over 70 cases a month. It is so in the Pyonon Court of Lom 88,15, the Pyon Court of Nova Zagora 79,14, the Pyon Court of Peshtera. A monthly judge in Ihtiman deals with 69.31 cases, while in the Payon Court of Velingrad 67,08 cases. Unequivalence leads to different loads of magistrates and hence to delays in judicial proceedings. We can't help but notice, I think it was said here in the hall, in the competition procedures. The finalisation of the competition procedures takes place very slowly despite the legislative changes, despite the efforts of the Supreme Judicial Council to organise these contests, despite the assistance and requirement of the necessary documents. Of an organizational nature, we make the necessary efforts. However, obviously, the competition procedures require optimization in view of their excessive duration. That is why I appeal to you: if we have ideas, and they are already in the Supreme Judicial Council, related to changing the way competition procedures change, the subject of compliance with the regional principle, which can speed up competition procedures, I will ask for your assistance, of course, with the promise to further specify the motives that affect this matter. The problems with the competitions lead to a failure to fill in the free stats and at the same time this motivates the administrative leaders with a view to the need to continue the process of work in the courts to post judges. On the principle of dominoes, when the upper instance commander of the magistrate, the lower instance is also in need of a posting magistrate from a lower instance and in view of this, great difficulties are created in the work of all judicial units. We have repeatedly said that delaying competition procedures should not lead to prerequisites for the secondment of many magistrates, as it does not represent career growth. With regard to court buildings, I will be very brief. Indeed, I can't help but mention the problems at the Court of Justice last year. As you know, there are magistrates from six courts and units of the prosecution, including the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office. They are accommodated in it and the building is no doubt narrow for all of them. I believe that the time has come when authorities must be taken out of the Court of Justice to receive the colleagues who work there, adequate working conditions. Literally, each room is occupied.. even the judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation are not located in offices, but in small rooms, which used to be conference rooms of the Court of Justice. In the report, as has already been pointed out, there are problems at the Court of Justice "Plovdiv," and the need to identify new halls, for Varna, you know that the Supreme Judicial Council held a meeting in the city for the long-standing problem with the building. Specialized criminal courts. The issue of a separate building seems to have already been resolved, however, it remains more important that the necessary actions be taken in order for colleagues, if not soon, to have at least in the long term, to have the vision to be accommodated in the building in the so-called Techkum "Stalin." At the same time, the premises of Cherkovna Street, which currently serve for the work of the Specialized Criminal Court and the Special Court, in my opinion, as well as in the opinion of colleagues from the Property Management Commission, must remain for the judiciary. Here is an opportunity for institutions from the Court of Justice to be moved there, so that the more busy judicial institutions in the Court of Justice can rule quite normally. You understand that waiting for court halls inevitably leads to tensions among the parties, participants in the process, and delays in proceedings. With regard to the judiciary, I will be brief. Really serious efforts have been made, but there is a significant difference in the proportion of employees to the number of magistrates. Emblematic is the example with the Sofia Court of Appeal, where the ratio is one to twenty-six, while in some different institutions There are judicial institutions with a ratio of one to six and five, one to seven I'm talking about Momchilgrad, Zlatograd, Devin and Omurtag. With regard to workload, we have already had the opportunity to comment on this topic. Obviously, it is a different ratio between the various bodies of the judiciary. I can't help but think of the appeals courts. In them, the average workload was 9,31 cases, which was close to that of the previous year. Among them the least charged is the Court of Military Appeals, as I already said, 1.28 cases, the Specialized Criminal Court of Appeal, 4.57 cases, the Sofia Court of Appeal is the busiest with 13 cases, follows the Court of Appeal. Allow me to say a few words about the activities of the Supreme Court of Cassation. For the first time in his history, an inspection was carried out by the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. It covered the activities of the Criminal College for the period 2016 - 2017. I have already expressed my opinion that the report is objective and positive. It is published both on the website of the EMU and, of course, on the website of the Supreme Court of Cassation. It notes that the measures taken by the court's management have proved effective and have achieved the necessary result. With these measures, no matter how difficult it may be, we have strived to try to motivate the supreme judges despite their workload, despite their commitment to interpretive work to write cases in time. Of course, not everyone complies with the deadline in the PPC, but we are seeking that the reasonable deadline for about three or four months should be respected by our fellow high judges. This is noted by the inspection carried out by the Inspectorate. What other conclusions did the Inspectorate draw? The inspection has shown a good organisation of the court's administrative activities. No infringement has been detected in the formation, distribution, movement and closure of cases. The process of serving citizens is as optimized as possible. The division of cases shall be carried out on the basis of random selection and in accordance with the rules in force in court. There was no infringement in the proceedings and the division of cases. I say this because the Minister of Justice in Debate has explicitly indicated that the President of the Court influences the distribution of cases. I take this opportunity to say that I have invited the Minister of Justice when it is convenient, at any moment, to see how the rules are followed. The distribution itself is carried out by judicial officers, and the court's management only controls the way this is happening. Let me remind you that for the first time in some time the public distribution is done even to the media, and anyone who wants to see this happen has this opportunity. In this sense, I believe that these leaning statements are untrue. With regard to the interpretation activity. The other major problem, which arose in the commentary of the Report in the Supreme Judicial Council, is primarily related to two interpretation cases. The first is Case No 1 of 2016, which was given at the General Assembly of the Criminal, Civil and Commercial College and, the other is Case No 4 of 2016 of the General Assembly of the Civil College of the Supreme Court of Cassation. In view of the amendments to the LCR, this is the first interpretive case of the three colleges in total. The case was published on the court's website, sent to reporters and noted in the media. I would like to say that the interpretations, the way in which it was presented, including by parliamentarians, excuse me if some of you are here, it is hardly pointed out that the main motive of the ICC's interpretation decision will create outrage in the insurance business under the application of the Law on Obligations and Contracts. As I have already pointed out to the Legal Commission, this interpretive case extends the circle of persons who may receive compensation for the damage suffered in the event of the death of their loved ones, if there are further questions on it, I am prepared to answer. As a participant in this interpretive case, I believe that the extension of the circle was done with the efforts of all fellow Members of the Supreme Court of Cassation was seriously discussed. There were, of course, special opinions, which is quite normal in an interpretation process of the Supreme Court of Cassation. However, I believe that the request for interpretation that has been made, which has been respected and the circle has been extended, is for the benefit of society. With regard to the second interpretation case. What has sparked a debate, I think it is important to say, relatively soon and very quickly, Parliament has reacted to the outcome of this debate. Unfortunately, this is seen not only in the interpretation work of the Supreme Court of Cassation, and I can give examples of how Parliament reacts even to specific decisions. For example, an arbitration decision, which was annulled by the Supreme Court of Cassation, in the part where the Treaty on the Privatization of 70% of the capital of the Bulgarian Navy of Paradition was amended, or this is trade case No 1675 of 2017. Almost immediately following the decision of the Supreme Court of Cassation, obviously on a specific case, this sparked ideas for changing the legislation again on the fast path through lawmakers. The fate of these legislative changes, I think, is clear to everyone. However, I conclude with this theme of the interpretive activity of the VCC, it is obvious that in specific cases there is a rapid reaction of parliament, which at the very least is an amazement. As far as the court card is concerned. As I have already said about the imbalance of the workload of the courts, I can say a few important words in view of the fact that changes are being made at the Prosecutor's Office. These changes are related to the establishment of territorial compartments in certain prosecutors. This legal possibility exists in the Law on the Judiciary. However, I do not think I have expressed this opinion to colleagues from the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council that it should copy the model of the Prosecutor's Office. Just because the D.A. sets up territorial divisions doesn't mean the courts have to follow this idea and methodology, and I'll tell you why? Courts aren't just looking at criminal cases. It is true that on a national scale criminal cases are reduced by very few exceptions, but courts consider both civil and commercial cases, some of them as a constant trend, such as trade cases, increase as a number. I therefore believe that this approach should not be adopted by the Sofia College. I will propose another approach and for that I will need your cooperation. First, let me tell you about the military courts. The average state workload of a criminal judge from the district courts in the number of cases received for 2018 is 7.62 per month per judge. By the number of proceeds in the Sliven Court of Military, for example, one of the three military courts in the country, the judges have one case less charged than the average level for the criminal judges in the district courts; the judges of the Sofia Court of Military Court are twice less charged than their colleagues at the same level; the judges of the Court of Military Court of Plovdiv are more than three times less burdened. At the same time, the number and type of cases submitted and resolved for 2018 can be summarized as follows: for the three military courts it is extremely small; a large proportion are cases with relatively low legal and functional complexity. A large number of criminal proceedings are such over 70% of them, and almost half of them are interrogations before a judge. There are few cases of factual and legal complexity, much of which end with an agreement. The average annual number of sentences given in military courts is 3.20, i.e. three cases per year. At the same time, as we know, some district courts also have low workload for 2018. About 30 courts of the districts are with low workload, of which is the lowest workload of the District Court of Ivaylovgrad, notice, 11,25 cases; District Court of Ardino, is with 12,38 cases, District Court of Tran, with 12,68 cases; District Court of Malko Tarnovo In recent years, these courts have remained the least burdened, even though their number is at least two judges. What I can offer and it is good, if you want, to discuss.. to consider whether in some courts where there are two judges can not be passed, to sit with only one judge. I say this because the main argument will be that the random distribution will not be respected. I just want to say that in some courts, for example, in Ardino and Trun, for a long time, there has been only one magistrate in fact, and this does not pose any problem for both the public and the parties and for the judicial process. The hyperbolisation of the principle of accidental distribution in these low-duty courts should not prevent them from being set up with a judge. By legislative change, as well as by securing an expeditive and relatively rapid...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I am saying this because this is an idea that will not lead to the establishment of territorial compartments, on the one hand, on the other hand, will keep the establishment of a judicial institution in this populated area. Thus, the court will not abdicate, nor will the state from the settlement. I understand that the measure with the closure of courts is very unpopular, I understand that there will be reactions from the local authorities, but when this settlement preserves the judicial institution and there is a judge, and this is legally secured with the possible response of the respective administrative director, this is a slightly different path that can help the judicial card. I share it with you because this will need your support as a legislative amendment. Once again, in fact, in courts with two judges, you can imagine the occasional distribution. I do not see any obstacle in these small courts in which former judges of the peace and a judge have worked, such courts continue to prosecute in this way, secured, of course, with the duration of the judicial process. I'm ready to discuss this subject, but I'm going back to the military courts. My idea, I have repeatedly shared it, I hope many colleagues from the Supreme Judicial Council will share it, the military courts are laid down in the Constitution. I don't think it should come to changing the Constitution, but the number of military courts can be reduced. At the moment we have one Military Appeals Court and three military courts that are very low-duty. If there is no reduction in the number of military courts, it would be irresponsible to go to change the small courts where magistrates work, who rule with times more cases than the military judges. I believe that, as a small Bulgaria, with the small number of servicemen and the low degree of legal complexity of the cases in this category of cases, I believe that a court-martial as a first instance, one Court of Military Appeal is quite sufficient. We can debate where this court will be held in Sofia, Plovdiv or somewhere else, but this is another topic. More importantly, a step must be taken in military justice, and what I am trying to do, and now I am presenting to you is with regard to the district judges. Let us not marginalize the principle of random distribution, as I have already said, I repeat myself, in some of these courts for a long time, it has been factually law enforcement on a magistrate, and this, believe me, does not disturb any of the parties to the case. With this I will end because the judicial map against the background of the realities related to demographic changes, unfortunately, with the concentration of the population and the activity of the companies in the large courts, mainly in Sofia, leads to processes that cannot be taken into account by the Supreme Judicial Council, and there is no way these institutions will not react. I am, of course, ready for a discussion on all matters, ready to answer your questions. If there are any, I'm asking you to still give me a chance to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Panov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow lawmakers, honourable fellow lawyers! I don't want such discussions! I'll tell you why. Because each discussion shall be held with the relevant persons at the relevant place on the occasion. Some people, in order to make themselves important, become factors in certain matters, and in conducting such discussions, have functions, titles, and significance that they are not entitled to. We've seen this many times in recent years. Finally, it is time, almost 30 years after the start of democratic processes and the adoption of the existing Constitution, that things should come together. Let's make some fine adjustments and everyone know their place, function, role and responsibilities. What is the role of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation? His role is to lead the Supreme Court of Cassation. He is the administrative head of the Supreme Court of Cassation. He is a judge of the Supreme Court of Cassation and, like all other judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation, must decide cases. I will return to a former President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, who, for the entire time of his term of office, had solved a case for the registration of the National Movement of Simeon the Second, I remember, had not accepted such registration. I don't know how he is right now. High magistrates, presidors of courts, including, I would say, both district courts and county appeals courts, how many cases are they deciding on? This is a very important indicator of whether they are judges or from somewhere, of all sorts, who have never decided and in one case in their lives, suddenly become, are placed for political or other reasons in the highest places. It is very revealing, honourable Members. I listened to the honourable Mr. Panov with great interest when he conceived and took up the topic of the Supreme Court of Cassation. Yes, he told us very important things. Here, however, let's talk, since you have the power to summarize this report on the data that other district, district and appeals courts are submitting to you, and to bring it here with a strict, defined, narrow, specialized and profiled quality, to talk about the problems in the entire judiciary, to seize the activities of the legislator or the Supreme Judicial Council, well, that is not right. And 30 years after the beginning of the amendments and implementation of the Constitution everyone to remain silent in the state on these issues, this is equivalent to a small constitutional coup. And giggling someone with the title is a complete misunderstanding of what the magistrate means, what is the role of the judge, what he does and who is in the judiciary. To be a judge means to rule on a particular case in which you are referred as a district, district, appeals, supreme judge. You decide the case and you don't have the right to an opinion, you don't have the right to interview, you don't have the right to go out, you don't have the right to protest, you don't have the right to organize known and unknown circles of people and people, to gather around you judges who one way or another...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u25	You're getting a little hot, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u26	Yes, because the subject is vicious and for a long time there has been a complete misunderstanding in society about these issues. In this regard, I say again, it is the job of the legislator and the Supreme Judicial Council to judge right or wrong, good or wrong. For the Military Court, whether it should be there, of course it should be there, how long should it be, what burden, what powers should it have? It is a matter of the legislature and of the Supreme Judicial Council to rule, judge and give formulas regarding the workload of the district courts, the district courts, the Court of Appeal and no one else. If someone else as a member of the Supreme Judicial Council has another opinion, there he may express his opinion, but these opinions cannot be expressed in society as a magistrate, either as a private person, or as a lawyer, or as a specialist on the topics and issues, because the Supreme Judicial Council acts as a collective body on these issues and he has a representative standing here in the Chamber, who can share these issues and place them before us, before the National Assembly as a legislator. In this sense, and in this regard, no one has the right to attribute powers that are greater than what the Constitution and the laws of the judiciary, as they currently are, have given them. And no one can be referred to as "the second" or "the second" or "the second" or "the second" or "the second" or "the second" or "the second." Here I will ask the question: why shouldn't the President of the Supreme Administrative Court be called first among the judges? What's the difference? Who is the higher-ranking or lower-ranking of the two types of court I am asking a question? And these are all problems, questions and questions. Honourable Members, following the excisions that occurred some time ago, including on the occasion of these two interpretation decisions, on which it was once again expressed here as if an opinion, an opinion, the view, these two interpretation decisions, correct or incorrect, therefore there is no place to comment, were given by the respective Chamber in the Supreme Court of Cassation and those who issued them, have no right to comment, interviews, opinions, opinions. And even less has the right to express opinions, doubts, recommendations to us and to participate in the press, to participate in a discussion the administrative manager, who is the administrative manager no more or less of the Supreme Court of Cassation, and who takes care of the building, the cleanliness, the cleaning women. [[Laughter]] Yeah, that's his concern. And the members of the Supreme Court of Cassation rule decisions, they look at cases, and we all know what functions they have. Of course, this report, which has been presented to us, must be adopted, another question is how it was presented and by whom it was presented. Yes, it was presented by the one to whom the law assigns this function.. modest or large, high, comprehensive, does not matter. We execute the Constitution, we continue to implement it and implement it. I conclude with the words: it is high time for everyone to know their place, for everyone to be given the due.. this is an old legal rule of Roman law so far, and for all of us to observe the Constitution and the laws and as an institution everyone to do their job. Thank you. [[Single applause from the OP and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u28	After the break.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u29	Mr. Panov, you want to answer some questions?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u30	After the break, after the break.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u31	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u32	I'll try to be very brief. I will not comment, as it is not a question, but an attempt to make a coup d'état, this is not a topic that I think should be commented on. I'm here to talk about serious matters, not someone's opinions. But Mr. Shopov said he didn't want a discussion. On the contrary, I believe that the appearance of the Presidents of the Supreme Courts, of the Prosecutor General, of the Chief Inspector of the representing Supreme Judicial Council in the National Assembly is not a formal report, but, on the contrary, to say in the interaction with the legislative authority where it can help to optimise the work of the judicial institutions. I have already had the opportunity to say why I believe that some judicial institutions, even with one magistrate, can continue well with legislative changes. This is a topic that you can perceive or may not perceive, but it is a topic that can be discussed and there is no reason why anyone should be afraid of such discussions. This is an opportunity to make those also, because it is a way to exchange opinions. For example, a previous speaker said he was against canceling the 10% for each courthouse. Here, standing before you, I will say that I am for this change and it is realized thanks to the parliamentary majority. Thus, it was not allowed in the Cassation Court and in the Appeals Court to have a contest for the initial appointment of colleagues who had not previously been magistrates. From a professional point of view, for magistrates acting as magistrates, this hinders them in their career growth and disinfects them. That is why this idea, which generally arose in the Supreme Judicial Council and was adopted by Parliament, is an idea that I support and if we go back, I am ready, of course, to defend it. With regard to the role of the President of the VCC, as a person who should, as you said, take care only of cleaning women, I do not think so. I believe that the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, of the Supreme Administrative Court, the Prosecutor General is public figures and they have the right to express their opinion, to give interviews and to express their position, especially when it comes to the independence of the judiciary when judges are attacked and when a speech is used that is aggressive towards magistrates. I'm done with this. Perhaps only for the interpretation of the case, I think it was important for the administration of justice. I repeat, it has pointed out who are the persons materially legitimized to receive compensation for any unnecessary damage caused by the death of a loved one. Let me say that these property relations so far have been regulated by the Order of the Plenum of the Supreme Court of the 60s, and this regulation has not complied with either the justice of life or the standards established by the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. Just to say that those who are entitled to compensation have never been defined by law until now. And these decrees are from 1961, 1969 and 1984 and it is quite normal in 2015 - 2016, in view of the relations that are already different from so many years back in time, to have a new solution to the Plenum. In this sense, I cannot accept the attacks against magistrates who were actively involved in the spelling of the interpretive decision. I said that everyone can express opinions and opinions, but blame the Supreme Court for supplementing a law and changing some standards that, you see, were very good, I'm sorry, but I can't accept it and I will defend my colleagues when they haven't allowed any violations into their work. I am taking this opportunity, and with that I will end, in view of the fact that my colleagues for the most part are writing their cases, to thank them for the work they have done in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Panov. In fact, I didn't hear attacks, there was an opinion expressed by Mr. Shopov. Guys, are there any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the draft report decision presented to you. They voted 122 MPs: for 122, against and abstention there is no. The decision's been made. Colleagues, before I announce an interruption, I will make an announcement: An exhibition of paintings of children from the Children's School "Colorit" in Haskovo will be opened at the Club of the National Representative. All MPs are invited to the opening. I declare an interruption in the work of the National Assembly in 30 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u34	Colleagues, let's move on to the next point: REPORT ON THE APPLICATION OF THE LAW AND THE WORK OF ADMINISTRATIVE COURTS IN 2018 Ms. Sabeva, you have the floor to present the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u35	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Magdalinchev, Chairman of the Supreme Judicial Council, Mrs. Tochkova, Dear Mr. Cholakov, Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court, Dear Mr. Tsatsarov, Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria! I present to your attention: "COMMODITY" The Commission on Legal Affairs on the Report on the Implementation of the Law and on the Activity of Administrative Courts in 2018, No 911-00-7, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 31 May 2019. At its meeting on 13 June 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Report on the Implementation of the Law and the Activity of Administrative Courts in 2018, No 911-00-7, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 31 May 2019. The meeting was attended by the President of the Supreme Administrative Court Mr. Georgi Cholakov, who presented the main highlights in the activities of the administrative courts in 2018 and outlined the priority activities and objectives for further development of the court with a view to more effective and faster justice, ensuring equal access to justice for all citizens and improving the qualification of magistrates and judicial officers. He stressed that the reports reported the judicial and interpretation activities of the Supreme Administrative Court. All statistics of the two colleges of the Supreme Administrative Court are detailed. The priorities and main objectives for its development are outlined, which aim to ensure greater transparency in the work of the court, balance between ongoing and resolved cases, increase the qualification of judges and judicial officers, more efficient financial management of the court, control and improvement of the human resources management process. In the context of the changes in the legislation relating to the conviction of cases dealt with by the SAC, a comprehensive approach to a balanced distribution of cases has been taken and the excessive workload of magistrates. The reports take into account trainings and projects of administrative courts. A series of trainings were organized in which judges, court assistants and judicial officers from all administrative courts in the country took part. In 2018, the General Assembly of the Colleges of the Republic of Bulgaria delivered pursuant to Interpretation Decision No 1 of 17 September 2018, which was given in interpretive case No 4/2016, initiated at the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. The purpose of the interpretation was the provision of art. 216, para. 7 of the Law on Structure of the Area. During the accounting year no interpretations have been formed. In 2018, the total number of cases to be examined at the Supreme Administrative Court was 22 085. The number of substantially solved administrative cases in the SAC is 15 941, compared to 15 812 in 2017. Mr. Cholakov noted that during the accounting year the trend remains that the number of legal acts drawn up within one month is the highest in 14 124 of the total number of cases done. The period of the legal acts drawn up from 1 to 3 months is 1400 and only 413 cases are above the quarterly deadlines. The analysis of the statistics presented in the report concludes that the trend for the preparation of judicial acts is maintained within the time limit, with lasting effectiveness in the judicial activities of the Supreme Administrative Court due to the organisation of the judicial process, as well as the personal motivation and professionalism of magistrates. It was stressed that as a result of the precise work of the judges and the judicial officers, the administrative administration in Bulgaria ranks third position in the European Union on the speed of dealing with the cases in the first and second instance. These indicators are from the European Union information board, which is part of the instrument used by the European Commission to monitor the judicial systems of the Member States. In the reporting period, 97 judges worked at the Supreme Administrative Court, one judge retired and two left. The report provides information on the activities of administrative courts in 2018, which includes data on the cases received and closed during the year for each administrative court, on the quality of the judicial acts and the period for the resolution of disputes. The number of cases per month for the previous reporting period was 23,34 cases per month; the administrative court of the administrative court of Kyustendil 23,75 cases per month for 2018; the administrative court of Pernik 23,56 cases per month; the administrative court of Burgas 23,07 cases per month for 2018, the number of cases per month for the previous reporting period were 21,90 cases per month; the administrative court of 21,61 cases per month, and the administrative court of 2018; the administrative court of 20,31 cases per month. With the lowest number of cases per year for 2018 and the reference for the previous reference period were 19,61 cases per month, and the administrative court of Pazardzhik 20,31 cases per month for 2018. The activities of administrative courts in 2018 are summarised by detailed data for each administrative court, including the number of cases initiated, their movement, the workload of judges, personnel security, building fund and technical security. Mr. Cholakov stressed that the amendments made to the Administrative Procedure Code on Calling, Participation of the interested parties, the deadline for the ruling of the administrative body, the judicial proceedings, the regulation of the state fees, and a number of special laws concerning the conviction, respectively the jurisdiction of the Supreme Administrative Court and the administrative courts, reached the objective of disarming the Supreme Administrative Court as the first instance court. With the amendments introduced, the Supreme Administrative Court will be able to establish itself as a cassation authority and strengthen its work on issuing interpretation decisions and decrees. The changes will lead to an increase in the burden of administrative courts in order to be able to work with full capacity, such as the purpose of administrative justice reform. There has been an increase in the effectiveness of administration by administrative courts and a reduction in cases brought to the Supreme Administrative Court, leading to a reduction in the time limits for the handling of cases. In the last part of the Report it is noted that the trend continues on the different level of workload of administrative courts and in this regard the need for a thorough analysis of their activities is noted. After the vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs unanimously held with 16 votes for abstention, without abstention and abstention, supported the report on the application of the law and the activities of the administrative courts in 2018, No 911-07 submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 31 May 2019 and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision on it with the following wording: Project! DECISION adopting a Report on the application of the law and the activities of administrative courts in 2018 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report on the Implementation of the Law and the Activity of Administrative Courts in 2018 [[Private applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Sabeva. There are no reports or opinions received from other committees. I shall open the deliberations on the delivered opinion. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I don't see any requests for speeches. Mr. Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court, you are likely to take an attitude towards the Report. Dear Mr. Cholakov, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u37	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will not take up much time in plenary, as I believe that everything that was necessary has been said in the Report prepared by the Legal Committee and read. Indeed, this is the first report and report that I have drawn up since I entered as President of the Supreme Administrative Court, that is, I am taking into account a full annual period of my activity. What I would like to make very briefly is, as we are talking about the difference in workload, we at the Supreme Administrative Court are proportionate to our colleagues at the Supreme Court of Cassation. If last year's coworkers have closed 9,000 cases, we've decided 16,000. If this is not a different workload, I do not know what it should be, given that the state number of the Supreme Administrative Court is lower than the Members of the Supreme Court of Cassation. At the moment, on my way here, I've checked that we've closed 9500 cases for this year, that is, half a year more than my colleagues at the Supreme Court of Cassation. I'm saying this, not to say in any way that my colleagues at the VCC aren't working. I mean, we're overworked in our work, but nevertheless the Supreme Administrative Court's acts are written 95% within one month. Plus all the other proceedings in our court are such that they concern urgent and quick pronouncements. That is to say, we are entering a firehouse, both during the electoral process and in connection with public procurement and in connection with the Zuzesif?? Despite the enormous workload, the Supreme Administrative Court takes account of some infinitely good results which I am proud to report to you and do so with satisfaction. With regard to administrative justice, thanks to the reform that took place last year in the National Assembly with the amendments to the Administrative Procedure Code, thank God, there has been a reduction in the workload of the Supreme Administrative Court and a more equal burden on administrative courts. This is already felt and will be the subject of the report that we will present to you next year in relation to the activity in this year. Even the least burdened administrative courts, which were reported shortly ago, are towards the district average courts, which means that administrative justice in general, apart from being the fastest administration, since last year we have climbed from fourth to third place on the European Union's judiciary map, it is also quality. What we are debtors to society is only and only the interpretation activity, but this is yet to form interpretation matters in relation to all the laws that remain at one instance. This is important in order for there to be an interpretation of these laws, which are pronounced only at one instance in the administrative court, so that there is more clarity in the application by both the administrative authorities and the courts. If there are any questions, I'm ready to answer them. Thank you for your attention. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I may have unwaryly closed the debate before I gave you the floor, so we proceed to vote on the report presented by the Legal Commission's Opinion and convincingly by the President of the Supreme Administrative Court. I will recall the text of the decision to be voted on: ? RESPONSIBILITY? adopting a Report on the application of the law and the activities of administrative courts in 2018 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report on the Implementation of the Law and the Activity of Administrative Courts in 2018 Please, voting mode. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. That's how the decision was adopted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: Report on the application of the Law and on the operation of the Procurature and the Research Authorities in 2018. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova, for the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u39	Dear colleagues! "COMMODITY" on a report on the application of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities in 2018, No 91-00-2, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 31 May 2019. At its meeting held on 13 June 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Report on the application of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities in 2018, No 911-00-2, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 31 May 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov, Chief Prosecutor of the Republic of Bulgaria, and Mr. Danail Kirilov, Minister of Justice. The report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating bodies in 2018 was presented by Mr. Tsatsarov. The report contains summary data on the activities of the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office, the National Investigation Service and the prosecutions, as well as on the activities of the investigating police officers, the investigating military police officers and the investigating customs inspectors. An analysis of the main indicators compared to territorial structures and analysis of types of crimes has been carried out. Trends have been outlined in the main directions in the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and measures and legislative changes have been proposed to address identified difficulties in law enforcement. Issues concerning cases of particular public interest concerning corruption and organised crime, crimes related to the involvement of the European Union's financial interests, human trafficking, tax and financial crimes are discussed. Information on the judgments against the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria is presented on the basis of the Law on the liability of the state and the municipalities for damages. In 2018 there was a decrease in crimes by 9.8% compared to the previous year and by 7.3% compared to 2016. The total number of registered crimes in the country in 2018 was 96 187 and in 2017 they were 106 659, and in 2016. " 103 773." The solved crimes during the reporting period were 44 294, in 2017. In 2016, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. "Negotiate" 49 460. The crime detection rate in 2018 was 46%, with an increase of 2.3% compared to 2017 and a decrease of 1.6% compared to 2016. And in 2018 the crimes against ownership were dominated by 46.8%, followed by the common dangerous "27.7%," the economic and the crimes against the individual. The report states that the main criminal factors determining the level of crime are related to the depopulation of small settlements and the level of poverty in them, the intensive migration to large cities and the low level of education of many individuals. In 2018, prosecutors in the country worked a total of 275 979 files and 213 109 pre-trial proceedings. In comparison, in 2017, prosecutors worked on 295,763 files and 211,045 pre-trial proceedings. There is a high share of the investigations completed within the deadline, which for 2018 was 99.63%, with 97.79% for 2017 and 99.97% for 2016 and there was a decrease in the suspended pre-trial proceedings by 5.9% compared to the previous year and 16.7% compared to 2016. The suspended limitation cases in 2018 were 43 950, and in 2017 they were 39 067 and in 2016. 36,612. The prosecutors' act brought to the court in 2018 was 30,499, of which 15 299 indictees, 10,712 agreements and 4488 decrees with a proposal for penal discharge and the imposition of administrative punishment. For comparison, the prosecutors' act submitted to the court in 2017 was 33 542 and in 2016. The decrease is 9.1% compared to 2017 and 11.6% compared to 2016. The persons subject to trial in 2018 were 33 318 and in 2017 and 2016 they were 37 087 and 38 469 respectively. The persons convicted and sanctioned by an entry into force of a judicial act in 2018 are 31 205 in total and for 2017 they are 33 778 and for 2016. 34 454 persons. During the reporting period, there is a significant reduction in the relative share of the cases returned by the court in relation to the acts submitted, which for 2018 is 3,3%, for 2017. "4.7%', and for 2016 4.9%. The relative share of acquittals compared to the number of prosecutorial acts submitted for 2018 is 3.1%. The main groups of reasons for the return of the cases are: the admission of the pre-trial proceedings to remedy a material breach of procedural rights - 38,7% of the total number of returned cases - found by the court deficiencies in the preparation of the indictment - 32%; an agreement not approved by the court, submitted pursuant to Art. 382 of the PPC.18.2%; found by the court absence of the grounds under art. 78a of the NK, when the case is filed in accordance with Article 78a of the NK. 375 of the PPC "9,4%," and non-removal of obvious factual errors "1.7%." The analysis of the reasons for the acquittal in 2018 shows that the highest proportion of the acquittal is the acquittal given due to conflicting caselaw, a change of the dominant practice or other circumstances relating to the interpretation of the law, followed by the acquittal sentences given due to the incorrect qualification of the indictment of 26.1%. Next are the acquittal sentences given due to the collection of new evidence in the judicial phase which could not be established at pre-trial proceedings.. 25.7%, as well as due to deficiencies, errors or passiveness in the collection of evidence in pre-trial proceedings.. 18.7%. At least acquittal sentences have been given due to omissions and procedural passivity of the prosecutor in the judicial phase or non-submitting to a relevant protest of 1.6% of all acquittal sentences. The Attorney General has filed 152 requests under art. 422, para. 1 points 4 "6" of the PPC for the reopening of criminal cases, of which 87 are respected, 8 are disrespectful and 57 are unexamined. The judgment decisions against the Prosecutor's Office on the basis of art. 2 of the State and municipal liability law are 302, and for 2017 these decisions are 280. With regard to cases of particular public interest, there is an increase of 12% compared to 2017 and 16.6% compared to 2016, while the share of convicted persons with a valid judicial act remains high in relation to all persons with a final decision, which is 95%. The report states that the existing arrangements of the competitions do not allow for the timely permanent solution of the needs arising, which requires the use of the Institute of Posting. The focus is on the need for personnel provision with investigative police officers in the Ministry of Interior, their professional training, career development and operational autonomy, as well as material and technical security. Attention is paid to the need for a comprehensive update of the substantive legal framework that corresponds to the current socio-economic conditions and technological development. Mr. Tsatsarov noted that in 2018, the prosecution sent 1179 legal aid applications, issued 404 European arrest warrants and received 2438 legal aid applications from other countries and 284 European arrest warrants. The Prosecutor General emphasized on the positive trends in the changes in the judicial map in 2018 related to the closure of district prosecutions and their transformation into territorial units and added that the same approach is envisaged for 29 more district prosecutions. He also paid attention to the low workload of military prosecutors and investigators, as well as military judges. Mr. Tsatsarov pointed out that in 2018 the employees of the Bureau of Defense of the Prosecutor General worked on the protection of 27 witnesses, of which 12 In the discussion of the report took part the MPs Hamid Hamid, Dessislava Atanasova and Pencho Milkov. In response to Mr. Hamid's question, Mr. Tsatsarov said that the changes in the PPC from 2017 have endured the main verification of compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria as well as the practical verification. In response to Mrs. Atanasova's question, Mr. Tsatsarov pointed out that the amendments in 2018 gave a new philosophy to the Witness Protection Program and proposed that the implementation of the protection of prosecutors and investigators in direct danger to their life and health should be assigned to the Bureau of Protection. In response to Mr. Milkov's question about the measures taken to identify and detain convicted persons whose sentences have not been implemented, Mr. Tsatsarov said that the non-executed sentences represent 2% of all convictions and added that it is envisaged the establishment of an institution for interaction between the authorities of the Ministry of Justice and the authorities of the Ministry of Interior with regard to the documentary exchange and detention of persons. Following the debates held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 16 votes for abstention and non-containee, supported the Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities in 2018, No 911"2 submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 31 May 2019 and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision on it with the following wording: Project! DECISION adopting a Report on the application of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities in 2018 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts a report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating bodies in 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. I open the debate on the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Are there any Members of the National Assembly who wish to speak? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Dear Prosecutor General, will you be referring to the Report on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating bodies and also to the opinion of the Legal Commission? You have the floor, Mr. Tsatsarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u41	Dear Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Thank you for giving me the opportunity to present to you today the report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigative bodies in 2018. This report has been drawn up on the basis of art. 138a, para. 1 of the Law on the Judiciary and covers the work of the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office, the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, the National Investigation Service, the territorial and specialized prosecutors, the National Bureau of Bulgaria in Eurojust and the Bureau of Witness Protection of the Prosecutor General. The report also contains summary information on the work of the investigating authorities in the composition of the Ministry of Finance and in the composition of the Ministry of Defence during the accounting year. The report is sufficiently bulky, published a sufficiently long time ago of general public access on the Prosecution's website. It was discussed in detail in the Legal Commission. The Chair of the Legal Commission has presented it now with numerous statistics and key indicators. Therefore, with your permission, I will save all these statistics, as it has been presented to you and I feel it is absolutely unnecessary to repeat it. With your permission, I will only refer to two indicators. One of them is the percentage of the acquitted persons - 2.7%, which is actually an attestation for good work. The second indicator for me, which determines the quality of our work, actually concerns the returned cases and, if in 2018, the percentage of the acquitted persons was 2,7%, the return of our imported acts in the accounting year compared to those imported was 3,3% of all imports. Or in 2018, the court returned 1051 cases to the Prosecutor's Office, which is a reduction compared to 2017 by 35.1%. I would say that this particular indicator is also an assessment of the quality of the work not only of the Prosecutor's Office, but first of all for the quality of the work of the legislator, because this particular indicator showed that changes in the Criminal Procedure Code, in force from November 2017, have endured the verification of time. They also endured the anti-constitutional check, as the Constitutional Court rejected requests to declare them unconstitutional, submitted by both the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Council of Law. In fact, this conclusion concerns all amendments to the PPC, including the powers of the Specialized Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office. In 2018, Parliament adopted an amendment to the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in criminal proceedings. It was they who put the work of the Bureau of Protection to the Attorney General on a whole new basis, creating a witness protection programme in line with the best European practices. During the accounting year, this bureau has secured the security of 27 witnesses, their relatives and relatives, I dare say, without any incident. The Report, put to your attention now, also takes into account the beginning of the process of optimization of the structure of district prosecutors, which began with the closure of the first eleven of them and the creation of territorial compartments in the respective cities. Dear Members of Parliament, allow me, among other things, to use this parliamentary tribune to thank you. To thank my fellow prosecutors, investigators, law enforcement officers, law enforcement officers at the D.A.'s Office. I think they deserve this gratitude before you for all your work and their efforts, and thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-26.u42	Thank you, Mr. Attorney General. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs from the couloirs. We are going to vote on the Decision, which the Project has been reported on, and I will read it again: Project! DECISION adopting a Report on the application of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities in 2018 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts a report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating bodies in 2018 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The decision's been made. Dear Mrs. Tochkova, Dear Mr. Magdalenchev, Dear Mr. Tsatsarov, thank you for participating in today's work of the National Assembly. Of course, thanks to Mr. Panov and Mr. Cholakov, Presidents of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Administrative Court. Dear Members of Parliament, with the completion of item 5th of the weekly programme, we have completed the work for today. The next meeting is June 27th, 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
