ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, today at the Conference of Presidents on a proposal from the Members of the European Union as they have introduced a draft decision for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly, at their request we have decided to make this a second point in today's programme. I will now read to you the National Assembly's Work Programme for November 20, 2019: "1." Release of a Member of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data. An application for exemption from Tsvetlin Sophronium was submitted on 13 November 2019. 2. Draft decision to elect Vice-President of the National Assembly. Importers are Valentin Kasabov and Iskren Veselinov, 19 November 2019. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 9 October 2019. The first vote was adopted on 6 November 2019. 4. Projects of decisions on changes to Standing Committees. Importers are Valentin Kasabov and Iskren Veselinov, 26 September 2019, 13 November 2019, 14 November 2019 and 15 November 2019. 5. Draft Decision amending the National Assembly decision on the award of the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit on the compliance of the information provided by the Ministry of Defence to NATO relating to Bulgaria's defence expenditure under the NATO classification and requirements. Importer is the Committee on Budget and Finance, 15 November 2019. 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 6 November 2019. 7. Second vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for Damage. A joint project drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of the bills adopted at the first vote on 29 May 2019 with importers: Iglika Sabeva, Anna Alexandrova, Maria Ilieva and Dimitar Lazarov, 12 April 2019; Hamid Hamid, 18 April 2019. 8. Second vote on the Marks and Geographical Indications Bill. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 6 June 2019. Adopted in the first vote on 27 June 2019. 9. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 26 August 2019. 9. Draft decision to award state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 4 November 2019. Point 1 for Friday 22 November 2019 11. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the proposed draft programme. Vote 184 MPs: 134 against 17, abstention 33. The motion is accepted. Bills and draft decisions for 13 November 2019 Please, Mr. Shopov, tell me what procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u2	The procedure is as follows. Madam President, as the work programmes are provided to the National Assembly, from them very often for some time, and has not been so in previous editions of the National Assembly had a specificization. At such supposedly formal points, as point two and fourth, there was some vision given to the MPs about what they refer to. As they have formulated: "Project for a decision for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u3	You have documents that have been distributed. Documents have been issued, Mr. Shopov, you have them on the site.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u4	We haven't been dealt, we don't know. Point four: "Project of a decision on changes in Standing Committees." Let this be noted here and for the future to be known because we do not know. We enter the Chamber, we find the banks the programs, and from now on, many of us guess. Yeah, some know, some are told, some have heard, but some don't know, and it hasn't always been like that. That's what I mean. Let's mark and say what these points contain. Otherwise, we vote all... So, look, in each of the following points, there is some clarification about a bill, a draft decision, about what, the name and we are aware of what we are voting as an agenda. Now many of my colleagues, I am sure if I ask them what you are voting for, colleagues, what these points mean, they will not answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. The e-mails of the MPs are sent out exactly what will be discussed this week, so check your email address. The documents are properly sent to your emails and are also available on the website of the National Assembly. Bills and draft decisions for the period 13 November 2019: Draft decision on a change in the composition and management of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Importers are Valentin Kasabov and Honest Vesselinoff. A bill to amend and supplement the Tax Procedure Insurance Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The lead committee is the Committee on Budget and Finance. It is allocated to the Committee for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft decision to complete the composition and management of the Committee on Environment and Water. Importers are Honest Veselinov and Valentin Kasabov. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Commission on Religions and Human Rights. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Culture and Media. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Culture and Media. Draft decision and change in the composition of the Committee on Culture and Media. These are Mr. Veselinov and Mr. Kasabov's suggestions. Draft decision amending the National Assembly's decision to award the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit on the compliance of the information provided by the Ministry of Defence to NATO related to Bulgaria's defence expenditure under the NATO classification and requirements. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the importer. Draft decision to elect Vice-President of the National Assembly. Importers are Valentin Kasabov and Honest Vesselinoff. Messages: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, that for the period from 18 to 27 November 2019 a joint preparation will be held in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria with a formation of the Joint Command of Special Operations with the Forces of the Special Operations of Romania. Forces and funds from the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria will participate in the preparations, as well as soldiers from the special operations forces of Romania with equipment and equipment. The preparation is not related to military operations and preparatory actions to conduct upcoming military operations, as well as to carrying out activities to prevent military actions led by other (other country or organisation) armed forces. The provisions of the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria are notified to the competent state authorities. 2. In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, by its order he has authorised: 1. The dispatch and use of a helicopter and crew of military personnel from the Air Force to carry out flights to provide air transport and a bus to provide ground transport to soldiers from the military formation of Krumovo, by route: Krumovo Airport, Petrovac Airport, Skopje Republic of Northern Macedonia, Krumovo Airport, on 2, 6, 9 and 13 December 2019. 2. The deployment of troops from the Military Formation of Krumovo, to the Centre for Pilot Training of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, Petrovac Airport, Skopje, between 2 and 6 December and 9 to 13 December 2019. The relevant competent state authorities have been notified in accordance with the provisions of the law. The notifications were received on 15 November 2019 with entry No 902-09-74, entry No 902-09-75, and were submitted to the Defence Committee. On 19 November 2019 the Programme format of the budget of the Ministry of Defence for 2020, the parameters of which correspond to the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020 and the updated medium-term budget forecast for the period 2021. The material is provided to all Standing Committees and is available in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to point one: EXEMPTION OF THE COMMISSION'S MEMBER FOR THE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA. From the President of the Commission, Mr Karadjov to me has arrived a letter concerning an application for the dismissal of a member of the Commission for the protection of personal data: Dear Mrs. Karayancheva, I submit an application to the Commission for the protection of personal data with an entry No RD-07-1 from 13 November 2019 by Mr. Tsvetelin Sophronium for early termination of his mandate as a member of the Commission for the protection of personal data by a decision of the National Assembly at his request. We've got one. "Admission' By Tsvetlin Nikolov Sofronov protection of personal data Dear Ms. Karayancheva, Please allow me to be dismissed from the office of Member of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data on the grounds of art. 8, para. 4 t. 2 (a) (b) of the Personal Data Protection Act. (c) I will also read you the draft decision of the National Assembly, then I will give you the floor for speeches. Project! DECISION exempting a Member of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 7, para. 2 of the Personal Data Protection Act and application for exemption HAS DECIDED Releases Tsvetlin Nikolov Sophronium as a member of the Commission for Personal Data Protection. Colleagues, you have a say in this. I don't see any desire to make a statement. I put to the vote the so-read draft decision to release Mr Sophronium as a member of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data. Please, voting mode. They voted 170 MPs: for 170, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point two: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A LOCAL PRESENT OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Importers: Valentin Kasabov and Iskren Veselinov on 19 November 2019 "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 4, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, we are submitting a draft decision for the election of Vice-President of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Importers: Valentin Kasabov and Honest Vesselinov. I'll read to you: Project! DECISION on the election of Vice-President of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 4, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly and the Decision on the Adoption of Rules of Procedure for the Election of Vice-Presidents of the Forty-fourth National Assembly HAS DECIDED He chose Valeri Simeonov Simeonov from the parliamentary group [[(PEOPLE OF DPS:) Who?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] as Vice-President of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. [[(Voices: "Eee! ") The MPs of the DPS are leaving the plenary room. A line from the National Representative Hamid Hamid: You are not ashamed!]] Colleagues, will someone introduce Mr. Simeonov? I can't see. Statements? Mr. Shopov has a statement. Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! Unlike the DPS, we from the Ataka will not leave the room, we will not leave, but we will remain to say what we have. We remain to say that, in fact, this departure is a dubious conflict with Simeonov and NFSB for his legitimization. What is happening today with the proposal for his election as Vice-President of the National Assembly is a logical continuation of everything that has been done in recent months by NFSB and VMRO, and also by GERB, who have been pleasing and agreeing with everything they have asked of them. Flagrant violations of the Rules and of the Constitution were made with the removal by the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the highly respected and parliamentarians, and lawyer Mr. Notev. After this step by step, it came to the disgrace today to be proposed as Vice-President of the Bulgarian National Assembly a failed Deputy Prime Minister. I don't know the thousands who protested against him last year and who wanted his resignation. These were national protests, perhaps the most powerful protests in this Parliament's mandate. What will they think and what will they say? It became something like in communist times: he was shot down by Deputy Prime Minister Simeonov to pass, as he was called, at another job. What? Vice-President of the Bulgarian National Assembly. We will continue the work of the forty-fourth National Assembly of thorns, I tell you, awaiting another miscarriage, awaiting another failure. There was once a MP who, in Berovo time, was named Nencho, I think, had asked the emblematic question: What is this country in which I will be Deputy Prime Minister? Moreover, what is this country where Mr. Simeonov, with all his past and present, will be Vice-President? In this National Assembly, this is how changes are made with the leadership of the National Assembly. We have bright examples of this: and the Vice-President from BSP, just like that, and our previous esteemed colleague Mr. Glauchev, just like that, because Tsvetanov had an idea because someone in this room decided. We will continue openly until the end of this National Assembly to bring down and upload in a whim, with a light hand, without complying with the Rules, without complying with the Law, without complying with coalition agreements that are of great importance, because they are not only a matter of political interest, they are also moral. They are imperatives that we should be taught as politicians to respect, to work on them, because we have obviously not reached this level. Thank you very much, Madam President, for giving me the floor anyway. Because last time here on a similar occasion and issue, in a resignation of Mr. Volen Siderov, Mr. Hristov.. You were not in the Chamber then, if you have noticed, did not give the floor for speech. [[Loud noise and shouts: "Eee!"]] Then, when Mr. Siderov was not given the word to speak in order to make it perhaps clear to many of you and to many Bulgarians what it was about, that it was a matter of honor, it was a question of valor. [[Noise and lines.]] It was a question of...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u7	Mr. Shopov, the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u8	...show moral qualities. To see some political actions and deeds why are they being done, what are the considerations?! You didn't give the floor. So thank you for giving me the floor. Thank you, Mr. Shopov. You'll always have the floor. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to your attention the draft decision that I have just read about the election of Valeri Simeonov Simeonov from the parliamentary group "United Patriarchs" as Vice President of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Please vote. They voted 130 MPs: 118, against 6, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Congratulations, Mr. Simeonov! Moving on to point three: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR CORPORATE SUB-ROADING. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 9 October 2019, adopted in the first vote on 6 November 2019. Mrs. Stoyanova, are you going to introduce us to the report?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u9	Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Lyudmila Petkova, Director of the Tax Policy Directorate and Mr. Georgi Alexandrov, Deputy Director of the Customs Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u10	Please, voting regime for admission of the persons whom Mrs. Stoyanova read. 135 MPs voted: 132, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u11	On 9 October 2019 the Council of Ministers submitted a report on the amendment and supplement of the Corporate Income Tax Act, No 902-01-52, adopted by the Council of Ministers on the first vote on 6 November 2019. "Project 2nd vote. The Law of Corporate Income Tax Law was amended and supplemented by the Law of Corporate Income Tax. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u12	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name and § 1 supported by the Commission. Vote 119 MPs: 118, against no, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u13	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u14	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2 supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 82, against 2, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u15	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 2a. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. Article 7 shall be inserted in Chapter 7. 33a: Costs of repairing technical infrastructure elements.. public state or public municipal property Art. 33a. (1) The costs of repairing technical infrastructure elements which are public or public municipal property under law and related to the activity of the taxable person shall be recognised for tax purposes, including if the technical infrastructure elements are also available for use by other entities. (2) In cases where for repair under para. 1 remuneration is agreed, including where remuneration is determined in whole or in part in goods or services, the general order of the law applies.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u16	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 3 supported by the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: 84 against 1, abstention 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u17	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for the establishment of § 2b. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43, para. 4 t. 1 sentences are created second and third: If the lease/credit is guaranteed or secured at the same time by the lessor/borrower and a related person, the interest costs shall not include the part of the interest costs of the financial lease/bank loan determined by multiplying the total cost of interest on the lease/credit by the ratio between the market price of the collateral provided by the lessor/borrower fixed at the date of granting the guarantee and the amount of the lease/credit, where the ratio exceeds 1, the same shall be considered to be equal to 1; in the event of a change in the amount of the collateral or the amount of the lease/credit, the preceding sentence shall apply respectively from the time of the change.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u18	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 4 which the Commission supports. They voted 99 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 21. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u19	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for the establishment of § 2c. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 47c the following "1." In para. 1, t. 2 in the beginning, after the words the actual profit corporate tax is commaed and added, including by means of advance contributions or overpaid corporate tax. 2. In para. 4. (a) c. 1 after the words..... is added for its activity or part thereof................................................................................................................ (b) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." A controlled foreign company which is: (a) a foreign entity and its activities in the country in which it is resident for tax purposes or in another country are subject to alternative forms of taxation; (b) a place of business abroad which is subject to alternative forms of taxation for its activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u20	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 5, supported by the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: 74, none, abstention 27. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u21	According to § 3 an importer there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 6, and shall propose the following wording: ........................................................... Chapter 9 is created in Part Two with art. 47 e "47k: ? Chapter Nine??? Specific rules for determining the tax financial result in cases of hybrid discrepancies and non-compliance with a taxable person resident for tax purposes of more than one jurisdiction Hybrid non-compliances Art. 47f. (1) Hybrid non-compliance is present in cases where: 1. payment under a financial instrument leads to deduction without inclusion and: (a) the same payment is not included in the beneficiary's tax financial result in its tax period starting within 12 months from the end of the payer's tax period; and (b) the non-compliance is due to differences in the qualification of the instrument or its payments under the laws of the jurisdictions of the payer and of the consignee; 2. a payment to a hybrid entity shall result in a deduction without inclusion and the non-compliance shall result from differences in the determination of the recipient of the payment between the laws of the jurisdiction in which the hybrid entity is established or registered and the jurisdiction of any person involved in that hybrid entity; 3. payment to an entity with one or more places of business leads to deduction without inclusion and non-compliance is the result of differences in the laws of the jurisdictions in which the entity operates when determining the recipient of the payment between the central management of the entity and the place of business or between two or more places of business of the same entity; 4. payment to a place of business not recognised for tax purposes leads to deduction without inclusion; 5. payment by a hybrid entity leads to deduction without inclusion as a result of non-recognition for tax purposes of payment under the laws of the jurisdiction of the recipient; 6. a conditional payment between the central management of an entity and its place of business or between two or more places of business of the same entity leads to a deduction without inclusion as a result of non-recognition for tax purposes of payment under the laws of the jurisdiction of the recipient; 7. leads to double deduction. (2) Payment representing the base return of a transferred financial instrument shall not result in a hybrid discrepancy under para. 1, t. 1 where it is carried out by a financial trader in connection with a market hybrid transfer and under the jurisdiction of the payer, the financial trader shall include in its tax financial result any amounts received in relation to the transferred financial instrument. (3) Hybrid discrepancy according to para. 1, t. In so far as the legislation of the jurisdiction of the payer allows for deduction against income that is not double-linked income, the amount of income is available. (4) A non-compliance shall be treated as a hybrid non-compliance only where it arises between a taxable person and its related undertaking, between other related undertakings, between the central management of an entity and its place of business, between two or more places of business of the same entity or within the framework of a structured arrangement. Accounting expenses not recognised for tax purposes and amounts related to payments in case of hybrid discrepancies Art. 47g. The accounting expenditure shall not be recognised for tax purposes, but the amounts shall increase the accounting financial result in determining the tax financial result in so far as the accounting costs and amounts related to payments for hybrid discrepancies are: 1. result in a double deduction, with the exception of cases of double included income in the current or subsequent tax period where the taxable person is: (a) investor; (b) the payer and the deduction is not refused in the investor's jurisdiction; 2. result in deduction without inclusion where the taxable person is a payer; 3. directly or indirectly finance a deductionable cost resulting from a transaction or a series of transactions between connected undertakings or as part of a structured arrangement, unless an equivalent adjustment has been made under the legislation of one of the jurisdictions involved in the transaction or in the series of transactions, but only up to the amount of the adjustment. Accounting revenue and amounts leading to an increase in the accounting financial result related to payments in case of hybrid discrepancies Art. 47z. (1) Where a taxable person is a recipient of a payment for a hybrid non-compliance leading to a deduction without inclusion, the amount of the payment shall be recognised for tax purposes either as an accounting income recognised for tax purposes or as an amount increasing the accounting financial result when determining the tax financial result, in so far as the same is deducted in the jurisdiction of the payer. (2) Paragraph 1 shall not apply in the case of art. 47f, para. 1, t. 2 - 4 and 6. (3) In so far as a hybrid discrepancy involves income from a non-taxable place of business which is not subject to taxation in the country, the accounting financial result of the taxable person shall be increased by the amount of income that is assigned to the place of business not recognised for tax purposes. A sentence shall first apply if income is not exempt from taxation under a double taxation agreement with a third country. Tax credit for withholding tax on payment related to hybrid transfer Art. 47th. A taxable person shall have the right, in proportion to the net taxable payment income, to a tax credit for tax deducted at the source of the payment relating to a hybrid transfer where more than one of the parties to the transfer is entitled to a tax credit for the same tax. Non-compliance with a taxable person resident for tax purposes of more than one jurisdiction Art. 47k. (1) To the extent that amounts relating to payment, costs or losses of a taxable person resident for tax purposes and of another jurisdiction result in a reduction in the tax financial result and in the other jurisdiction, such amounts shall not be recognised for tax purposes, in so far as the legislation of the other jurisdiction allows their deduction against income which is not double-linked income. (2) In the cases under para. 1 where the other jurisdiction is a Member State of the European Union, the amounts of payment, costs or losses shall not be recognised for tax purposes where the taxable person is resident for the other Member State under a double taxation convention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u22	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 3, which shall become § 6, on the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u23	They voted 91 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u24	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for the creation of § 3a. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create a new § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is It's five o'clock. the costs of the construction or improvement of technical infrastructure elements which, under law, are public state or public municipal property under art. 69a, para. 3................................................ Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for the establishment of § 3b. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create a new § 8: § 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53 para. 1 is amended as follows: The tax amortizable value is the historical price of the asset, reduced by the provisions and donations related to the asset included therein. In cases referred to in art. 64, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 67, Art. 69a, para. 3 the tax amortizable value is the sum of: 1. the subsequent costs - in the cases referred to in art. 64, para. 1; 2. the expenses not recognised for tax purposes in the cases referred to in art. Art. 67, Art. 69a, para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u25	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs 7 and 8 with the text of the two paragraphs under the Commission Report. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u26	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for the establishment of § 3c. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create a new § 9: ..................................................... Article 10 shall be inserted in Chapter 10. 69a: For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: Art. 69a. (1) The accounting costs for the construction or improvement of technical infrastructure elements which under law are public state or public municipal property and are related to the activity of the taxable person, including if the technical infrastructure elements are available for use and other entities are not recognised for tax purposes. (2) For the expenses under para. 1 which are capitalised as part of the value of an asset or registered as an independent asset, the order and requirements of this law shall apply. (3) The costs under para. 1 that are not capitalised as part of the value of an asset or not registered as an independent asset for the purposes of this law shall be treated and treated as an independent tax amortizable asset. The tax amortizable asset referred to in the preceding sentence shall be taken into the tax amortization plan from the beginning of the month in which the technical infrastructure elements are completed. For the purposes of art. 55 that tax amortizable asset shall be distributed in the category in which it would be distributed if the asset was own and written off from the tax amortization plan under the terms and conditions of art. 60, para. 1. (4) For subsequent costs which, under the accounting legislation, result in future economic benefits relating to the registered under para. 3 autonomous tax amortizable asset is applied art. 63. (5) Where, for the construction or improvement of technical infrastructure elements, public state or public municipal property is agreed remuneration, including where remuneration is determined in whole or in part in goods or services, para. 1 s 4 shall not apply and the general order of the law shall apply. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u27	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 9 with a text according to the Report and the text of the importer supported by the Commission for § 4, which shall become § 10. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u28	Under § 5 an offer by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of Members of the National Assembly shall be made. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 5 and shall propose on the basis of art. 50, para. 1 of Decree 883 on the application of the Law on Legislative Acts to create new § 11 ..................................................... The name of Chapter 20 shall be amended as follows: "Chapter 20 "Treaty regulation for transfers between part of one enterprise located in the country and other part of the the same enterprise located outside the country. ................................................................................... Article 155 is amended as follows: "Transfer of assets/activity to another part of the enterprise located outside the country Art. 155. (1) The taxable person shall apply art. 155a " 155d and art. 157 in cases where the Republic of Bulgaria loses, in whole or in part, the right to tax the result of subsequent disposal of transferred assets/activity in: 1. transfer of assets/activity from its central government in the country to its place of business located outside the country; 2. transfer of assets/activity from its place of business in the country to another part of the enterprise located outside the country; 3. transfer of assets/activity when changing the jurisdiction of which is resident for tax purposes from the Republic of Bulgaria to another jurisdiction; this item shall not apply to assets that continue to be effectively related to a place of business in the country; 4. transfer of an activity carried out through a place of business in the country to another jurisdiction. (2) The Republic of Bulgaria shall lose entirely the right to tax the result of subsequent disposal of transferred assets/activity in cases where a taxable person: 1. transfer assets/activity from its central management in the country to its place of business located outside the country and under a double taxation avoidance agreement, in respect of profits realised through the respective place of business, a method of progression shall apply; 2. transfer assets/activity from its place of business in the country to another part of the enterprise located outside the country; 3. changes the jurisdiction of which is resident for tax purposes from the Republic of Bulgaria to another jurisdiction, including for assets located in other parts of the enterprise located outside the country. (3) The Republic of Bulgaria shall lose in part the right to tax the result of subsequent disposal of transferred assets/activity where a taxable person transfers assets/activity from its central management in the country to its place of business and the applicable method of avoiding double taxation in respect of profits realised through the relevant place of business is a method of tax credit. ...... 13............................ 13. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 155 a.m., 155 a.m.: "Transfer of assets" Art. 155a. (1) In the case of transfer of assets under art. 155, in determining the tax financial result, the accounting financial result shall be: 1. increases with the positive difference between the market price and the value for tax purposes of the transferred asset at the time of the transfer; 2. reduces by the negative difference between the market price and the value for tax purposes of the transferred asset at the time of the transfer. (2) Value for tax purposes of a transferred asset shall be: 1. for tax amortizable assets the tax value of the asset at the time of the transfer; 2. for assets that are not tax amortizable assets the accounting value of the asset at the time of the transfer: (a) reduced by the amount of the tax temporary difference relating to the asset where it would have increased the accounting financial result in determining the tax financial result if the taxable person had ordered the asset, respectively, increased by the amount of the tax temporary difference relating to the asset, where it would have reduced the accounting financial result in determining the tax financial result if the taxable person had ordered the asset, and (b) reduced by the amount of the ex post valuation reserve (reval reserve) for the asset where the reserve is positive, respectively increased by the amount of the reserve where the reserve is negative; this point shall not apply to the reserve of subsequent valuations of financial assets of financial institutions where the accounting financial result has been converted in accordance with art. 97 with profits and losses from these ex post evaluations. (3) In cases where the transferred asset is written off as a result of the transfer: 1. with the tax temporary difference relating to the transferred asset and arising before the transfer, the accounting financial result in determining the tax financial result (not recognised for tax purposes), and 2. do not apply Art. Art. 45, Art. 66, para. 1 and 2 as regards the transferred asset. (4) Where the transferred asset is not written off as a result of the transfer, the following adjustments shall be made at the time of the transfer: 1. the tax amortizable assets are subject to an adjustment in the tax depreciation charged for the asset, so that after the adjustment the tax value of the asset is equal to its market price at the time of the transfer; in the event that the tax depreciation charged for the asset is insufficient to achieve the equality of the previous sentence, the tax amortizable value of the asset is also adjusted with the amount of the tax amortizable value of the asset after the adjustment; where the asset is not available in the tax depreciation plan, the taxable person shall take the asset into the tax depreciation plan with a tax amortizable value equal to its market price at the time of the transfer; 2. for assets that are not tax amortizable assets the difference between the market price of the transferred asset and its value for tax purposes at the time of the transfer forms a tax temporary difference from a subsequent valuation or corrects the tax temporary difference relating to the asset and arising before the transfer. "Transfer of activity" Art. 155b. (1) In the cases of transfer of activity under art. 155, in determining the tax financial result, the accounting financial result shall be: 1. increases with the positive difference between the market price of the transferred activity and the value for tax purposes of the transferred assets, reduced by the value for tax purposes of the transferred liabilities at the time of the transfer; 2. reduces by the negative difference between the market price of the transferred activity and the value for tax purposes of the transferred assets, reduced by the value for tax purposes of the transferred liabilities at the time of the transfer. (2) Value for tax purposes of a transferred asset shall be the value determined in accordance with art. 155a, para. 2. (3) Value for tax purposes of a transferred liability shall be the accounting value of the liability at the time of transfer, reduced by the amount of the tax temporary difference relating to the liability, where it would have reduced the accounting financial result when determining the tax financial result if the taxable person had repaid the liability, accordingly increased by the amount of the tax temporary difference relating to the liability, where it would have increased the accounting financial result when determining the tax financial result if the taxable person had repaid the liability.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u29	In cases where the transfer results in a transferred asset/liabilities being written off: 1. the tax temporary difference relating to the transferred asset/liabilities arising before the transfer does not change the accounting financial result when determining the tax financial result (not recognised for tax purposes), and 2. do not apply Art. Art. 45, Art. 66, para. 1 and 2 as regards the transferred asset. (5) The following adjustments shall be made at the time of the transfer where the transfer of a transferred asset/liabilities is not written off: 1. for tax amortizable assets the adjustment shall be carried out in accordance with Art. 1. 155a, para. 4 t. 1; 2. for assets that are not tax amortizable assets the adjustment shall be carried out in accordance with art. 155a, para. 4 t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. for liabilities, the difference between the market price of the transferred liability and its value for tax purposes at the time of the transfer shall form a tax temporary difference from an ex post valuation or shall be adjusted the tax temporary difference relating to the liability and arising before the transfer. Temporary transfer of assets Art. 155c. (1) Article 155 shall not apply where the transfer of assets is for a period not exceeding 12 months and provided that the transfer: 1. is related to securities financing transactions, or 2. is related to assets provided as collateral, or 3. shall be carried out to meet prudential capital requirements or liquidity management. (2) In case the assets under para. 1 shall not be transferred back to the Republic of Bulgaria within 12 months of the transfer, the provisions of art. 155 and Chapter 12 shall apply accordingly. Importation of the part of corporate tax related to the transfer of assets to a Member State of the European Union or to another Member State of the European Economic Area Agreement Art. 155. (1) The taxable person may defer the payment of the part of the corporate tax due as a result of a transfer of accidental or irregular nature of assets/activity under art. 155 but not more than the corporate tax payable for the relevant tax period where: 1. transfer assets/activity from its central management in the country to its own place of business located in a Member State of the European Union or to another State a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area; 2. transfer assets/activity from its place of business in the country to another part of the enterprise located in a Member State of the European Union or to another State a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area; 3. transfer assets/activity when changing the jurisdiction of which is resident for tax purposes, from the Republic of Bulgaria to a Member State of the European Union, or to another Member State, a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area; 4. transfer an activity carried out through a place of business in the country to a Member State of the European Union or to another State a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area. (2) Paragraph 1 shall apply to other countries which are parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area only in the event of a mutual assistance agreement concluded and entered into force with the Republic of Bulgaria or the European Union in the recovery of tax claims equivalent to mutual assistance provided for in Council Directive 2010/24/EU of 16 March 2010 on mutual assistance in the recovery of claims relating to taxes, charges and other measures (OB, L 84/1 of 31 March 2010.), hereinafter referred to as Directive 2010/24/EU. (3) The part of the corporate tax due as a result of the transfer of assets/activity under para. 1 shall be defined as the sum of the excess of the increases above the reductions referred to in Article 1. 155a, para. 1 and the excess of the increases above the reductions under art. 155b, para. 1 for transferred assets/actions during the year for which the deferral has been applied, shall be multiplied by the tax rate. (4) The deferred amount to be paid under para. 1 shall be distributed among transferred assets/activitys according to the following formula: A = B x B/D - "A" is the part of the amount allocated for the contribution under para. 1 distributed to the transferred asset/activity concerned; - The amount to be paid under para. 1; - The positive difference under art. 155a, para. 1, t. 1 for the transferred asset concerned, respectively the positive difference under art. 155b, para. 1, t. 1 for the transferred activity concerned; - The sum of the positive differences under art. 155a, para. 1, t. 1 and the positive differences under art. 155b, para. 1, t. 1 for all transferred assets/actions during the year for which the deferral has been applied. (5) The deferred amount to be paid under para. 4 distributed to each transferred asset/activity shall be paid in five equal annual instalments. The first instalment shall be paid within the time limit for the submission of corporate tax for the year of transfer. The remaining contributions shall be paid over the next four consecutive years within the period for the application of corporate tax for the year concerned. For contributions under the previous sentence, the taxable person owes interest under the Law on Tax, Fees and other similar State claims. (6) The taxable person shall exercise the right to defer under para. 1 with the annual tax return for the year of the occurrence of the fact under para. 1, in which it declares the existence of this circumstance. Upon request by a revenue body, the person shall be obliged to provide evidence of the existence of the fact. (7) The deferred amount to be paid under para. 4 distributed to the relevant asset/activity that has not become required becomes immediately required upon the occurrence of one of the following circumstances: 1. the person sold or otherwise ordered with a transferred asset/activity; 2. the person made a subsequent transfer to a country outside the European Union of a transferred asset; 3. a subsequent change has been made to the jurisdiction of which the person is resident for tax purposes or subsequent transfer of the activity to a country outside the European Union; 4. the person is in insolvency or liquidation proceedings; 5. the person does not make a contribution due within 12 months of the expiry of the deadline for submission under para. 4 for the corresponding contribution. (8) Alinea 7, p. 2 and 3 shall not apply where the subsequent transfer or subsequent change is to countries which are States Parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area and which have concluded and entered into force with the Republic of Bulgaria or the European Union an agreement on mutual assistance in the recovery of tax claims equivalent to the mutual assistance provided for in Directive 2010/24/EU. (9) In the event of any of the circumstances under Al. 7 the person shall notify in writing the territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency of the place of registration or the place where he was registered as a taxable person within 14 days of the occurrence of the relevant circumstance. (10) Alinei 1 s 9 shall not apply to transferred asset/activity for which the year of transfer under para. 1 and the year of occurrence of a circumstance under para. Seven is the same. Transfer of assets from another part of the enterprise, located outside the country Art. 155d. (1) In the case of the transfer of a tax amortizable asset from a part of the enterprise located outside the country to a part of the enterprise located in the country, the tax amortizable value by which the asset is taken into the tax amortization plan shall be its market price at the time of the transfer. (2) When transferring a tax amortizable asset from a part of the enterprise located outside the country to a part of the enterprise located in the country, if it is present in the tax amortization plan at the time of the transfer and the transfer of the asset has been involved in taxation in another Member State of the European Union, in accordance with art. 5 of Council Directive (EU) 2016/1164 of 12 July 2016 laying down rules against tax avoidance practices directly affecting the functioning of the internal market (OJ L 193/1 of 19 July 2016).) hereinafter referred to as "Directive (EU) 2016/1164', the taxable person responsible shall make an adjustment to the tax depreciation charged for the asset so that after the adjustment the tax value of the asset is equal to the value used as a market price in the application of Directive (EU) 2016/1164 in the other Member State. In the event that the tax depreciation charged for the asset is insufficient to achieve the equality referred to in the preceding sentence, the tax amortizable value of the asset shall also be adjusted with the amount of the shortfall. (3) In the case of a transfer of an asset which is not a tax amortizable asset from a part of the enterprise located outside the country to a part of the enterprise located in the country and in the event that at the time of the transfer there is a difference between the market price of the asset and the accounting value by which the asset is recognised as a result of the transfer, according to the accounting legislation in the country, the difference shall form a tax temporary difference from a subsequent valuation. (4) When transferring an asset which is not a tax amortizable asset from part of the enterprise located outside the country to a part of the enterprise located in the country, in case it is recognised for accounting purposes prior to the transfer under the accounting legislation in the country and the transfer of the asset has been involved in taxation in another Member State of the European Union, in accordance with art. 5 of Directive (EU) 2016/1164, the difference between the market price of the asset in the application of Directive (EU) 2016/1164 in the other Member State and the market price of the asset under art. 155a, para. 1 at the time of the previous transfer from the country formed a tax temporary difference from an ex-post valuation or corrected the tax temporary difference relating to the asset and arising before the transfer. (5) In the cases under para. 1 - 4 - where there is a difference between the price fixed for a market in the other country and the price fixed for a market by a revenue authority, the price fixed for a market by the revenue authority shall apply. (6) Alinei 1 and 3 shall also apply where a place of business in the country arises as a result of the transfer of assets. § 14. Article 156 is amended as follows: Transfer of services Art. 156. (1) In the case of the transfer of a service from a part of the undertaking located in the country to another part of the enterprise located outside the country, when determining the tax financial result for the year of the transfer, the accounting financial result shall be increased by the excess of the market price of the service at the time of the transfer above its cost shall be reduced by the excess of the cost of the service above its market price at the time of the transfer where no accounting income at market value has been reported as a result of the transfer and: 1. the specific transfer coincides with the usual transactions carried out through that part of the enterprise located in the country and directed to third parties, or 2. the normal activity carried out through this part of the enterprise located in the country consists of similar transfers to the other parts of the enterprise, or 3. the service is intended for realization in modified or unchanged form to another person. (2) Where, as a result of the transfer of a service from a part of the undertaking located in the country, to another part of the enterprise located outside the country which does not fall into the cases referred to in point (b). 3 of para. 1 is a written off asset, with the tax temporary difference relating to the asset and arising before the transfer, the accounting financial result in determining the tax financial result (not recognised for tax purposes) is not converted. (3) In the case of a transfer of a service from a part of the undertaking located outside the country to another part of the undertaking located in the country, where there is a difference between the market price of the service at the time of the transfer and the reported cost or the one to be reported in relation to the service, the difference shall be: 1. reduces the accounting financial result in determining the tax financial result for the year of recognition for tax purposes of the accounting cost in relation to the service where the difference is positive; 2. increases the accounting financial result in determining the tax financial result for the year of recognition for tax purposes of the accounting cost in relation to the service where the difference is negative. (4) Paragraph 3 shall apply where: 1. the specific transfer coincides with the usual transactions carried out through that part of the enterprise located outside the country and directed to third parties, or 2. the normal activity carried out through this part of the enterprise located outside the country consists of similar transfers to the other parts of the enterprise, or 3. the service is intended for realization in modified or unchanged form to another person. (5) When transferring a service from a part of the establishment located outside the country to another part of the establishment located in the country, other than those referred to in para. 4 where there is a difference between the amount of expenditure reported or the amount to be reported in relation to the service and the cost of the service, with this difference shall be: 1. increases the accounting financial result in determining the tax financial result for the year of recognition for tax purposes of the accounting cost in relation to the service where the difference is positive; 2. reduces the accounting financial result in determining the tax financial result for the year of recognition for tax purposes of the accounting cost in relation to the service where the difference is negative. (6) When the transferred service under para. 3 and 5 is capitalised in the value of a tax amortizable asset, the conversion of the accounting financial result under para. 3 and 5 shall be carried out in determining the tax financial result for the year of transfer. (7) Alinei 1 s 6 shall also apply in the case of other transfers made between parts of an enterprise located in the country and outside the country, respectively, which are not transfers of assets/activity under art. 155 or transfers of services. § 15. Art. 157 is amended as follows: Non-recognition of accounting revenue, expenditure, gains or losses Art. 157. (1) In case as a result of transfer under art. Art. 155a. 155b accounting income, expenses, profits or losses are accounted for, the same shall not be recognized for tax purposes. (2) In case as a result of a transfer which is not a transfer under art. Art. 155a. 155b of a part of the enterprise located in the country to another part of the enterprise located outside the country is reported accounting income, expenses, profits or losses, the same shall not be recognized for tax purposes where: 1. the accounting financial result is converted according to the order of art. 156, para. 1, or 2. the conditions of Article 2 are not fulfilled. 156, para. 1, t. 3. (3) Alinea 2, t. 2 shall not apply to accounting expenditure reported by a taxable person as a result of a transfer from its central management in the country to its place of business located outside the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I vote on the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs 11 to 15, with a text according to the Commission report. They voted 123 MPs: 122, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Ninova, you have the floor on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u31	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As you know, three districts in the country are in water mode and before the water crisis Pernik, Pleven and Lovech. Other areas are facing the same threat and the regional problem could become national. Your explanation is that there is not enough rain and the dams are empty. An investigation in Pernik proved that this is not true that the last years of precipitation there were much more than previous when there was no water regime. The reasons are other: the outdated water supply network with large losses, the water supply in extremely poor condition, also with huge water losses, the use of drinking water for industrial purposes, because it is cheaper for certain economic operators. What I am telling you, I will support with official data from the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. It takes into account the following: in 2016 the water loss was 60%. Sixty percent, guys! In 2017, unfortunately, it grows to 61,24%. That's nearly 550 million. cubic meters according to the National Statistical Institute. At the same time, the repairs to the water supply network according to these official data are 0,5%. In recent years you have constantly increased the cost of water for people. From January 1st this year in Shumen it reached BGN 3,40 in Varna, BGN 3,00 in Dobrich BGN 3,35 and in Vratsa and Montana itself the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission acknowledges that the price reaches socially unbearable levels and yet increases it. What's going on? Water losses grow in parallel with the increase in water prices. You collect more money than people, supposedly for investment in the water network and water quality, but instead of investments you get legit.. Legs and buckets to carry water in. How does that sound in the 21st century?! Why is this happening? Because for ten years the governance of the governments of Borisov treated this problem completely without fear. Dear ruling MPs of GERB, do you currently know which of your government is in charge of water reform? I don't think so. It was Nankov, then it was Malina Krumova, when you replaced Nankov, then you brought back Nankov again Nankov. Who is it now? You don't know, do you? Not only do you not know who is managing this reform, there is no reform! You're constantly collecting more and more money from people. No investments, poor quality of supply, poor quality of water. We suspect that this will happen in 2020. Again you will tell people: in order to have better quality and regular water in the 21st century, you have to pay even more. Well, how long? We demand that the Minister of Regional Development and the Minister of Environment come here today and tell us what you are doing. Three areas are in crisis, several more are in danger. So you're just gonna stand there and watch this crapless thing? We have our proposals, we will submit a question with signatures for debates. In the framework of these debates, we will propose our changes and actions, which you should finally do in ten years. And don't even think about a new increase in the price of water against the backdrop of the water network, the lack of government and the powerlessness you are currently demonstrating to deal with this problem. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Here you go, Mrs. Angelova. We're moving on.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u33	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 16. According to § 7 there is a proposal made by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 173 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "debted" shall be added to its full amount. 2. The creation of para. 6: In the case of a tax relief representing minimal aid or State aid to farmers, the corporate tax under para. 1 is due in the general order of the law, in the following dimensions: 1. for a tax relief representing minimal aid in the amount of the excess of the tax paid over the investment under art. 188, para. 3; 2. for a tax relief representing State aid to farmers in the amount of excess of the tax paid over 50 percent of the current value of the assets under art. 189b, para. 2, p. 1 set at the date of granting the aid; the interest rate for the purpose of determining the present value of the assets is the reference rate set by the European Commission at 31 December of the year of transmission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u34	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put two texts to the vote: the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 16, and the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 17 with the additions proposed by the Commission. [[Reference between the President and the expert.]] Correction: the text of the importer for § 7, which becomes § 17, is the version of the Commission report proposed by the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 112 against 1, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u35	According to § 8 there is a proposal made by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 8, which becomes § 18 by proposing in para. 4 t. 3 words the service is intended to be replaced by the reference of the transfer is intended. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for the establishment of § 8a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create a new § 19: "Seriously, I'm Article 3 is replaced by the following: 262b: Art. 262b. (1) A taxable person who fails to fulfil his obligation under art. 155d, para. 9 shall not fulfil it within a period, indicate or falsely indicate data or circumstances leading to the non-application of art. 155d, para. 7, is punished with a penalty of 3,000 to 5000 BGN. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 penalty is from 6000 to 10 000 BGN Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u36	That's it. Wait, don't present the proposal. Statements on the proposed text so far? I won't. I will put two texts to the vote: the text of the importer for § 8, which becomes § 18 with the proposal for replacement in the text made by the Commission and the Commission proposal for the creation of a new § 19 with a text under the Commission Report. Vote 107 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u37	Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: The creation of § 8a 8f: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 204, para. 1, t. 2, b. In the end, it is added to the list of accommodations and accommodations. ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 209 in the title and everywhere in the text, the words "food vouchers' shall be replaced by "food vouchers' and "nights'. ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 214 in the title is finally added to the title ..... 8d......................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 277a. all over the text, the words "food vouchers' shall be replaced by "food vouchers'. ....................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 277b. After the word "food', the "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says that The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u38	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Prodanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u39	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! What we propose is that these vouchers, which are familiar and are given to food workers, also apply to accommodations, that is, we want to give the workers a choice of how to spend their vouchers. What's happening to the vouchers right now? The workers get it. And where do they usually spend it? In the big grocery stores. What, though, do large retail chains do? In most parts they export money and profits outside Bulgaria. The meaning of our proposal is part of these funds, through vouchers, to stay in Bulgaria and thus to try to help small and medium-sized tourism businesses. What happens in a two-member family that gets vouchers? The man 60 BGN. And the woman, £60.? That's 120 leva. per month, which on an annual basis means about BGN 1500. This is money that is sufficient for this family in the summer to go and pay for the summer package holiday of one of the Bulgarian resorts Black sea, mountain, guest houses and so on. Thus, by supporting this proposal, these funds remain in the Bulgarian economy, remain in the Bulgarian business, are not exported abroad and to a large extent this is an exceptional aid for this kind of business. What does the Prime Minister even say? The border is clogged for Greece and Turkey with Bulgarians traveling to rest in Greece and Turkey. We are doing our best to stimulate and support, to make the Bulgarians stay to rest in Bulgaria. "Well, this is our proposal in this direction to make the Bulgarians, to give them a choice to make them stay in Bulgaria, to rest in Bulgaria, to spend their money in Bulgaria and to stimulate the Bulgarian economy. So I call on you to think once again and support this proposal of ours, because it would really help to a large extent tourism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u40	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 116 MPs: 44, against 32, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u41	Under § 9 there is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: In § 9 are created t. 1a 1c: 1a. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 35 after the word "food" is added. 1b. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 36 words "Food vouchers' shall be replaced by "food vouchers'; the Union shall be replaced by "food vouchers'; the Union shall be replaced by "food market outlets'; after them shall be replaced by 'food vouchers'. 1c. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 61 and 62 the words "food vouchers' shall be replaced by "food and accommodation vouchers'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 20, and shall propose the following version: .................................................................................. Paragraph 1 of the additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. Point 15 is repealed. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 84, in the text before b. I'm going to go after the words. 47c "seventh" is added to Chapter 9 and finally to the provision is added: For the purposes of Chapter nine, the following shall be added: In the case of art. 47f, para. 1, t. 2 - 5 and so on. Article 7 47g, t. 3 the 25 percent requirement changes to 50 percent. A person acting together with another person in respect of voting rights or ownership of the capital of an entity shall be treated as having any participation in any voting rights or ownership of the capital of that entity that has the other person. It is also an entity that is part of the same consolidated group for the purposes of financial reporting as the taxable person; an undertaking in which the taxable person has a significant influence in management; or an undertaking that has a significant influence in the management of the taxable person. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 85 is added after the words "Chapter 9'. 4. They're creating a t. 87 - 113: ..87. For the purposes of Chapter nine, no non-compliance is a double deduction or deduction without inclusion. 88. For the purposes of Chapter 9 the amount or the amount resulting from the reduction of the tax financial result under the jurisdiction of the payer or investor shall be the amount or the amount resulting from the reduction of the tax financial result. 89. For the purposes of Chapter 9, the amount or revenue resulting in an increase in the tax financial result under the right of the beneficiary's jurisdiction shall be included. Payment under a financial instrument shall not be considered to be included in so far as the payment is eligible for tax relief under the right of the beneficiary's jurisdiction. 90. For the purposes of point (c) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 89 is a tax exemption, a reduction in the tax rate or any tax credit or a refund of tax paid (other than a tax credit paid abroad). 91. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. In the case of payment by a hybrid entity or place of business, the jurisdiction of the payer shall be the jurisdiction in which it is established or registered or the hybrid entity is located or where the place of business is established or located. 92. A deduction of payment or conditional payment between the central management of an entity and its place of business or between two or more places of business of the same entity, in each jurisdiction where the payment or conditional payment is treated as being made (the payer's) without having the corresponding inclusion of the same payment or conditional payment in the jurisdiction of the beneficiary. The jurisdiction of the recipient shall be any jurisdiction in which the payment or conditional payment has been received or is deemed to have been obtained under the law of another jurisdiction. 93. For the purposes of Chapter nine, the total amount of income that is included under the legislation of the two jurisdictions where the non-compliance occurred is double included. 94. For the purposes of Chapter 9, the person or entity shall be a natural person or entity. 95. For the purposes of Chapter nine, a hybrid entity shall be considered an entity or arrangement, each of which is considered to be subject to taxation under the laws of one jurisdiction and whose income or expenses for tax purposes are considered as such to one or more other persons under the law of another jurisdiction. 96. A financial instrument for the purposes of Chapter 9 (b) shall be any instrument in so far as it results in a return on financing or on equity that is taxed under the rules on the taxation of debt instruments, equity instruments or derivatives in accordance with the laws of the jurisdiction of the recipient or of the payer and shall include a hybrid transfer. 97. For the purposes of Chapter Nine, the financial instrument shall be transferred where the base return of the transferred financial instrument is treated for tax purposes as received at the same time by more than one of the parties to that arrangement. 98. A hybrid transfer for the purposes of Chapter 9 is a hybrid transfer made by a financial trader in an occupation and not as part of a structured arrangement. 99. For the purposes of Chapter Nine, a financial trader is a person who carries out transactions with financial instruments on his own account for profit purposes. 100. For the purposes of Chapter nine, the structure of the Arrangement is an arrangement involving a hybrid non-compliance where the result of that non-compliance is taken into account when determining the terms of that Arrangement or arrangement which aims at a hybrid non-compliance. An arrangement meeting the conditions set out in the first sentence shall not be considered a structured arrangement if both the taxable person and a related undertaking cannot be expected to know about the hybrid non-compliance and have not benefited from the tax advantage resulting from that hybrid non-compliance. 101. A place of business not recognised for tax purposes for the purposes of Chapter 9 is any arrangement leading to the establishment of a place of business in another jurisdiction under the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria and which does not lead to the establishment of a place of business under the legislation of that other jurisdiction. 102. A consolidated group for financial reporting purposes is a group consisting of all entities fully included in the consolidated financial statements drawn up in accordance with the International Accounting Standards or the national financial reporting system of a Member State. 103. For the purposes of Chapter nine, payment shall include any expenditure or amount actually paid or for which there is an obligation to be paid and which, under the jurisdiction of the payer, is a cost recognised for tax purposes or an amount resulting in a reduction of the tax financial result. 104. "Transfer of assets/activity" for the purposes of art. 155 - 155d is an operation resulting in the Republic of Bulgaria forfeiting, in whole or in part, the right to tax the result of subsequent disposal of those assets/this activity, with the same assets/the same activity remaining/still legal or economic ownership of the same person. 105. "Change of the jurisdiction of which a person is resident for tax purposes and is present for the purposes of Chapter 20 when a person ceases to be a resident for tax purposes of the Republic of Bulgaria and becomes a resident for tax purposes of another jurisdiction. 106. "Transfering of an activity carried out through a place of business" for the purposes of art. 155, para. 1, t. 4 is available where a foreign legal person ceases to be subject to taxation in the Republic of Bulgaria through a place of business for the transferred activity and begins to be subject to taxation in another jurisdiction. 107. For the purposes of art. 156 is the cost of the service determined in accordance with the applicable accounting standards of the part of the undertaking located in the country. 108. For the purposes of Chapter 20, an asset shall be a resource controlled by the taxable person. 109. "Activity" for the purposes of point (c) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 104 et seq. 106 is the sum of the assets and liabilities of a taxable person with which, from an organisational, functional and financial point of view, an independent business may be carried out. 110. The elements of technical infrastructure are those within the meaning of art. 64 of the Law on Structure of the Area. 111. For the purposes of art. 33a is the activity of carrying out follow-up costs relating to technical infrastructure elements which do not lead to an economic advantage over that of their initially assessed standard efficiency. 112. For the purposes of art. Art. 48, Art. 69a is the activity of carrying out follow-up costs relating to technical infrastructure elements which lead to an economic advantage over that of their initially assessed standard efficiency. 113. For the purposes of art. 48 and 69a is an activity in the creation of new technical infrastructure elements, which includes the exploration, design and construction of new or the reconstruction of existing technical infrastructure elements.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u42	Thank you. Statements? I won't. Here you are, Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! To remind you that during the first reading, I noted that some of the texts hide no risks, but we will certainly lose budget revenues. In Brussels they have tried to offer us texts which, if we approve, mean that the large European and other companies operating in Bulgaria will increase their budget revenues due to these changes in tax legislation at the expense of the revenues in our budget. Therefore, in the Budget Committee and at the first reading I drew attention to the fact that our Ministry of Finance has not introduced you, honourable Members, to all as MPs, any estimates of what the effects on the budget will be. That is why we will vote against and invite you to vote against because we have no right to lose to the Bulgarian budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u44	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? Any other speeches? I won't. I am putting an end to the debate and I will put to the vote first the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs not supported by the Commission. They voted 100 MPs: 26, Against 55, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for a text of § 9 which becomes § 20. They voted 102 MPs: 77, against 23, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u45	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10 which shall become § 21. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs to create § 10a: The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create a new § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) Where the accounting expenditure for the construction, improvement or repair of technical infrastructure elements which are public or public municipal property under a law is wholly or partly treated for tax purposes as non-business costs or unrecognized donation costs, the amount of the non-recognized part of those costs may be taken as a separate tax amortizable asset for the purposes of that law if the following conditions are met at the same time: 1. the costs are charged/accounted for in the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2019; and 2. the construction or improvement of technical infrastructure elements are related to the activity of the taxable person, including where they are available for use by other entities. (2) The tax amortizable asset under para. 1 shall be taken into account in the tax amortization plan as at 1 January 2020. (3) For the purposes of art. 55 This tax amortizable asset shall be distributed in category I and shall apply Art. 1. 69a, para. 3.. 5 respectively..................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u46	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 10, which becomes § 21; the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision, and the Commission proposal for the creation of a new § 22, according to the Commission Report. They voted 108 MPs: 79, against 1, abstention 28. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u47	Under Paragraph 11, there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made to the transitional and final provisions: "1." Paragraph 11 shall make the following amendments and additions: a) before t. 1 create two new points: .. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 1 is created t. 30: 30. Income from employment of persons not over 26 years of age. ... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22c the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the colon after the words. The text shall be deleted by the end of the subparagraph and replaced by BGN 6000. for any minor, a child and a member of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of 2. The creation of para. 10: The monthly tax base under art. 42, para. 2 for employment benefits of beneficiaries of child tax relief is reduced by 500 BGN. for each child................ for every child............................. (b) Points 2a 2f shall be created: It's 2a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3 is created t. 3: "3." the tax relief for children under art. 22c, para. 10................................................ 2. Al. 4 is amended as follows: The amount of tax due shall be determined on the monthly tax base under para. 3 according to the following table. Next table. 2b. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43, para. 3 words multiplied by tax rate 10 per cent shall be replaced by a wager according to the table referred to in art. 48, para. 1.................................................................................. 2c. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Al. 3 is amended as follows: The amount of tax due shall be calculated as the difference under para. 1 shall bet according to the table referred to in Article 1. 48, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 2. In para. The fourth sentence, second sentence, shall be added to the tax rate of 10 per cent and shall be replaced by a bet according to the table referred to in art. 48, para. 1.................................................................................. 2d. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44a, para. The second sentence of the sentence shall be multiplied by the tax rate of 10 per cent and shall be replaced by a bet according to the table referred to in art. 48, para. 1.................................................................................. 2d. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The rate of income tax under art. Art. 37 and Art. 38, para. 1, 5, 10, 12, 14 and 15 is according to the table under art. 48, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 2. In para. 2 the number "s' is replaced by "seven' and, at the end of the sentence, after the word "years', a comma shall be placed and added to "seven' as well as for the incomes under art. 38, para. 11 and 13.................................................................................................. 3. Allinei 3 and 4 are canceled. 2f. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The amount of tax on the annual tax base for income from business, for rent income or other provision for the use of rights or property, income from other sources under art. 35 as well as on the common annual tax base under art. 17 is determined according to the following table. A table is attached. 2. The 9th.. 11th is being created. In determining the amount of tax on the total annual tax base for non-prepaid income from employment benefits, art. 42, para. 3. (10) If the person has not received benefits from employment relationships, his other income included in the total annual tax base shall be reduced before taxation by BGN 6000 for each minor, if the debtor has children and is not deprived of parental rights. The reduction shall be declared and used by one parent of choice. (11) The tax paid for the tax year may be deducted from subsequent advances and annual contributions to that tax due by a sole trader. Where it is established that the sole trader without justification deducts a tax on non-payments and annual contributions, interest shall be due under the Law on Interests on Taxes, Fees and Other Similar Government Claims. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u48	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u49	Mr. President, I am taking a procedure in the way that Mrs. Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly have proposed, because the way in which Mrs. Cornelia Nino's proposal was presented is not in line with what is written in this proposal. In fact, the most important part is missing the table and the numbers by which we propose to introduce proportional income taxation, the rest is one text. If you do not announce exactly what numbers we offer for each type of income what tax to be offered as we have done, you are actually doing nothing. In this way, you hide from the public what we offer, what tax is paid on, what incomes, how we protect the incomes of the poor and the middle population and benefit the richest. The other thing that is currently being done is an attempt to blur, so please very much let the rapporteur read the specific numbers in the table and the scale on which we propose that taxes be recalculated. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u50	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. We have no practice to read tables, tables to present, but I would not like to lower the MPs that they are not familiar with the text of the proposal, given that it has been discussed in the Commission. [[Comments from GERB and BSP for Bulgaria.]] Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Here they were just invited by the chairman of our parliamentary group Mrs Cornelia Ninova, the two ministers of regional development and public works and the environment and water, in connection with the water crisis that is happening in Bulgaria. Please inform us if you have contacted them, will they come to the National Assembly regarding their invitation to hear on the subject? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u52	Thank you. I have to apologize because there's obviously a misunderstanding. I was under the impression that you were inviting them to the debate and we expect you to submit the document for debate. I didn't get the impression they had to come now. That is what I have understood, that you will be putting forward a proposal for a debate, and we expect the proposals to come to invite them. [[Noise and lines.]] All right, I'll let them know. We are continuing the debate. Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The first change proposed by the BSP for Bulgaria in the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals is aimed at removing income tax from employment of persons not over 26 years of age. The aim of this change is to reduce fiscal burdens for young people who work on the basis of employment. Reducing the tax burden will allow young people to start work easier and, at the same time, will enable them to return to the labour market those who work in the grey sector. This will contribute to improving the professional activity rate of young people and reducing unemployment among this age group. It should not be forgotten that young people, when they start working, often leave the family home, create a new household that generates additional costs, such as renting a private home, at least minimum furniture, finishing their education or acquiring new skills and others. Therefore, the situation of young people is often more difficult than the situation of people who have already managed to settle in the labour market. I note that earlier this year, almost the same measure to reduce the tax burden for individuals up to 26 years has been adopted in Polish legislation and, of course, has been extremely supportive among young people in Poland. According to up-to-date information given to us by the Ministry of Finance for 2018, by the way, edited twice in less than one week from the Ministry of Finance itself, persons up to 26 years have paid a total tax of 161 million. 222,000. lv. The largest share of this amount, as you can think of, falls to persons with employment benefits up to BGN 1000. a month. In this group, the subgroup of persons who receive up to 560 BGN also has the largest share. Given the severe demographic situation in the country and the increasing number of young people leaving the country to seek better social conditions for themselves and for their families, we believe that such a measure is worth it and could be extremely important to overcome growing emigration among this age group. I believe that everyone who shares our opinion that the demographic crisis is one of those problems, the beginning of which should not be delayed, will support today our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u54	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. - What's the line? I won't. Mrs. Zheleva, come in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u55	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Our proposals for amendment in § 11 are related to tax relief for young people, young parents and young people, namely: exemption from income tax for the 26-year-olds, all young people up to 26 years of age; monthly tax base for income from employment relations for children is reduced by BGN 500. For each child, or a month a family can receive about 50 BGN. for one child and 100 leva respectively. for next. We have been criticised many times for offering incentives for young families through the social system, when the topic for Bulgaria was so commented on the demographic crisis. We are consistent because we have said that besides social incentives there must be other instruments. That is why today we are proposing this amendment through tax policy, because it is more effective, not only is it more effective, but also better in this case. I will give you a few examples, because these days, very often you give us examples of what policies there are in other countries. Regarding tax policy, Poland was mentioned. I mean, there are five-year tax breaks in Italy, besides Poland, for those young people who worked outside the country. And if they come back and choose to work in the country concerned, for example, as it is in Italy, they will receive this relief for the next two years. Hungary, we all know about their social policy and the tax relief of many children's mothers. In the US and Britain there is a tax credit for persons with a significant amount, much larger here, because there will probably be a tax relief here in a few minutes, and such an argument will be there as well. Britain also has a tax credit for each child until the age of 17. And there, as in the United States of America, it is much more significant and reaches 2780 pounds. Against the background of our policy at the moment to have tax relief for young families and for parents, well, notice, BGN 1.66. a month. Why is it better to have such incentives and to do so through the tax system? Because it stimulates responsible parents and does not create groups of communities that live on the back of the social system. These groups are then much more difficult to integrate into the labour market. Secondly, because through tax relief this is the easiest way to deal with a major problem for Bulgaria, and that is exactly what low incomes are. And last but not least, I would like to mention a personal belief that this is the right way, because every foster question from young people is: "Why don't we get the so-called children's supplements? We are young people who also pay taxes for this country and have the right to have some encouragement or relief for raising our children in Bulgaria. That's the fair way. I think that everyone here will support these young people also to receive support from not through the social system, through so-called children's supplements, but through tax relief. I would like to ask how the Members of the United patriots will vote here because, in the previous term of the National Assembly, they had the same proposal for tax relief for young families? I wonder if today you will support our proposal? Thank you. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. - What's the line? I can't see. You have the floor, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u57	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Our arguments for the introduction of progressive taxation are quite clear. Firstly, more than 90% of the UN member states have progressive taxation. There is none, there was no, there is no, and there can be no developed country with a flat tax. There is no such case and it is not possible economically. Secondly, according to Eurostat, honourable Members, Bulgaria is the country with the highest social polarization. For colleagues who are not economists, there is an index that uses Eurostat and the European Commission, called the Italian economist Corrado Gini, which shows how the national wealth is distributed: the lower the index, the fairer and evener it is distributed relatively, not equally. In the European Union is about 30, in Bulgaria is 40, the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary, Slovakia Re-allocation of tax receipts, the use of budgetary mechanisms is a must for the prevention of excessive polarisation. Thirdly, it is not necessary for a person to have studied economics to know that when you redeploy taxes so that you leave more money in the poor and in the lower middle class, you stimulate consumption in the economy at the expense of savings. Currently in Bulgaria, the savings clogged banks, as the economy does not have serious investment programs either by the state or are not enough in private business. Reassigning budget revenues to the benefit of lower income families will stimulate consumption of food and other essential goods, which would stimulate economic growth. Therefore, I suggest that we leave the group of the following countries, which are an exception in the UN and in the world as a flat tax, an impressive group of Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan and Mongolia, very romantic, very friendly countries. I wish you the best of luck with your choice!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u58	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Klisurska, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u59	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Bulgaria is the fastest-melting nation in the European Union - not only the fastest-melting, but also the poorest. The social division is extremely difficult because 75% of the Bulgarian population receives income close to the minimum wage. The demographic crisis can't be out of focus for all of us, and that's what I say every time I stand on this stage. Unfortunately, with today's proposals that we are considering, I do not see in the focus of the government how we will solve the problems in the rapidly melting Bulgarian nation. The demographic crisis, ladies and gentlemen ruling, is fighting tax policy. If we look at the statistics right now, what happens? Income tax and various types of insurance are up to 42%. Of these, 23.78% are at the expense of the employee, of which 13.78% are insurance, 10% are income tax, and the remaining 18.52% are the benefits paid by the employer. Always from this tribune, ladies and gentlemen ruling, you boast about the low taxes because of the flat tax, but when we compare the total taxation of the families in Bulgaria, it is evident that the Bulgarians pay much more taxes than most countries in the European Union. The picture changes dramatically when you talk about families with children. What is the situation in Bulgaria? At the moment, your policy, ladies and gentlemen, is related to supporting low income groups through the Family Aid Act for children. However, this has no impact on the active, working families who have chosen to work in Bulgaria. Last week, when we were looking at the state social security budget, I pointed out to you the Finance Minister's reply that a million 680 thousand people are currently receiving the minimum wage. These are active working people who do not receive any tax preferences for raising their children in Bulgaria. And the weight is increasing. These 42% are from the tax insurance system, but when we add the costs of these families for VAT, the costs of each of them on the minimum wage, which is extremely low, go below the poverty threshold. So we are currently putting everyone working at the bottom of the social table and giving no tax preferences. Our proposal relates to tax preferences for all who raise their children, all who work, and 50 BGN. They'll stay in every family that raises a child. Right now, BGN 1.66. relief per month for each family working and importing into the tax insurance system. Allow me, I have put in a figure that shows the Financial Ministry's report, and it is that generally such tax preferences last year amount to about a million leva, or 0.03% of the total tax revenue part of the state. Can you imagine what tax policy we have for young families?! I will also say a few words regarding our proposal for everyone under the age of 26 not to be taxed with 10% tax. Such a proposal was made in Poland. On August 1st, it was voted and entered into force. However, I would like to point out several other countries that are in the European Union and offer such tax preferences. In Italy, at the moment of July, there is a return policy for all young, active and working people, which enables everyone in the next five years, if they return to Italy, to receive relief up to 70% of their income, not to be taxed. In Britain, there are such tax preferences in the United States for young, active and working families. Only us, despite the screaming demographic crisis, the low social dissension must ultimately fight such policies from this tribune. So please reconsider your position and support our proposal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u60	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. - What's the line? You have the floor for a line, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've decided to take a line every time someone in this room with a loud voice starts to speak untruths to the MPs, hasn't prepared themselves and starts convincing us of something that is absolutely false. Bulgaria is not the country with the worst demographic crisis. Bulgaria does not come first in emigration. Bulgaria is facing a number of European countries. I'll tell you right now: check in Eurostat, open your computer right now, see where Lithuania is, see where Latvia is, Greece is ahead of us. Also open Eurostat to see what is the situation with youth unemployment up to 29 years of age. In Greece it is 39%, in France it is 20%, in Croatia it is 23% and so on. Bulgaria is among the last countries for youth unemployment. What are these things? What is it that Professor Gechev and Professor Gechev are not here now...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u62	I'm here.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u63	Is he here? I'm so sorry. I'm sorry. When she starts talking, Bulgaria is the poorest country... Mr. Professor, we have already replicated you a hundred times when Bulgaria was ahead of Hungary, when it was ahead of Romania only when they ate the chicken's legs at Ceausescu seven, eight years. Then they were... [[Noise and lines.]] Bulgaria has always been where it is now. Bulgaria has never been ahead of Poland or Slovakia or any of the countries. It's always been downhill. What are these just defeatist... And you're saying that?! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Do you have any idea that in Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u64	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Please finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u65	...the gross domestic product today is six times higher than in 90 years. Six times! Mr. Professor, check 1991 and now the gross domestic product is six times higher.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u66	Mr. Petrov, please finish. Thank you. Another line? Line, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u67	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I didn't mean to make that line, but when I hear what some people understand in this room of social and economic development are doing and what high goals some people are obviously setting here, I can't help it. Because when we talk, it's good to use data. And the data is still from the Ministry of Finance and shows the really deep social inequalities in our country. I would like to note that 76% of the people in Bulgaria who pay personal income tax are with an income of up to BGN 1000. 76% monthly! Those who pay this tax pay more than 35% of the total income tax of natural persons collected in the state treasury. Is it normal for the poorest to carry the highest weight? It's not a better situation for people up to 26 years old. There 98% of persons up to 26 years of age receive income up to 2000 BGN. The biggest tax burden actually falls on these people. So let's look for ways to solve social inequalities, because they are a fact in our country, not an excuse for how we should catch up with the third world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u68	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Is there a third line? No. A hole, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u69	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Petrov, I do not understand your line. Obviously, you are not concerned that Bulgaria is melting annually between 60 and 40 thousand people. I don't want to be at the bottom. I want to get rid of the bottom. I want us to have such a tax policy where young people have opportunities for higher incomes. Dear Mr. Danchev, thank you for the line you made me. You can't help but be startled by the figures that 80% of the Bulgarian population barely survives. Our proposals are related to Bulgaria, with support for the young, active and working people in Bulgaria and what you said in no way corresponds to the data of the National Statistical Institute nor will it improve the situation. I hope that the reason in this House will prevail and that these proposals of ours will at some point receive the reasonable support that we all need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. A statement from Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u71	We're taking turns, aren't we?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u72	There's a list.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u73	Yeah, you're right. Mr. Tishev, you were before him. Let's alternate the parliamentary groups. Thank you for understanding. Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, my speech is on the occasion of the previous opposition colleagues from BSP, which we have learned are the biggest experts in solving the demographic crisis. All the examples that they have given with their proposals under this law on how they will solve the demographic crisis are simply not true because all those countries that you are quoting, which have made tax reliefs, have also allocated funds, have not solved the demographic crisis. Demographic crisis is solved by thinking in the head. That's the truth. Whatever means are set aside, it's not gonna happen. Did the Bulgarians during the time of Turkish slavery live better and had more children? Or did they have tax breaks back then? Or any others? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's all in people's heads and us. And it's all in the heads of politicians because we set people's moods. We paint, especially you, painting the black picture in Bulgaria constantly "How everything is the worst, how everything is the most vicious, and do not look at your governments of this country in the last 30 years. What good did you do to solve the demographic crisis when hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians left the country? What did you do? You're the best experts now. I'll tell you what we do. It may not be enough, but we're doing it. Even in the new budget, we have proposed that parents be released for four-, five- and six-year-olds from kindergarten fees so that these funds can remain in the family budget. Why didn't you do it when you were in charge? Isn't that help? In recent years, do we not raise students' scholarships so that young people can study in Bulgaria, live here and have a fairly decent income while studying? Why didn't you do it? Didn't we make more and more thousands of students from abroad come to study in Bulgaria? More than 2,000 people are already the number the state grants with scholarships, with everything so that these children can come to Bulgaria from abroad, Bulgarian children, including from the new emigration, to be enrolled at our universities and to stay here. Why didn't you do it? And I'll tell you what you did to make the demographic crisis worse. If you remember, $2 a pension, $5 a salary. That's how you helped solve the demographic crisis. The other thing you did in 2013 with Oresharski and with DPS you stopped recognizing the Bulgarian origins of people from Macedonia, Albania, Ukraine, Moldova and so on and stopped giving these people Bulgarian citizenship. The problems remain to this day. You refuse to acknowledge that these people are Bulgarians and do not give them the right to come to our country. That's what you did! And you're going to talk about morality, about solving the demographic crisis? With what eyes?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u75	And you've been paid.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u76	With what eyes? The payment is clear where he is, Mr. Stoinev. You know very well. You know very well because all these clerks have been put there and you know very well over the years. [[Laughter and excitement in the BSP for Bulgaria.]] So when you talk about demographic crises, about the proposals you make, talk a little bit more objectively, because you didn't give me an example of what would be the effect on the demographic crisis with your proposals. What's the effect exactly? How many children will be born? How many fewer people will die? How many people are coming back? Because in recent years, we can see the other stats. As bad as this government is, it is not the most wonderful, there is no wonderful government anywhere in the world, but it is much better than your governments that have been over the years. You can see the data from the national statistics in recent years that the trend is more and more people Bulgarians from abroad to return to Bulgaria. It's a fact, it's not fiction. Each year the number has increased and has reached 30 thousand people a year who are returning to Bulgaria, and about 40 thousand people are leaving a trend that is starting to turn around and will be reversed in the next few years. This is the way to solve the demographic crisis, not with populism, with small political bills and screaming from the stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u77	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. First line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u78	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My fellow Member, it is not serious to say that the demographic crisis and disaster are only in the heads of some people, whether it is the MPs. Why, then, did we adopt a timely strategy to deal with the demographic catastrophe in previous national meetings? Maybe just because it's in some people's head, maybe from previous MPs. It is nice to come to Northwestern Bulgaria, come to Vidin to see what a demographic disaster is, to see that this region is completely depopulated, it becomes a reserve. And that's in the last ten years. When you talk about Bulgarian citizenship, you of the so-called patriotic bloc, I think you have no right to speak on this subject, especially after the scandals that have been heard throughout Europe with Bulgarian citizenship and with the ministries and ministers that you manage in this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u79	Thank you. Mrs. Klisurska, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Angelov, I want an answer to one question: what will you answer to Minister Biser Petkov, who in July in his interview says that it is high time for the state to consider family stimulation through tax preferences for families? What will you say to Minister Biser Petkov? My next question is related to the proposal of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which we will soon consider, because they are proposing that there be no fees for kindergartens: will you support it?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u81	Thank you. Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague, two things. First, hundreds of times the same lie is repeated, which does not exist in Eurostat and in Bulgarian statistics, for some $2 and $5 pensions. This was in the days after the coup d'état and the collapse of parliament, because even by Christmas of 1996 in a severe bank crisis the rate was about 450 BGN. for a dollar. This is not true, colleagues, because if the pension was 2 leva, first of all, our pensioners do not eat dollars. And second of all, what's the average pension now? If we say it's $200 average pension, is there any reasonable person to go out in front of people and say that a hundred times better pensioners live because it's $200 pension compared to March, say, 1997? That's against common sense. Enough with the pointless and poisonous jokes. Secondly, you did not mention anything positive. I don't say which party it is, but the young people have left the country since 1990. Fifty-sixty thousand a year. You did not mention the positive effect of a party which, with its capacity in a passport case, solves our demographic problem,.. brings Pakistani, Balkan and others who have nothing to do with Bulgaria. That's the first effect. You're solving our demographic issue. Good for this unnamed party! However, you should have said that this had a positive social effect, because with this money before the elections this party financed certain minority groups and raised their standard for three or four days.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u83	You're on the edge, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u84	Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u85	You have the floor for the back, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u86	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Gechev, I didn't quote Eurostat, I don't know, you're obviously mistaking the statement of the previous colleagues, perhaps. You obviously didn't listen to what I said, but people aren't that short-lived and they remember the two dollars pension and the five dollars salary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u87	What's the date?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u88	You either have to live in another world, or you don't know where you are, so you don't remember these things. I remember, I was a student in Svishtov and I remember how the course reached BGN 2,000. for a dollar and up. I guess it might have been a moment, for a few days, but it's there. I'm not saying now that people live much better than before, but surely $200 is better lived than $2. That's just what I'm convinced of. There's no one who can give me such economic logic as yours that people with two dollars have lived better than they have now with 200. This reasoning borders a little bit on... not saying certain words.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u89	No, don't tell.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u90	The other thing I'm going to tell Mr. Popov, did he leave the room? He keeps quoting Vidin. I once told him about Vidin and the previous chairman of the BSP what they did there.. nothing about this region while they ruled the country, so there would not be a severe demographic crisis. Nothing! Nothing at all! They were renovating community centers. But who are you fixing them for when there's no one around? What did you do to get them back?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u91	Tell me about the passports.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u92	I'll tell you about the passports, because you're not in class there either. Your vice president is signing the decrees of citizenship. And also God's Popov should know that there are no ministries which IMRO manages related to Bulgarian citizenship. In the Ministry of Justice, IMRO never had a minister or deputy minister responsible for Bulgarian citizenship. Why do you lie all the time? The institution that signs the decrees and refuses is the Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria. If you're saying there's something out there, because I remember the D.A.'s office, and I remember the temporary committee, I didn't see any evidence anywhere except a couple of people deliberately forced... Including your group in the Temporary Commission made a commitment to bring these witnesses to listen to them, they did not come.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u93	Who'd they arrest? Your director!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u94	Why didn't they come? Because you hired them to work, but people don't have eyes to come and lie, like they did in the media, so you can hit on IMRO because that's the point. This is the goal of the IMRO to be crushed, but it does not happen, as you can see. And it's not gonna happen! I can say to Mrs Klisurska: I have nothing against the proposals on how to reduce the effect of the demographic crisis, but I do mind when you step out of the stands and say that this will almost solve the demographic crisis and almost the majority and the Bulgarian government have taken no measures to resolve it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u95	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Please complete your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u96	That's why I made a statement, you still misunderstand me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u97	Thank you. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This debate is going very interestingly.. although we are discussing the important tax laws, which will then have an impact on the state budget, although we are discussing extremely important proposals, active are only the left part, so far we have a statement by the United People and a line, and GERB are not in the debate. Colleagues were more active in the Committee on Budget and Finance than here. Now, in essence, quite briefly about our proposals, some of which have already been mentioned. Who else can help the state with tax relief, if not for young people who are yet to enter the labour market, whether after graduation from secondary school or after graduation from higher education? Of course it's the hardest thing for them. First of all, they don't get high incomes because they're at the beginning of their careers. Secondly, at this very moment they are separated from their families and start paying higher costs, as was the case for renting a flat, at all about their own existence. If we do not help these young people and then as a second step, when they have a first, second child with relief, so-called family income taxation, the state cannot defend its thesis that exists in the election platform of each political party. We all state that we want to keep the young people in Bulgaria, we want them to stay here and work for our country, we want them to have their children here and not abroad. And as a result, what do we see? There is no measure in both these tax laws and the State Budget Project to do all this. Very few of you know, and so I will quote it, but currently there is a relief for children in quotes in the Law on personal income taxes. I will quote it: the local individuals and the foreign individuals established for tax purposes and so on are using relief for a child. See now, a reduction in the annual tax base by 200 BGN. For a child! So here's the thing that when we break this 200 BGN, we get 1.66 BGN. reduction of the monthly tax base of a natural person, i.e. a parent. That's BGN 1.66. Tax relief per month! I want someone to come out here and tell me with this BGN 1.66. What can a parent buy for his child? He can't buy him chocolate! That's why our offer is BGN 500. reduction of the tax base per month, which means that there will be 50 leva left. more in each family. On an annual basis, that's £600. One minimum wage. This is a social policy which can fight the demographic crisis. Regarding our latest proposal for the progressive tax. The flat tax was introduced for certain purposes and it fulfilled them. It has been a long time and we are talking about the need to restore progressive income taxation. Just for some, perhaps a lot of people do not know, keep in mind that in the United States the income taxation of individuals is progressive, allowing our students who go and work three or four months, after returning to Bulgaria, to recover their taxes That's because they have progressive income tax in America. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u99	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Are there lines? Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u100	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tishev, you neglected to mention something important in your speech, and it is that BSP proposes these measures because we saw last week when discussing the budget of the State Social Security that the government is actually preparing next year to freeze practically all social payments, including the basis for determining family benefits, which also remains unchanged. You also neglected to say in your speech that only less than a month or about a month ago the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in its expert report predicts that if no measures are taken to improve the quality of life in households and if it is not easier to raise children, which you mentioned, fewer Bulgarians will dare to create families and will migrate more and more to countries with a more favourable social policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u101	Thank you. Is there another line? I won't. Mr. Tishev, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Danchev, not only this year in the draft budget, but for several years the social measures that concern young families are frozen and always in our alternative budget we offer an update or update of these measures. Unfortunately, they're not accepted. This year we will introduce our alternative proposals for the state budget 2020 and this time I hope that what Mr. Angelov said earlier, the representatives of the United patriots and why not GERB representatives, to support them, because these proposals do not make them for us here, we do them for the Bulgarian families, for the young families and for the people we want to stay in Bulgaria and not to go and create added value abroad, their children to be born there and Bulgaria to be little by little depopulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u103	Thank you. We continue with the speeches. You have the floor, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u104	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will allow myself to not underestimate you, but, in order to remind you, to read what we offer as progressive income taxation, as a table, because you neglected to say this at the presentation of our proposal. We propose the introduction of proportional income tax to bring justice back to society and the feeling that both on the Constitution it is written that the state is social and in its budgetary policy is social. For this reason, based on the resources of society and the income that we have and which are not at all high, not to say again that we are one of the last places in the European Union, however uncomfortable it is for someone to hear it, we offer the people who receive up to 3,000. 900 BGN, do not change their tax of 10%. You can see how many people live in Bulgaria with 390 BGN. monthly income and how our offer will affect them! That is, they will remain with the same income and will not be harmed. On the other hand, the people who get $3,000. £900. And a penny to $5,000. 200 BGN, will pay tax 12.5% for the top over 3 thousand. £900. This basically means 32 BGN. More tax. It's a catastrophic sum for people who get $5,000. 200 leva, right?! We will hit them so hard with this tax that they will not be able to exist, they will compare to those who live below the poverty line. We're offering $5,000. 200 leva. And a penny to 6,000. 500 leva. the tax to be 15% for the top above 5 thousand. 200 leva. An increase in the tax for these people by BGN 97 Catastrophic, isn't it? We're killing them! We're just some creepy dark people we take from the rich and give to the poor. an increase in the tax on people who receive 6 thousand. 500 leva.! Further on, 6,000. 500 leva. And a penny to $7,000. £800. tax on the previous row plus 17.5% for the top above 6 thousand. 500 leva. Increase tax for these people with 195 leva. For people who get $7,000. 800 leva, 195 leva. That's a hell of a lot of money to raise their tax! I don't know how they'll live on! Seven thousand eight hundred levs and one penny to nine thousand. 100 leva. tax on the previous row plus 20% on the top over 7 thousand. £800. The increase of the tax by 305 BGN. Three hundred and five leva increase in tax for people who will receive 9 thousand. 100 leva.! It's a lot of money for them! I don't know how they're gonna make ends meet! I will not tell you how much the tax is increasing, because it is progressively growing, of course, we are offering 9,000. 100 leva. And a penny to 100,000. £400. 22.5% for the top over 9,000. 100 BGN, and for amounts above 10,000. £400. tax on the previous row plus 25% on the top over 10 thousand. £400. Colleagues, these aren't just numbers! This is a policy, and this is what distinguishes a governance that wants to be socially, which wants to be sensitive, which wants to help the poor and medium-sized to preserve and improve their way of life, governance, which is called neoliberal and which is supposedly, fair to everyone with the same income tax rate, benefits the richest in practice. Because at £610 when you get £61. And let the people live at BGN 470, and at 1 million. lv., when you get 100 grand. lv. and leave 900,000 to them. There is no justice in this, no sociality. There is a benefit to the rich at the expense of the poor! I advise you, if you really want to listen to the voice of society, accept our proposal, fulfill your constitutional obligation to turn Bulgaria into a social state. Thank you. PRESENT EMIL CHRISTOV: Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, I will put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 127 MPs: 49, against 33, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. I submit the text of the importer for § 11, which becomes § 23. Vote 128 MPs: 84 against 2, abstention 42. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, in the Northern foyer is presented the exhibition "The Sea brings everything closer together.".. It is part of the accompanying program within the 54th General Assembly of PACE, which the Bulgarian Parliament hosts between 19 and 21 November 2019. The exhibition introduces us to 20 digital copies of old geographic maps of the Black Sea, representing the importance and importance of the region with European cartography and history. All MPs are invited to see the exhibition. An exhibition of Cultural Burgas in parliament will be opened in the Eastern lobby. The initiative is of MPs, Burgas Municipality and the Society of Burgas Artists. The exhibition presents sculptures and photos of sculptures from the urban environment in Burgas. The participants are 12 prominent Burgas artists. All MPs are invited to the event. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u105	Colleagues, we're moving on. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u106	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 12, which becomes § 24, with the words "Paragraph 11, p. 1s are replaced by "Paragraph 23," t. 1.................................................................................. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 13, which becomes § 25, with the words "Paragraph 11, p. 3s and 3s shall be replaced by "Paragraph 23," t. 3.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u107	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the text of the importer for § 12, which becomes § 24, with the words "Paragraph 11, p. 1s are replaced by "Paragraph 23," t. 1 which is supported by the Commission; the same clarification applies to § 13, which becomes § 25, such as the words "Paragraph 11, p. 3s and 3s shall be replaced by "Paragraph 23," t. In accordance with the Commission Report and the text of the importer for § 14, which becomes § 26, supported by the Commission. 93 MPs voted: 70, against 10, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Procedure, Mrs. Ninova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u108	Ms. Karayancheva, twice or three times we already ask a question: will the ministers come to hear about the water crisis in Pernik? We still don't have a clear answer. Here in parliament is the mayor of Pernik. We want to be told clearly and categorically: are they coming or not coming? Will they come looking for a solution to the problem, or will parliament again be completely neglected as the highest authority in the parliamentary republic? Is it so hard to say yes or no? You can't give us a second hour without a clear answer. Have you contacted these people and will they come here to explain not only to us but also to the Bulgarian society what is going on in the country with the water crisis?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Yes, I've contacted Mrs Avramova. She's on paid annual leave, and Mr. Dimov is currently unable to come. They are committed to solving the problem. If you have a duly requested request tomorrow, we will do our best to have them here, but they cannot present themselves at the moment, as your request for us to bring the two ministers here has not been made in advance. [[Replication by the National Representative Rumen Gechev: "Procedure. "]] Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u110	Madam President, it is not acceptable what you are doing right now. What do you mean he's on paid leave?! If he is in Bulgaria, he can break his vacation as tens of thousands of Bulgarian families are suffering. If he is out of Bulgaria, there is an appointed Deputy Minister who performs the job. Second, Mr. Dimov was busy! This is not serious in the Parliamentary Republic of Bulgaria on Constitution. Stop hiding the Prime Minister and the ministers! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] There are three big cities left in the country without water and people are in distress, and you're telling us one of them is somewhere on vacation, and the other one is busy with who I don't know with his aunt, or I don't know. If you please, fulfill the Constitution and invite them insistently, which means to pack their bags and come to parliament. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u111	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. I've spoken to the ministers, and that's their answer. I respect their response because you are currently making a request for information that you already know, and there is such information. Make a due procedure and upon prior request they will be able to come, but have commitments that cannot be prevented. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Danchev, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u112	Ms. Karayancheva, I turn to you because you are the one who has to perform exactly what is written in the Rules of our National Assembly that, in the case of important matters for the country, the ministers are obliged at your urgent call to come, which, I hope, you have done, and if you have not, to do it now.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u113	I did, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u114	They are obliged to report and give information on these issues, which, as Mr. Gechev said, affect three large Bulgarian cities with several hundred thousand people. Therefore, I ask you not to hide behind the procedure, but to observe the Rules and Ministers to come right now to give this important information to us and to all Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u115	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. I'm not hiding behind the regulations, I'm telling you what my conversation with the ministers was. They'll have a chance to come tomorrow. I also call on you: use the possibilities of the Rules of Procedure and invite the ministers in the way it is written there. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] The same again? [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u116	Madam President, honourable Members, I am doing the present procedure with a request in the Chamber to attend Deputy Minister Nankov and Minister Neno Dimov, because I am still a member of Pernik from the Fourteenth Multi-Multiple Election Region, and I know what this is about regarding the state of water and water supply to our city. So in an urgent order it is necessary to come and explain, because in Pernik there is an infinite tension generated by the water regime, which was in one way or another caused by a district manager and by a manager of the "Viki" so that it is necessary that they come as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u117	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Paragraph 15. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u118	According to § 15 there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees: 1.1. A new point 11 shall be inserted with the following content: In Section II, Local Fees In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 1 (c) the words "child's nursery, children's kitchens, kindergartens" shall be deleted. 1.2. A new point 12 shall be inserted with the following content: In Section III, fees for kindergartens, kindergartens, specialized institutions for the provision of social services, camps and other municipal social services: Art. 81 is amended as follows: For the use of nurseries and kindergartens are not collected by parents or guardians monthly fees. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 27 and shall propose the following wording: "The Bible says: In the Law on Local Taxes and Fees (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5a t. Six is 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 para. 1 is amended as follows: The tax on real estate is subject to the property situated in the territory of the country and private buildings in buildings, as well as land properties located within the construction boundaries of the settlements and settlements, and the land estates outside them, which, according to a detailed plan, have the purpose of art. 8, p. 1 of the Law on Construction in the Area and after a change in the purpose of the land, where required by a special law. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 2 sentence 2 after the words (b) in para. 7 sentence 2 is created: 2 of one contracting entity uses the other entities. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18, para. 2 the words "services of budget support' shall be replaced by "administrative authorities'. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 21 4 is amended as In the absence of accounting data, the tax assessment shall be determined by an employee of the municipal administration at the expense of the taxable person. The tax assessment shall be determined by an employee of the municipal administration and in the case of accounting data determined in breach of applicable accounting legislation. The determination of the tax assessment shall be carried out in accordance with the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37 para. Two is 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48, para. 1, t. 4 words with public benefit status shall be replaced by the words for carrying out public service activities. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49 new paras are being created. 3 and 4: In the event of a free acquisition of property, except for the cases referred to in para. 2, persons receiving property shall lodge a declaration of their tax and pay the tax within two months of receipt of the tax. (4) Declaration under para. 3 shall not be submitted in the cases referred to in art. 44, para. Art. 5 and 6 and art. 48, para. 1, t. 5, 6, 8 and 9 as well as for donations received and provided by non-profit legal entities to carry out public service activities. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 3 is created a new t. 5. It's five o'clock. there are grounds for using tax exemptions under art. 59, para. 4. (b) in para. The fourth sentence is amended as follows: "When an inheritance vehicle is acquired, the declaration shall be lodged within the term of art. 32, where the latter has not been lodged within that period, an employee of the municipal administration shall form a service account for the vehicle on the basis of the data available in the municipality and in the population register. (c) in para. the second sentence is deleted; 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 61z, para. 1, t. 2 after the words 97a. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The amount of tax due for the calendar month shall be determined by an employee of the municipal administration on the basis of data from the Single Tourism Information System maintained by the Ministry of Tourism and the number of nights provided per month shall be multiplied by the amount of the tax under para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. (b) A new para shall be created. 3: The Ministry of Tourism immediately after the expiry of the calendar month, as well as after the expiry of the current year, shall provide the Ministry of Finance electronically with the necessary data from the Single Tourism Information System through the information exchange system maintained in accordance with art. 5a. (c) the creation of para. 6: The data referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 3 shall be provided by the Ministry of Finance to the 1. through a built and functioning automated connection between the information exchange system supported by the Ministry of Finance in implementation of art. 5a, and the software product for administration of local taxes and fees to the municipality concerned; or 2. through authorised access to the relevant municipality to the information received from the Single Tourism Information System. (d) the current para. 3 becomes para. 7. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for the establishment of § 15a. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create a new § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 For newly built buildings which are subject to commissioning under the Law on Construction in the Area and which are completed in rough construction on 31 December 2019 but are not put into service or are not authorised for use, the data under art. 14, para. 2 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees shall be submitted by the contracting authority by 29 February 2020. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u119	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam President, I am proposing to drop out of § 15 points. Article 4 (c) 21, para. 4 that is where it is written that, after the words: "In the absence of accounting data, a comma shall be placed and added as in the case of accounting data determined in violation of applicable accounting legislation' and a comma shall be added. I developed my motives at the first reading of the Bill with one concern that there are problems with the reduced accounting data regarding the ownership of certain companies, not individuals. But here my concern is about a clash and subjectivism of local authorities regarding the relationships of municipalities/business. I also shared examples of my work as mayor that there is indeed such a distortion in acquisition and accounting data. Here the President of the Commission Mrs. Stoyanova on page 51 has tried to merge the two things and to give a sequel, one comment, but I do not think that we find justice in this decision. That's why I keep my offer under art. 21, para. 4 t. 4 to fall. Since I have taken the floor, I would like to support the proposal of the MPs Mustafa Karadaye, Yordan Tsonev, Ahmed Ahmedov, Adlen Shevked and Sergey Kichikov in terms of policy related to local taxes and fees to the nursery, children's kitchens, kindergartens in its overall recording. I want to share that I will support it and hopefully a lot of colleagues too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u121	Thank you, it's about al. 4.................................................................................. 21, para. 4 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u122	Dismissed.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u124	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will take into account the proposal of the representatives of the DPS relating to an amendment of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, namely in the part relating to the fee for kindergartens to be dropped. Our parliamentary group will make such a proposal in its alternative budget, but today we will support the proposal of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. I hope, honourable gentlemen of the United Patriarch, since you are advocates of the thesis that every Bulgarian child has the right to education and the problem is that a large part of the Bulgarian families cannot afford the fee and therefore the children cannot attend kindergartens, to support it. We'll do it in the alternative budget. I don't understand why the DPS representatives who came up with this idea are currently not in the room to protect it. For children who attend kindergarten and nursery and the amount needed for this measure amount to no more than 66 million BGN. annual, which I believe that with those surpluses currently generating the state, that exclusively with each budget the revenue is reduced, that we can afford this expenditure. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is high time to take the first step and help the young families of Bulgaria all. I will conclude something that Mrs. Mariana Nikolova, as Deputy Prime Minister, raised in the middle of the year. She said that by July 15th, a working group of you who manage will develop a number of measures to deal with the demographic crisis. One of the leading measures Mrs. Mariana Nikolova pointed out was the cancellation of the kindergarten fee. So I hope that we will all support this proposal together because I think it is right and in the right direction for the children of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u125	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. They voted 117 MPs: 41, against 21, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dora Yankova to drop the item. 5.................................................................................. 21, para. 4 and its amendment. They voted 119 MPs: 37 against 58, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the version of § 15, which becomes § 27 of the Commission Report, the creation of a new § 28 and the text of the importer for § 16, which becomes § 29, supported by the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 85, against 15, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u126	Paragraph 17. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: In § 17 is created t. 13a: 13a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 66 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 after the word "Stage" is added for medicinal products included in the positive list under art. 262 of the Act on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, paid with funds from the budget of the NHIF, medical devices and diet food for special medical purposes, as well as. 2. The creation of para. 3: The tax rate for meat, milk, eggs, flour and food products of flour is 5 percent. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadaye, Yordan Tsonev, Ahmed Ahmedov, Adlen Shevked and Sergey Kichikov: The following additions and amendments shall be made to the Law on Value Added Tax: A new point 14 shall be inserted with the following content: In Part Two, a new article is created. 36b with the following name: Delivery of related issues, distribution and sale of art, science and teaching literature Art. 36b, para. 1 Zero-rate supply is the issue, distribution and sale of art and scientific literature, cognitive books, textbooks and teaching aids. In § 17 In the Law on Value Added Tax, point (b) is replaced by the following: 2 point (b) to (f) to (f). The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2 (b) and does not support it in the rest. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 30 and shall propose the following wording: 30. In the Law on Value Added Tax (promise, SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 3, p. 1 The Union shall be replaced by a comma and then a comma shall be added and shall be added to any other relationship that creates relationships similar to those of the employer and employee in relation to the working conditions, remuneration and liability of the employer. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: the supply of goods within the meaning of this law is the transfer of the right of ownership or of another property right to the goods and any other right to dispose of the goods as owner. (b) in para. 3: (aa) c. 1 after the words (bb) c. A sentence 2 shall be created: this shall not apply in the case of the transfer of goods under the storage procedure of goods up to demand. (c) the creation of para. 7. "Alinea" 3, p. 3 shall not apply where the person has evidence set out in the rules for implementing the law that the intra-Community acquisition is placed in the Member State where the goods arrive or finish their transport. When for delivery is applied para. 3, p. 3 and subsequently the person shall prove that the intra-Community acquisition is also subject in the Member State where the goods arrive or finish their transport, the person shall correct the outcome of the application of para. 3, p. 3. The documents certifying those circumstances and the procedure for carrying out the correction shall be laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 the comma is finally placed and the supplier's VAT identification number has been provided to the supplier; (b) in para. 5 is created t. 11: "11." the delivery under para. 1 where the supplier has not submitted VIES 125 or where the VIES declaration lodged does not contain the exact details of the delivery concerned, unless the supplier can justify the reason for the deficiencies or errors made by the supplier, including where the person removed the same person in the subsequent VIES declaration. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 2 t. 4 is amended as follows: "4." the operation of a service by a holder/user for: (a) repair of a leased or provided asset. (b) improvement of an asset employed or provided for use. (b) in para. 3 t. 1 and 2 after the words 5. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 10b: Minus delivery in connection with the construction, improvement or repair of technical infrastructure elements supposed public state or public municipal property Art. 10b. (1) There is no supply of free provision by a taxable person of built, improved or repaired technical infrastructure elements which, on the basis of law, are public state or public municipal property and are used by the taxable person in the framework of his independent economic activity, including in the event that technical infrastructure elements are also available for use by other entities. (2) The taxable person shall have the right to deduct tax credit under the general rules of the law where the costs incurred for the construction, improvement or repair of technical infrastructure elements under para. 1 is part of the total costs of the person and/or are an element forming the cost of the taxable delivery of goods or services paid in the course of that person's economic activity. (3) Paragraph 1 shall not apply to the constructed, improved or repaired elements of technical infrastructure under para. 1 for which remuneration is agreed, including where remuneration is determined in whole or in part in goods or services. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 1 the acquisition of property rights on the good shall be added to any other right of disposal of the goods as owner. 7. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 15a: suppose storage of goods on demand Art. 15a. (1) A taxable person may transfer goods forming part of his economic assets from the territory of one Member State to the territory of another Member State under a storage regime of goods up to demand. (2) Transfer under para. 1 under the storage procedure of goods up to demand is not a retribution of goods where both the following conditions are met: 1. the goods are dispatched or transported by the taxable person or on his behalf by a third party from the territory of one Member State to the territory of another Member State for the purpose of carrying out subsequent delivery to another taxable person in the Member State where the goods have arrived or their transport has ended, in the event of a contract between the two taxable persons providing for the transfer of the right of ownership or any other right of disposal of the goods as owner; 2. the taxable person transferring the goods has not been established and has no permanent establishment in the territory of the Member State in which the goods arrive or end up; 3. the taxable person for whom the goods are intended to be delivered has been identified for VAT purposes in the Member State in which the goods arrive or end their transport and his VAT identification number issued by that Member State has been granted to the taxable person referred to in point (c). 2, as soon as the dispatch or transport of the goods begins; 4. the goods are entered in the register under art. 123, para. 5 at the moment when their dispatch or transport by the taxable person under point begins. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 5. the VAT identification number of the taxable person referred to in point 5. 3 issued to it by the Member State in which the goods arrive or finish their transport is included in the VIES declaration for the tax period of dispatch or transport of the goods by the taxable person under point 3. 2. (3) When the conditions of para. 2 at the time of transfer of the right to dispose of the goods as the owner of the taxable person under para. 2, p. 3, provided that the transfer takes place within a 12-month period from the arrival or completion of the transport of the goods, it shall be deemed to exist: 1. intra-Community supply of goods carried out by the taxable person under para. 2, p. 2 in the Member State from which the goods are dispatched or transported; 2. intra-Community acquisition of goods carried out by the taxable person under para. 2, p. 3 to which those goods are delivered in the Member State in which the goods arrive or end up. (4) Where, within the 12-month period of arrival or completion of the transport of the goods in the Member State in which the goods have arrived or completed their transport, the taxable person under para. 2, p. 3 shall be replaced by another taxable person, subject to all other applicable conditions of para. 2 and entry of the replacement by the taxable person under para. 2, p. 2 in the register under art. 123, para. 5 shall continue to apply the storage procedure for goods until the expiry of that period. (5) There is no supply of goods the return of the goods to the Member State from which they were sent or transported where the right of ownership or any other right of disposal of the goods as owner has not been transferred within 12 months of the arrival or completion of the transport of the goods and their return is reflected in the register under art. 123, para. 5 of the face by para. 2, p. 2. (6) Where within the 12-month period of arrival or completion of the transport of the goods one of the conditions under para. 2 and 4 are no longer fulfilled, at this point it is considered to be present: 1. intra-Community supply of goods carried out by the taxable person referred to in para. 2, p. 2 in the Member State from which the goods are dispatched or transported; 2. intra-Community acquisition of goods carried out by the taxable person referred to in para. 2, p. 2 in the Member State where the goods have arrived or completed their transport. (7) Where, within the 12-month period of arrival or completion of transport, the goods were not delivered and no circumstances under para. 5, 9 or 10, the conditions under para. 2 are not fulfilled on the day following the expiry of the 12-month period, which shall apply para. 6. (8) Where, within the 12-month period of arrival or completion of transport, the goods are delivered to a person other than the taxable person under para. 2, p. 3 or para. 4 is considered to be the conditions under para. 2 are not executed immediately prior to this delivery, as at this time applies para. 3. (9) Where, within the 12-month period of arrival or completion of transport, the goods are sent or transported to a country other than the Member State in which the goods were originally arrived or completed, the conditions under para. 2 shall not be completed immediately before this dispatch or transport is started, at this time applying para. 6. (10) Where the goods are destroyed, missing or scrapped within the 12-month period of arrival or completion of transport, the conditions under para. 2 and 4 are not fulfilled on the date of occurrence of the relevant circumstance, or if it is not possible to determine that date, the date of its establishment, which shall apply para. 6. (11) The tax event in intra-Community supply and intra-Community acquisition under para. 6 occurs on the date of the relevant circumstance. In these cases, art. 51, para. Art. 3 and Art. 63, para. 3. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 5 words when the goods cease to be under the relevant procedure in the territory of the country and the comma in front of them shall be replaced by the only words when the goods are released for free circulation. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17, para. 1 after the words "transfer of ownership', the titles of any other right of disposal of the goods as owner shall be added. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22 para. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The tax event shall occur on the date on which the right of ownership of the goods or other property law has been transferred, as well as any other right of disposal of the goods as owner, or on the date on which the service was carried out. (b) in para. 3: (aa) c. 1 words "al." Each Member State shall ensure that the following conditions are met: (bb) point 6 is amended as follows: It's six. the date of the actual return of the asset with the improvement by the holder/user in termination of the lease or termination of the use of the asset where the improvement of the asset employed or provided for use is not provided as a condition and/or obligation under the contract; (c) the creation of para. "Tax Event under para. 1 is also the placing under re-export procedure of goods intended for the continental shelf and the exclusive economic zone in which the State exercises sovereign rights, jurisdiction and control in accordance with art. 42 and/or art. 47 of the Law on maritime spaces, inland waterways and ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, which, upon their introduction into the territory of the country, were temporarily stored goods or placed in a free zone or under customs procedure, customs storage, inward processing, temporary import with full exemption from import duties, external transit. (11) The tax event under para. 10 arises and the tax becomes due on the date on which the goods are placed under re-export procedure. (12) In cases where goods arrive directly in the continental shelf and the exclusive economic zone in which the State exercises sovereign rights, jurisdiction and control in accordance with art. 42 and/or art. 47 of the Law on maritime spaces, inland waterways and ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, from a third country or territory, or from another Member State where there is no intra-Community acquisition, the tax event arises and the tax becomes due on the date on which the goods arrived in the continental shelf and the exclusive economic zone. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. 2 sentence 4 is amended as follows: The tax base of delivery of services under art. 9, para. 3, p. 3 is the sum of the direct costs incurred in carrying out them, reduced by cost of waste, given the normal economic life of the improvement of the asset employed or provided for use, and if the amount of direct costs cannot be determined, the tax base is the market price. 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53 para. 2 is amended as For the application of zero-rate under para. 1 the supplier shall have: 1. documents for the delivery laid down by the Rules for Law Enforcement, and 2. documents for the dispatch or transport of goods from the territory of the country to the territory of another Member State, as defined by art. 45a of Council Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1912 of 4 December 2018 amending Implementing Regulation (EU) No 282/2011 as regards certain exemptions in intra-Community transactions (OB, L 311/10 of 7 December 2018)), hereinafter referred to as the Implementing Regulation (EU) No 282/2011 14. Part Four is created with art. 65a: "Four-four-a-six-a-six-a-six-a-six-a-six-a-six-a-six-a-six-a-six-a-six-a-six-a-six-a-six-a-six-a-six-a-six-a-six-a-six-a-six-a-six-a-six-a-six. Sequencing supplies of goods Determination of intra-Community supply for successive supplies of goods Art. 65a. (1) Deliveries of the same commodity in a chain including an intermediate supplier which is sent or transported from one Member State to another Member State directly from the first supplier to the final recipient in the chain shall be successive deliveries of the goods. (2) Interim supplier under para. 1 is a supplier in a chain of successive supplies of a commodity other than the first supplier in the chain that sends or transports the goods alone or through a third party on its behalf. (3) In the cases under para. 1 for the purposes of Art. 1. 53 The dispatch or transport shall only apply to the delivery to the intermediate supplier. (4) Where the intermediate supplier has communicated to its supplier the VAT identification number issued to it by the Member State from which the goods were sent or transported for the purposes of art. 53, regardless of para. 3, dispatch or transport shall refer only to the supply of the goods carried out by the intermediate supplier. (5) The place of execution of the remaining supplies in the chain shall be determined as follows: 1. the supplies made prior to the delivery to which the shipment or transport of the goods concerned is to be carried out shall be in the Member State from which the goods were sent or transported; 2. the supplies made after delivery to which the shipment or transport of the goods is concerned shall be in the Member State in which the goods have arrived or their transport has ended. (6) Where an obligation to register for the purposes of VAT of any supplier in the Member State where the delivery under para. The rules of that Member State shall apply. 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1, t. 2 after the words "suppliers' or "suppliers' are added by "total'; (b) in para. 4 after the words on the grounds of art. Art. 97a, Art. Ninety-nine is a comma and an al is added. 1.. 6............................................................................... 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) c. 2 after the words "payer" under art. A comma shall be placed and added to the comma, with the exception of para. 6, p. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (i) (i) (b) To be created t. 11: "11." hold a customs re-export document which has issued a protocol under art. 117 and has complied with the requirements of art. 86 in the cases referred to in art. 82, para. 6, p. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 78 is created. 7, 8 and 9: The adjustments referred to in Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) shall be made in accordance with Article 4 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. Art. 79, Art. 79a and 79b in the case of a service carried out under Art. 79a and 79b. 9, para. 2, p. 4, b. For remuneration, the landlord or the person granting the right of use of the asset shall do so. (8) Corrections under Art. Art. 79, Art. 79a and 79b in the case of a service carried out under Art. 79a and 79b. 9, para. 3, p. 3 shall be carried out by the holder/user. (9) For the purposes of para. 7 and 8, adjustments shall be made according to the type of asset employed. 18. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 79 are created. 9 and 10: For the purposes of this Article, individual adjustments shall be made in the event of an improvement of an existing building resulting from which there is a new building, such as: 1. for the tax charged for the improvement made shall be counted a new 20-year period with effect from: (a) the beginning of the year of the exercise of the right of tax credit for the tax levied on the improvement made, respectively from the beginning of the year of the actual use, where the building after the improvement has not been used more than one year after the year of the exercise of the right of the tax credit; or (b) the beginning of the year in which the term under art. 72, para. 1 where no right to tax credit has been exercised for the improvement of the building since the beginning of the year of actual use, respectively, if the building has not been used more than one year after the expiry of that period after the improvement has been made. 2. in the cases of t. 1 NDDC under para. 3, p. 1, para. 5, t. 1 and para. 6, p. 1 is the VAT charged for the expenditure incurred for the improvement made; 3. the tax levied on the acquisition or construction of the building prior to the improvement made does not arise a new 20-year period. (10) For the purposes of this Article, no new 20-year period, respectively 5 years, shall arise for the purposes of the tax on subsequent costs incurred relating to the improvement of goods, including real estate other than building and services which are or would be fixed assets. 19. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 79a is created. 9 and 10: For the purposes of this Article, individual adjustments shall be made in the event of an improvement of an existing building resulting from which there is a new building, such as: 1. for the tax charged for the improvement made shall be counted a new 20-year period with effect from: (a) the beginning of the year of the exercise of the right of tax credit for the tax levied on the improvement made, respectively from the beginning of the year of the actual use, where the building after the improvement has not been used more than one year after the year of the exercise of the right of the tax credit; or (b) the beginning of the year in which the term under art. 72, para. 1 where no right to tax credit has been exercised for the improvement of the building since the beginning of the year of actual use, respectively, if the building has not been used more than one year after the expiry of that period after the improvement has been made. 2. in the cases of t. 1 VAT under para. 3, p. 1 is the VAT charged for the expenditure incurred for the improvement. 3. for the tax charged in the acquisition and construction of the building prior to the improvement made, no new 20-year period arises. (10) For the purposes of this Article, subsequent costs related to the improvement of goods, including immovable property other than a building that is or would be fixed assets, do not arise a new 20-year period, respectively a 5-year period. 20. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 79b is created For the purposes of this Article, no new 5-year period shall arise for the subsequent tax incurred relating to the improvement of services that are or would be fixed assets. 21. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) in......................................................................................... (d) for goods or services received for the construction, improvement or repair of technical infrastructure elements under art. 10b, para. 1);supposed to be in the form of a combination of two or more of the following forms: (b) To be created t. 6: It's six. for the improvement of an existing building resulting in a new building if 20 years have passed, with effect from: (a) the beginning of the year of the exercise of the right of tax credit for the tax levied on the improvement made, respectively from the beginning of the year of the actual use, where the building after the improvement has not been used more than one year after the year of the exercise of the right of the tax credit; or (b) the beginning of the year in which the term under art. 72, para. 1 where no right to tax credit has been exercised for the improvement of the building since the beginning of the year of actual use, respectively, if the building has not been used more than one year after the year of expiry of that period after the improvement made. 22. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 82 For goods intended for activities in the continental shelf and the exclusive economic zone for which the State exercises sovereign rights, jurisdiction and control in accordance with art. 42 and/or art. 47 of the Law on maritime spaces, inland waterways and ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, the tax is required: 1. by a person registered under that law for whom those goods have been placed under re-export procedure and, upon entry into the territory of the country, have been temporarily stored or placed in a free zone or under customs procedure, customs storage, inward processing, temporary import with full exemption from import duties, external transit; 2. by the recipient a person registered under this law where the goods arrive directly in the continental shelf and the exclusive economic zone from a third country or territory or from another Member State where there is no intra-Community acquisition for the goods. 23. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1 after the words "supposed', a comma shall be added and a comma shall be added which is established in the territory of the country and a comma shall be placed; (b) in para. 5 after the words the obligation to register is added to the taxable person established in the territory of the country and a comma is placed; (c) the creation of para. 9, 10 and 11: In any event, the Commission shall take into account the information provided by the Member State concerned in accordance with the procedure laid down in point (a) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 1 each taxable person under art. 95, para. 2 is due within 7 days before the date on which the tax on the taxable supply of goods or services becomes required to submit an application for registration under this law, except where this law provides for an obligation to register under art. 97, 97b and 98. (10) In the successive activity of the same commercial establishment by two or more related persons or persons acting in concert, the taxable turnover of each subsequent person shall include the turnover realised at the site by all persons who carried out the activity in a consistent manner in the object before it, for a period not exceeding the last 12 consecutive months, including the current month, and shall be regarded as a turnover realised by the person concerned on the first day of the start of the uniform activity at the site by that person. The activity shall be deemed to be uniform where there is a significant identity in respect of two or more of the following characteristics: the goods or services offered, the assets used, the personnel, the trademark/name of the establishment, the suppliers/clients. (11) It shall not be considered that there is a consistent exercise by two persons of a uniform activity if there is an interruption of activity for more than one month from the date of cessation of activity by the previous person and the date of start of activity by the person determining turnover under para. 10. 24. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Ninety-nine are created. 7 seventh the value of the intra-Community acquisitions carried out under para. 2 to registration under this law is subject to a taxable person established in another Member State who carries out intra-Community acquisition of goods in the territory of the Party under art. 15a, para. 6 or art. 65a. (8) For the persons under para. 7 An obligation to register under this law shall arise no later than 7 days before the date of occurrence of a circumstance under art. 15a, para. 6 or art. 65a by submitting an application. 25. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. The third sentence is created: "The requested e-mail addresses for correspondence shall be considered as an e-mail address for receiving messages according to art. 28, para. 2 of the Tax-Securities Procedure Code (b) in para. 8 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the 26. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) c. 1 after the words. The following entry is inserted in the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of the European Parliament and (b) c. 3 after the words................................................................................................ The Commission shall c) create t. 5 and 6: It's five o'clock. for a person registered on the basis of art. 96, para. 9 where, for the last 12 months prior to the current month, no taxable supplies of goods or services under art. 12; 6. for a person registered on the basis of art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 7 when: (a) for the last 12 months prior to the current month, the person has not carried out taxable intra-Community acquisitions, and (b) there is no grounds for compulsory registration at the date of submission of the application for registration. 27. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 117, para. 1, t. 1 the words "s 4 and 5' are replaced by "s 4 and 5' and "s 6'. 28. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) the title is amended as follows: (b) in para. The 3 sentence second is amended as follows: In the case of sales of goods or services that are provided by self-service machines and which are recorded and reported by means of fiscal devices embedded in self-service machines, with the exception of currency exchange services, the fiscal bond registering the sale can only be displayed on display without issuing a paper document in order and manner defined by the regulation under para. 4. (c) the creation of para. To: In the case of non-existent payment by credit or debit card on sales/delivery of goods or services, a document for the sale, which is not issued by a fiscal device of an approved type or by an approved integrated automated commercial management system, shall be allowed to be issued and made available to the recipient by electronic means. The terms of application of this provision, the form and content of the document, as well as the order and manner of issuing the document and the obligations for providing data from the document to the National Revenue Agency shall be determined by the ordinance under para. 4. (d) in para. 4 is created t. 9. Nine. the form and content of the documents, conditions, arrangements and arrangements for issuing them, as well as the obligations for data transmission in the event of non-compliance with a credit or debit card. (e) in para. 11: (aa) c. 3 a comma shall be finally placed and added, except for deliveries made by an object which is not a final distributor and which is used as a means of measuring a cost measurement system or a cost meter; (bb) The creation of a t. 7. "7." the supplier and the recipient of domestic fuel supplies in bottles of up to 50 kg capacity or transported through a built-up network. 29. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123 are created. 5.. 9: In the case of a taxable person who transfers goods under the procedure of storage of goods up to a request under art. 15a from the territory of the country to the territory of another Member State shall keep an electronic register of those goods which allows revenue authorities to verify the correct application of that regime. (6) Any taxable person for whom the goods under a storage procedure of goods shall be subject to a request under art. 15a are intended to be delivered and sent to the territory of the country, keeps an electronic register of these goods. (7) Any taxable person established in the territory of the Party to which goods are supplied for storage shall keep detailed records of those goods which must contain information allowing the identification of the type and quantity of the goods at any time for each of the persons who have provided the goods for storage and the identification of the persons who have sent, transported or received the goods upon completion of their storage. (8) The structure and content of the electronic registers under para. 5 and 6 shall be determined by the rules of application of the law. The information from the registers shall be provided on request by a revenue body by electronic means or by electronic means in a file format defined in the Rules. (9) The persons under para. 5, 6 and 7 keep records under para. 7 and the information in the electronic registers under para. 5 and 6 for a period of 10 years from the end of the year in which the storage of the goods under para. 7, the transfer of the goods under para. 5 and 6........................................................................................... 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. The second sentence is created: "The registered person is obliged to reflect the information from the register under art. 123, para. 5 in the sales log for the tax period during which this information or changes in it are reflected in this register, including in exchange for the person under art. 15a, para. 2, p. 3 and the return of the goods to the Member State from which they were sent or transported, and the content of the information and the way it is reflected shall be determined by the rules of application of the law. (b) in para. 4 a sentence is created second: "The registered person is obliged to reflect the information from the register under art. 123, para. 6 in the book of purchases for the tax period during which this information or its changes are reflected in this register, the content of the information and the way it is reported shall be determined by the rules of application of the law. 31. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 125, para. The second sentence shall be created: the registered person transferring goods forming part of his economic assets from the territory of the country to the territory of another Member State under the storage regime of goods up to demand, together with the reference under para. 1 shall also submit a declaration for the tax period of dispatch or transport of goods under this procedure and for the tax periods of change during the 12-month period of arrival or completion of transport, including when replacing the person under art. 15a, para. 2, p. 3. 32. Article 14 shall be inserted in Chapter 14. 131d: supplies of goods intended for activities in the continental shelf and the exclusive economic zone Art. 131 C.E. (1) In the case of supplies of goods within the territory of the country intended for activities in the continental shelf and the exclusive economic zone, the supplier shall apply to such supplies the general rules of that law, including for the supply of goods placed under re-export or export procedure. (2) The tax under art. 82, para. 6 shall be charged with the issue of a protocol. For the tax levied on the person referred to in art. 82, para. 6 shall be entitled to a tax credit under the conditions of Chapter 7. (3) The person referred to in art. 82, para. 6, p. 1 and 2 informs the competent territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency that it will levy a tax on goods intended for the continental shelf and the exclusive economic zone by electronic means. 33. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 169, para. 1, t. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 97a, 34. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 181b, 181c, 181d and 181e: Art. 181b. (1) A person who, when in debt, does not keep an electronic register under art. 123, para. 5 and 6 or does not keep the electronic register according to the requirements of the law, is punished with a fine for individuals who are not traders, or with a charge for legal persons and sole traders, amounting to BGN 500 to BGN 5000. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 the amount of the fine or penalty is from 1000 to 10 000 BGN. Art. 181c. (1) A person who, when in debt, does not reflect in the sales log the information from the register under art. 123, para. 5, respectively in the diary of purchases the information from the register under art. 123, para. 6 for the tax period during which this information or changes to it are reflected in the relevant register shall be punished with a fine for individuals who are not traders or with a charge for legal persons and sole traders of 100 to 1000 BGN. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 the amount of the fine or penalty is from 200 to 2000 BGN. Art. 181. (1) A person who, when in debt, does not provide, upon request by a revenue body, the electronic register referred to in art. 123, para. 5 and 6 shall be punished with a fine for individuals who are not traders or with a charge for legal persons and sole traders, amounting to BGN 500 to BGN 5000. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 the amount of the fine or penalty is from 1000 to 10 000 BGN. Art. 181e. (1) A person who, when in debt, does not keep records under art. 123, para. 7 or does not keep records according to the requirements of the law, shall be punished with a fine for individuals who are not traders or with a charge for legal persons and sole traders, amounting to 500 to 5000 BGN. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 the amount of the fine or penalty is from 1000 to 10 000 BGN 35. In the additional provisions: (a) in § 1: (aa) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." The territory of the country is the geographical territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as the continental shelf and the exclusive economic zone in which the state exercises sovereign rights, jurisdiction and control in accordance with art. 42 and/or art. 47 of the Law on maritime spaces, inland waterways and ports of the Republic of Bulgaria. (bb) point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. "New buildings" are the buildings: (a) which, at the date on which the supply tax has become required, have a stage of completion of the works, or (b) for which, on the date on which their supply tax became due, no 60 months have expired from the date on which a permit for use or certificate of entry into service has been issued under the Law on a device in the territory; or (c) meeting the following conditions: (aa) are parts which are separate from existing buildings as a result of upgrade and/or complementary construction, and such parts may be subject to separate supplies or constitute buildings for which direct costs incurred for the implementation of reconstruction, major renovation and/or conversion are not less than one third of the market price of such buildings at the date on which a new authorisation for use or certificate of entry into service has been granted under the Law on Construction of the territory, and (bb) at the date on which the supply tax has become due, no 60 months have expired from the date on which a new authorisation for use or certificate of entry into service has been issued under the Law on the Construction of the Area. (c) point 32 is amended as follows: "32." It's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, (a) for buildings that are or would be fixed assets 5, b. in point (a) (i) (ii) of the first subparagraph, point (b) is replaced by the following: (b) for goods, including immovable property other than buildings, and services which are or would be capital goods (dd) point 87 is amended as follows: ..87. An electronic store is a software that is accessible via the Internet using a web browser or mobile application and which sells goods/services through the conclusion of a distance contract under art. 45 of the Consumer Protection Act, providing the choice of the customer of goods/services via a consumer basket or otherwise, as well as the provision of contact information with the buyer, delivery address and payment method dd) are created t. 91.. 97: I'm sorry, "Register" under art. 123, para. 5s is a register which contains the information from art. 54a (1) of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1912. 92. "Register" under art. 123, para. 6s is a register which contains the information from art. 54a (2) of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1912. 93. "Persons acting in the context of art. 96, para. 10 are persons involved in the management, control and/or capital of which are related under § 1, item 1. 3 points (a), (b) and (c) of the additional provisions of the Tax-related procedural code of persons or persons, of the relationship between or between each of them and a third party according to their existing economic, organisational, family or other relationship/relationship, it can be concluded that they act in concert and between them conditions other than those used to be agreed. 94. "Establishment" "Adjusting Building", "Redevelopment", "Restructuring", "Restructuring", "Restructuring" are concepts within the meaning of the Law on Construction of the Area. 95. The elements of the technical infrastructure are those within the meaning of art. 64 of the Law on Structure of the Area. 96. It is a payment by means of a payment transaction initiated via the internet and carried out by software identification of a credit or debit card or other card based payment instrument from a virtual terminal POS Terminal without physical reading of the card and without the simultaneous physical presence of the seller and the seller of sales where the provision of goods or services takes place other than the trader's commercial premises. 97. "Bito needs" within the meaning of art. 118, para. 11, p. 7 is the consumption of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) or natural gas by a natural person for its household. (b) in §1a are created t. 13 s 17: "13." Council Directive (EU) 2018/2057 of 20 December 2018 amending Directive 2006/112/EC on the common system of value added tax as regards the provisional application of a common reverse charge mechanism for supplies of goods and services to a value above a certain threshold (OJ L 329/3 of 27 December 2018.). 14. Council Directive (EU) 2018/1695 of 6 November 2018 amending Directive 2006/112/EC on the common system of value added tax as regards the period of application of the optional reverse charge mechanism for the supply of certain goods and services at risk of fraud and the rapid response mechanism against VAT fraud (OJ L 282/5 of 12 November 2018.). 15. Council Directive (EU) 2018/1910 of 4 December 2018 amending Directive 2006/112/EC as regards the harmonisation and simplification of certain rules of the system of value added tax for trade between Member States (OJ L 311/3 of 7 December 2018.). 16. Council Directive (EU) 2018/1713 of 6 November 2018 amending Directive 2006/112/EC as regards rates of value added tax for books, newspapers and periodicals (OJ L 286, 20.10.20 of 14 November. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009). 17. Council Directive (EU) 2019/475 of 18 February 2019 amending Directives 2006/112/EC and 2008/118/EC as regards the inclusion of the Municipality of Campione d'Italy and the Italian waters of Lake Lugano in the customs territory of the Union and within the territorial scope of Directive 2008/118/EC (OJ L 83/42 of 25 March 2019.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u127	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Statements? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u128	There is!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u129	Is there? Mr. Ermenkov, please raise your hand more actively. I can't see you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u130	It is a very long text to read and forget the beginning, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u131	You will remind us, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u132	No, we won't remember that. That's why we took so long, because while we assimilate 25 pages of reading, for which I congratulate my colleague, both for her patience and for the hard work she has shown...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u133	And I salute her. I also congratulate you on the patience you've been listening to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u134	I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have proposals in this section that are not supported by the Commission. I would like to draw attention to what we are proposing, because I think it is important and shows our attitude to those needs that relate to people's lives, to their health, and to their daily needs. It is about a reduction of value added tax, as we have written it down to become a zero rate for medicinal products included in the positive list under art. 262 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Humanitarian Medicine. Notice not for those who are sold on free sale, but for payment with the funds from the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund of Medical Devices and Dietary Foods for special medical purposes. And the other thing we offer is that the tax rate for meat, milk, eggs, flour, flour, flour is 5%. Naturally, what we are doing is not to hit a fissure and say that there is irrecoverability and insufficient revenue in the budget. It is about the fact that we are going to try to reduce the price and increase people's access to medicines and to foods of first need, something that I think is extremely important in a country, which, again, I will repeat, for which way, is last on incomes in the European Union and any relief that is in terms of prices can only help lift, albeit minimally, the living and living standards of these people. Therefore, I ask you very much: support this proposal. This will show that the health of people and their basic vital needs are to our heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u135	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Do we have any lines? I can't see. To speak, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I'll try to motivate our proposal a little more. These amendments proposed by us in the Law on Value Added Tax in practice aim at reducing the standard tax rate for value added tax on flour, products of flour, meat, milk and eggs, and medicines. Reducing the tax rate for flour and food products from flour, meat, milk and eggs is a measure aimed, first of all, at promoting native agriculture and the food industry. Regardless of the increase in the incomes of the population in recent years, which is extremely insufficient and does not allow domestic consumption to boost domestic production in the food sector, according to the National Statistical Institute, average consumption per capita has decreased slightly over the past ten years. Next, the motive is to ease the effect of increasing energy prices, which leads to an increase in the cost of producers because, against the background of low demand, the increase in cost in the food industry is further shrinking trade turnover. There is an objective reality to shorten proceedings and thus to aggravate the financial situation of this entire sector. Last but not least, a reduction in the price of goods of primary necessity, such as bread, products and flour and some other essential products for people, is the income spillage of the population, which deepens to unseen sizes. According to the National Statistical Institute, the amount of income of just under 34,000 rich Bulgarians is equal to the income of all the other nearly three million workers. At the same time, the ageing population in the country relies increasingly on pensions instead of business or wages. With this reduction in the rate of value added tax on these basic food and raw materials groups, we aim not only to make them available to a wider range of people, but also to make the food and processing industry more attractive to investors. We will stimulate Bulgarian producers to search for new technologies and produce products with higher added value instead of exporting raw materials. I think that such an approach will make production in these sectors more competitive, which will provide prerequisites for the creation of new jobs in agriculture in high-mountain and depopulated areas. In terms of reducing the VAT rate for medicines, the reason is that their prices in Bulgaria compared to Europe are one of the highest levels of drug prices. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u137	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u138	Reducing the value added tax rate for medicines will lead to more opportunities for drug policy impact. It is now the fact that often free sale prices in pharmacies are almost equal to what the patient should pay after a partial discount that is borne by the Health Insurance Fund. The patients in Bulgaria pay too much at their own expense and these are not my claims, but facts mentioned in several World Bank reports. The share of pharmaceutical costs from us reached 38%, with 25% on average for the European Union. This, of course, is at the expense of hospital and outpatient care and, accordingly, again on these reports, 81% of the costs of medicines are paid from the patient's pocket. How will this affect the state budget? In our view, the revenue from the VAT budget on medicines will be smaller, but also the budget expenditure on medicines will be smaller, i.e. the effect on the budget will be close to zero. However, this will provide more opportunities for the Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Health to influence the drug market. The criticism on the occasion of the proposal is as follows: the reduction in VAT rates for food and medicines and in general for essential goods are applied throughout the European Union and are normal European practice. Of all 28 countries, 19 have introduced differentiated rates. The usual difference between the low VAT rates and food medicines in Europe, total for the European Union, is one to four, only in Bulgaria there is an imbalance. The rate of VAT is among the highest in Europe, the scale of our economy is among the lowest, and the population is the poorest. The reluctance to differentiate consumption tax not only is not a long-term guarantee of raising revenue in the budget, but hence the sustainability of the financial system, but also drives us away instead of bringing us closer to the other European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u139	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? Any other speeches? Mr. Gechev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u140	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to make a few brief clarifications. Yes, with the reduction of VAT on medicines, some say budget revenues are being reduced, and the colleague explained that budget expenditure will also decrease, as a significant proportion of medicines are being paid at the expense of the budget through the NHIF. But there is another important economic point: where is it said that budget revenues will decrease? The money saved by medicines from Bulgarian families will go to buy other goods. It's just that the VAT revenue won't come through the meds, but it'll come through the other groups. It is not true that some colleagues argued that if the VAT on medicines and other essential goods were to be reduced, this could increase the profits of suppliers rather than affect prices. This is absurd, as differentiated VAT rates are applied throughout Europe. By the way, to clarify: only two countries do not have differentiated rates, apart from tourism, these are Bulgaria and Denmark. For your information, all 26 other countries have three, four scales of VAT for different groups of goods: basic groceries, medicines, children's goods. This is mass practice in the European Union and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. So, when countries act as a market regulator, neither in Germany, nor in France, nor in Italy, nor in the United States, where the sales rates are also differentiated, it is not VAT, but a sales fee... does not have such an effect to increase profit at the expense of the prices of the goods. Since prices of goods are falling everywhere when VAT is reduced, we will be able to realise economic and social effects. Of course, moving the costs of medicines in the direction of other groceries was explained that it would have a beneficial effect on the solvent demand of Bulgarian families. To conclude, honourable Members, there is no way to rejoice when budget revenues grow at the expense of the health of the Bulgarian people. Isn't it paradoxical to be glad that the more sick we and our family members are, the bigger the budget revenues?! This is extremely immoral and unacceptable! That is why the majority of nations around the world are oriented towards a differentiated rate. We again offer you nothing more than European experience, which, of course, also has social effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u141	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 125 MPs: 41, against 50, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs in the part not supported by the Commission. They voted 125 MPs: 13, against 63, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 17 by importer, which shall become § 30. Vote 128 MPs: 91, against 32, abstention 35. The motion is accepted. Please continue, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u142	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 18, which becomes § 31, with the words "Paragraph 17, p. 3s are replaced by the words "Paragraph 30, t. The words "Paragraph 17" are published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 12s are replaced by the words "Paragraph 30s, t. 13.................................................................................. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 19, which becomes § 32, with the words "Paragraph 17, p. 13s are replaced by the words "Paragraph 30, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 20, which becomes § 33, with the words "advancing, complementary building, reconstruction, main renovation and/or "suppliing' being replaced by "supplied'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21, which shall become § 34. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23 which shall become § 36.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u143	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I will put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 18 which becomes § 31 with the proposal for replacement in the text by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 19 which becomes § 32 with the proposal for replacement in the text made by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 20 which becomes § 33 with the proposal for replacement in the text made by the Commission and the text of the importer for paragraphs 21, 22 and 23 which become paragraphs 34, 35 and 36 respectively. They voted 121 MPs: for 89, against 12, abstention 20. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u144	Under § 24, there is a proposal made by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be read in conjunction with the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 37 and shall propose the following version: § 37. In the Law on excises and tax warehouses (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 t. 25 letter in the words "Campione ditalia and the Italian waters of Lake Lugano" are deleted. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20, para. 2 t. 6 is amended as follows: It's six. the removal from a tax warehouse of excise goods coated with Banderol, except where: (a) the goods shall be transported to another tax warehouse of the same authorised warehousekeeper and after authorisation of the Director of the Customs Agency in accordance with the rules of application of the law; (b) cigarettes and tobacco shall be transported by hand to a tax warehouse which is subject to duty-free trade in the cases referred to in art. 18, para. 3 of the Law on Duty-Free Trade and after authorisation of the Director of the Territorial Directorate for the Location of the Tax Warehouse, from which the goods will be taken, in order laid down by the Rules for the Implementation of the Law. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 2 words by para. 1, t. The following points are inserted after the second paragraph of Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 1, t. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following (b) point 3 is repealed. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 3 are created t. 8-11: It's 8 o'clock. use automated reporting systems that allow real-time control of the quantities of energy products to be obtained and used at the site, as well as the raw materials, the manufactured or stored goods recorded in its request under para. 5; 9. independently and on its own ensure the internet access of the customs authorities to automated reporting systems under point 9. 8 in the cases referred to in art. 24, para. 2, p. 4 where energy products falling within CN code 2710 12 to 271020 will be obtained and used at the site; 10. in the cases referred to in art. 24, para. 2, p. 4 uses measuring and checking devices: (a) quantities of energy products falling within CN code 2710 12 to 2710 20, where they are to be obtained at the site; (b) the quantities of energy products falling within CN code 2710 12 to 2710 20 at the places where they enter the production plant concerned and/or are put into the production process; (c) the quantities of goods produced to the places where the goods are taken from the premises. 11. the means of measurement and control under point 11. 10 must comply with the requirements of this Law, the Law on Measurements and Regulations for their Implementation. (b) in para. 6: (aa) c. 7 the individualised data of the document in question, on the basis of which information can be established by a service path, shall be added or indicated by reference to the inter-registered exchange environment. (bb) c. 8 the individualised data of the authorisation granted and the administrative authority of issue on the basis of which the information can be established by a service path shall be added or indicated; (c) c. 10 the individualised data of the document concerned and the administrative authority of issue on the basis of which the information can be established by official means shall be added or indicated. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24e, para. 2 shall be added after the word "supplied' from the date of issue. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1, t. 3 after the words "Dnevnik of stock" is added for the licensed warehousekeepers and in the records of the registered persons. (b) the creation of para. 4. For excise goods outside the scope of the regulation under para. 2 until their release for consumption, registered persons do not owe excise duty in the event of losses from natural fires due to a change in physical and chemical properties in the storage and transport of excise goods, and for the application of the law the rules of natural fires established pursuant to Regulation No 13a-10403 on the limits of natural fires, marriage and missing of commodity-material values in their preservation and transport (i.e. SG 13a-10403) ...) and provided that those are defined, reported and recorded in the records of persons in order and manner defined by the Rules of Law Enforcement. 7. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 39b: Art. 39b. (1) The effective rate of proportional excise duty when selling cigarettes under art. 18, al. 3 of the Law on Duty-Free Trade and upon notification of the sale of cigarettes at a price higher than the registered price under the Decree on the terms and conditions for registration of the prices of tobacco products adopted by Decree No 191 of the Council of Ministers of 2004. (prom., D.V., No. ...) is as follows: 1. for cigarettes which have a registered price under the Regulation on the conditions and arrangements for the registration of the prices of tobacco products shall be payable according to the price at which their sale was made but not less than the proportional excise duty due on a registered price; 2. for cigarettes which do not have a registered price under the Regulation on the terms and conditions of registration of the prices of tobacco products, is due according to the price at which their sale was made, but not less than the proportional excise duty due for cigarettes. for 20 shorts. (2) The notification under para. 1 shall be submitted by the licensed warehousekeeper who has also received a licence under the terms and conditions of the Duty-Free Trade Act to the director of the territorial directorate of the location of the site. The notification shall be submitted in advance but not later than 7 days from the date on which cigarettes will be sold at a higher price than the registered one and shall contain information on: 1. details of the person - name, EIC; 2. names of the representative; 3. address of the object; 4. a trademark of cigarettes that will be sold at a price higher than their registered price; 5. a date from which the relevant trade mark will be sold to cigarettes and indicates the relevant price; 6. Signature of the representative. (3) After notification under para. 1 The licensed warehousekeeper, who has also received a licence under the terms and conditions of the Duty-Free Trade Act, is obliged to notify in writing the Director of the competent territorial directorate of any change in the details of the notification of the price at which they will be sold. The notification shall be made in advance but not later than 7 days before the date from which the cigarettes will be sold at another price other than that for which the notification under para. 1 and contains information on: 1. details of the person - name, EIC; 2. names of the representative; 3. address of the object; 4. a trademark of cigarettes that will be sold at their registered price; 5. a date from which the relevant trade mark will be sold to cigarettes and indicates the relevant price; 6. Signature of the representative. (4) One notification under para. 1 and/or under para. 3. (5) The notification under para. 1 and 3 may be submitted electronically in order and manner laid down in the Rules for Law Enforcement. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44, para. 1, t. A sentence 2 shall be created: "In the extension of the period for submitting a declaration, the excise duty due shall be paid within the period within which the debtor was obliged to submit it before the extension of the time limit for submitting the declaration.' 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 47, para. 1 is created t. 11: "11." use a video surveillance and control system that meets the requirements of art. 47b, in the case of production and storage of energy products falling within CN code 2710 12 to 2710 20. 10. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 47b: Art. 47b. (1) The authorised warehousekeepers in the cases referred to in art. 47, para. 1, t. 11 are required to use in tax warehouses a system of video surveillance and control. Video surveillance shall be carried out in compliance with the requirements for the protection of personal data. (2) The system under para. 1 shall provide an opportunity for: 1. real-time visual control; 2. Continuous recording of graphic images [[video images]] on a digital server registrar allowing confirmation of the events occurring (shot); 3. identification of the number for identification of the means of transport. (3) When building the video surveillance and control system, video cameras shall be installed stationary in all places through which the object enters or leaves transport vehicles. The video cameras shall be positioned in such a way as to allow a clear recording of the number for identification of the means of transport without delay, as well as another identification thereof, and shall comply with the requirement of para. 2, p. 3. Data on identification of means of transport shall be sent to the Central Customs Office in order, manner and format defined by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (4) Video cameras under para. 3 and 4 need to be waterproof, have a resolution of not less than 1280x720 pixels and provide effective video surveillance, including in the dark part of the day. Video cameras should have alarm functionality when certain events occur. (5) The video surveillance and control system shall enter and store information on the date and time of the video image, identification and location of the individual video cameras, as well as historical data on the date, time and duration of the interrupted signal between the video camera and the digital recorder and the recorded other alarms. (6) The information on the video surveillance carried out shall be kept on digital recorders for a period of not less than one month. The customs authorities may restrict access to digital registrars under art. 102, para. 3, p. 3. (7) After the expiry of the term under para. 7 the information shall be archived by being kept in the tax warehouse for a period of not less than two months. The customs authorities may make copies of the archive where a longer period for the purposes of control is required to store the information. (8) The construction of the video surveillance and control system shall be agreed with the customs authorities which may give prescriptions and/or test its functionality and effectiveness. The request for coordination of the construction of the video surveillance and control system shall be submitted in order and manner defined by the rules for implementing the law. (9) The video surveillance and control system shall be used in continuous 24-hour operating mode and shall have autonomous power supply for a period of not less than 24 hours. (10) The authorised warehousekeepers shall be required, on their own account, to provide the customs authorities with remote access in real time to the video images and the possibility of a remote review of the information stored in their system under para. 7. (11) The authorised warehousekeepers shall maintain the video surveillance and control system always operational, in accordance with its requirements and shall assist in the unobstructed remote access of the authorities under para. 11. The authorised warehousekeepers shall be obliged to limit and prevent any manipulation or other undue effect on the system and its components. (12) When carrying out checks, authorised warehousekeepers shall be obliged to provide the authorities under para. 11 all stored information from the video surveillance and control system. (13) The conditions and technical requirements for the construction of the video surveillance and control system, as well as the order for making access under para. 11 shall be determined by the rules of application of the law. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) c. 6 the individualised data of the documents issued and the administrative authority of issue on the basis of which the information can be established by a service path shall be added or indicated; (b) c. 6 at the end of the period of validity of the authorisation and the administrative authority on the basis of which the information can be established by service; (c) c. 7 the individualised data of the document concerned, on the basis of which the information can be identified by service route by reference in the inter-re registration exchange environment, shall be added or indicated. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55c, para. 2, p. 1 shall be added at the end, or the individualised data of the documents issued and the administrative authority of issue, on the basis of which the information can be established by official means.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-20.u145	That's it. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this will be the end of the day. The next regular plenary session of 9:00 p.m. on 21 November 2019 under the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
